
 - Mr Speaker, I am pleased that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  is in the House becauseI want to bring to his notice a case which I consider to be one of the worst I have struck in the repatriation field since I have been a member of this Parliament. The Ministers predecessor knew all the details of the case. 1 do not intend to go over all of them tonight. On 28th March 1968I brought to the attention of the Parliament the case of a  Mr M.  M. Medlyn.I mention his name because I have his permission to do so. At that time he was living in my electorate at 51 West Street, Petersham but he is now domiciled at Sussex Inlet. This exserviceman has now become totally blind as a result of an operation performed during the last war. Since his discharge he has been endeavouring to secure a military pension because he believes his loss of eyesight was caused by an operation which was not properly completed. He believes it was due entirely to carelessness. The Repatriation Department has continually refused to give him a pension. 
The previous Minister for Repatriation was good enough to let me look at the file relating to this case. I went through it and in my opinion every element of doubt was decided against the ex-serviceman. It was stated that the loss of sight could have happened through one thing and another but to my mind on every occasion the benefit of the doubt went against the ex-serviceman. Now he is living in almost complete poverty. He is living on an invalid pension. The details of the type of ailment he has in his eyes and their condition is such thatI do not intend to mention them to the Parliament now. It is difficult to describe them and they sound exceedingly dreadful.I want to say to the Minister that this man has written direct to the Minister for Repatriation and the file is available in the Department. Subsequent to a letter he wrote, the Minister wrote back to him and told him that he should call and see the doctor at Sussex Inlet who would explain the circumstances to him.  Mr Medlyn  replied by letter to the Minister. 1 also wrote, on 20th January this year, to the Minister about this case and the letter that  Mr Medlyn  had written to the Minister. In my letter I said: 
I refer particularly to that section of the letter addressed to  Mr Medlyn  in which you suggest he call to see  Dr Waters  and to which  Mr Medlyn  replied to you under date 2.12.1969 stating:  . . as you must know I am totally blind and it is a six mile walk to  Dr Waters'  residence and 1.5 miles to the nearest phone, your request is virtually impossible.' 
I subsequently wrote again to the Minister stating that I thought that the Repatriation Department ought to visit a blind man and not expect him to go that distance. I have since received a telephone call from  Mr Medlyn  giving further details of the tragic state and the tragic condition in which he is living. In a telephone conversation, to me  Mr Medlyn  finished by saying: T cannot get a guide dog because my income could noi feed it.' The cost of feeding a guide dog would be between $7 and $8 a week. 1 have mentioned these details relating' to the facts of this case once again because I believe they represent an absolute injustice to an ex-serviceman. Merely to give him a paltry invalid pension now that he- has lost his sight because - from the facts available to me - of an operation performed iri the course of. his military duties, is, to my mind, a scandalous state of affairs. ] made this statement in this Parliament on several occasions to the previous Minister for Repatriation. I have informed  Mr Medlyn  that until such time as a military pension is granted I will continue to raise his case again and again because I believe it has been  treated  unjustly. This Government is asking men to fight and die in Vietnam at this moment. It says it is necessary to conscript men in order to protect this country. Yet at this very time a man who has lost probably the most valuable asset in life, his eyesight, is now unable even to afford a guide dog because his income is so low.  His  domestic circumstances have been affected. He sacrificed a garage to enter the forces and now is living in poverty as an invalid pensioner. Surely when the Government can spend $27m in order to subsidise the primary producers and others it can spend a couple of dollars a week to give a reasonable pension to an ex-serviceman who has lost his eyesight. 1 repeat what I have said before in this Parliament: Some of these Repatriation Tribunals ought to be tossed out lock stock and barrel because their members have become case hardened. If some of the ex-servicemen serving on Tribunals have become case hardened the Government should put a few civilians on them who might be more sympathetic to people like  Mr Medlyn  who have given their all in the service of this country. 1 do not blame the present Minister over this. I know he is a sympathetic person and that naturally he must be guided by what his departmental officials or his tribunals put forward. However I suggest that he look at this file. There were several points in this case on which I could have given the benefit of the doubt to this ex-serviceman rather than require him at all stages io prove his case to the hilt. 1 know' that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is aware of this case but I think the case bears repeating again and again until something is done about it This man is now . in the Royal' Prince Alfred Hospital suffering, the intense pain and agony associated with this kind of an ailment yet he is getting nowhere with the Repatriation Department. He has been knocked back again and again, lt is bad enough for a . man " who can walk and see to be continually told to see this Department or appear at the tribunal but to tell this to a blind man and to expect him to do this continually is something which I do not think the Minister or the Government would tolerate if they really understood the circumstances. 
I raised this matter tonight because I hope the Minister will sympathetically look into it. The case is under discussion now. 1 suggest to the Minister that he should have a good look at the man who told him ro tell a blind man to walk 6 miles to visit a doctor. This is quite unsympathetic treatment. I think the case has been flippantly put aside. 1 repeat again that a long overhaul is due in the Repatriation Department in regard to tribunals if this is the type of treatment being meted out to ex-servicemen. When all is said and done, this man is receiving an invalid pension and he is now pretty well on in years. The cost involved in paying the difference between the invalid pension and that to which he is entitled hardly would be noticeable. If this poor man passed on the Minister might find that his wife probably would get a pension at that belated stage. I have seen cases which I thought were not nearly as bad as this where pensions have been granted. The reasoning of these things is sometimes difficult to follow. 
I repeat that the Minister has the file available to him. I have supplied the name of this man. I suggest that the Minister give special attention to this case because it is one of the most genuine and deserving cases I have struck. As I said earlier I have been in this Parliament for a long time and the treatment given to  Mr Medlyn  by the Repatriation Department is one of the greatest injustices I have seen. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to a report that  President  Nixon will shortly announce the withdrawal of further American forces from Vietnam? If so, will he give a definite undertaking to the House, in accordance with Government policy of going all the way with the USA', that Australian troops will be brought home with a minimum of delay? If not, will he also state what justification, if any, there is for the risk of one more Australian life in Vietnam at a time when the Americans are evacuating? 
At this stage I would like to say just a few words in reference to the Agreement. The Opposition welcomes the signing of this Agreement which has been outlined in some detail by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr 
Lynch). In the first place, I take it that the Agreement is broadly the same as the ones applying to most countries with which we have agreements for assisted passages. This Agreement does cement the relationship with a country which the Minister said has already given to us over 100,000 people of whom 74% have seen fit to be naturalised That in itself shows that not only are they establishing themselves but also they are undoubtedly prepared to accept the responsibilities of a new country. This is very desirable. Therefore, we welcome the signing of the Agreement and pay our tribute also - in the manner of the Minister - to the zeal, the energy and the ability they have displayed in industry and in their various vocations. The Agreement also represents, as the Minister has said, a completely new depature by the Government in furtherance of the immigration programme in that it is the first agreement with a Communist country. I do not say this in any way facetiously but this is not the. first time that the Government has seen fit to go to Communist countries when the necessity arose as in trade and other matters - with which we do not agree. It is now a good thing to see the Government, with the urge to get migrants and with certain avenues drying up, looking further afield and not discriminating politically against the countries from which migrants might come. In that respect this is a desirable approach and undoubtedly from what we have seen of the types of migrants who have come to Australia these new migrants will be very desirable citizens. 
I note that the Government has a say in who shall and who shall not come to Australia from Yugoslavia but it is to be hoped that the Government is extremely tolerant in respect of political reports on people who might come. I would not like to think that political activities will be a tremendous factor in denying entry to people who will probably be good citizens because we on this side have certain views in regard to appeals and matters of that nature which are not yet accepted by the Government. We would not like to see political activities held against people without a proper inquiry being held in public or without the right of appeal. The signing of this Agreement with a Communist country is a new approach by the Government and, as the Minister said, it opens new avenues. It will be interesting to see what arrangements are made with other countries, probably of similar political persuasion, by this Government. I note also that the State governments have all approved of the Agreement. I take it that they approve of all agreements and in that respect this Agreement is to be no different from any other. I also note from the Agreement that the military provisions apply in accordance with the National Service Act and, of course, it is somewhat regrettable from our point of view that that Act applies at all in respect of conscription. In fact, we oppose it and I hope it will not be long before the Government is able, by legislation, to remove that provision completely from the Agreement because we believe that that Act should be repealed as it applies to conscription not only of migrants but also of Australian citizens. 
There has been and, I hope, generally will be full and constructive support of the immigration programme by both sides of the Parliament. It is inevitable that a scheme which was started by the Australian Labor Party when in office should have the support generally of members of both sides of the Parliament but inevitably there must be differences with respect to administration and approach. The fundamentals of the scheme and what it means to Australia have never been denied by members on this side of the House or, 1 believe, by members on the other side. Therefore this Agreement signed with the Yugoslav Government takes us another step forward in a scheme which has brought to this country the best part of 2.5 million people, I understand. With horizons still to be reached and with greater difficulty in getting migrants this Agreement represents a step which, in this age, had to be taken and it is one of which we approve. I do not wish to say more at this stage other than that we welcome the Agreement. 
I have read in the Minister's speech the compliments paid to the Yugoslav people who are here. I have no doubt that they will continue to contribute to the welfare and development of this country. I see also in the Agreement that the Minister has stated that the qualification of tradesmen is a factor not confined to Yugoslavia and I am hopeful that ultimately we can solve that problem in our interests and in the interests of those who desire to come here. I again commend the action of the Government in signing this Agreement and join in the tributes that have' been paid to those who are here and to those who will come, and trust that we will be successful in adding to the numbers whom we want to make citizens - be they skilled or unskilled - and who can add to our development and expansion through the furtherance of this Agreement. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I wish to make a few comments on what has been said so far by supporters of the Government. If Burchett is not entitled to an Australian passport for the reasons which have been given by every supporter of the Government who has spoken, he should be charged with treason. Honourable members on this side of the House want to know why, if the charges which have been made tonight by honourable members opposite are believed to be true, the Government is not prepared to lay a charge against him when he is within its jurisdiction. It is not a question of defending Communists or anything of that nature. The principle involved in this issue is the refusal of a passport to a certain person. The Government has stated that the grounds for refusal are his treasonable activities in relation to Australian forces. If that is the case the Government is charged with allowing to go free a man whom it believes to be guilty of treason and against whom the only thing it will do is refuse him a passport. 
Let us take the last speaker, the Minister for Social Services. I have never seen him better at chasing the Corns since the days when he was trying to get into the Ministry. Tonight he was in full flight again. He is much better at chasing Corns on this issue, I would imagine, than he is at administering social welfare. If he had half the enthusiasm there that he has shown on this issue we would have the best social services in the world. He is the same Minister who sponsors the selling of wheat to China. He does not mind wool going to Russia. He did a Burchett in his time, too, because his Government sent war materials to the enemy by sending strategic metals, chemicals and tallow and things of that kind to Red China in days gone by. This Government could be indicted on the same charge as it makes against Burchett. It traded with the enemy, it sold the enemy strategic materials. Australian servicemen were blown up in Vietnam by explosives made from tallow shipped to China by this Government. That was not stopped until the Labor Party raised the matter in this House. I do not see how the Minister for Social Services, making the charges that he has made in this House and expressing his willingness to repeat them outside it, can remain a supporter of the Government and a member of the Ministry. I challenge him now to resign his portfolio as a proof of his sincerity in respect of the charges that have been made. Tonight he stated that he believed Burchett was treasonable, that he would make the charges outside the Parliament, that he would do what he believes to be right and expose this man to the public, in the Parliament and outside. If that is the case how can this man, if he values his self-respect, remain in a Cabinet that refuses to prosecute a man whom he believes to be guilty of treason. The only respectable thing that the Minister for Social Services can do, if he honestly believes what he said, is tender his resignation from a government that refuses to prosecute a man whom he, the AttorneyGeneral and the Prime Minister say is guilty of treason to this country. I challenge him to prove his sincerity on this issue, to tender his resignation and let us see where he stands. 
The Government of the day had a lot to say about Burchett before he came to this country, but now that he is within its jurisdiction it accuses the man of all kinds of charges but refuses to prosecute them in court. As the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said, you can go around saying that you know somebody murdered someone, or knocked somebody down or otherwise assaulted him. But such a statement does not prove a thing. Many a man who may well have committed murder has escaped the law because the offence has not been able to be proved in court. Every man is entitled to a trial. No government has been guilty of more infamous conduct than this discredited administration which charges a man with treason, refuses him a passport on that ground, and refuses to set up an inquiry or charge him in a court of law and give him the opportunity to clear his name. That kind of justice went out with the Ark. There is no place for it in this country. 
The Attorney-General is an eminent Queen's Counsel. I have often said I think he must have made a fortune losing cases if this is the kind of judgment he brings forward. The fact of the matter is that he knows the man is entitled to a trial and yet he, an eminent Queen's Counsel, highly paid and highly skilled in the law, one who should be here to protect the rights of the citizens, stood in this Parliament at question time today and said that a man was guilty of treason but he, the senior man in the Department which administers the law, was not prepared to lay a charge against him in this country. That is scandalous and contemptible conduct of the worst kind. I care not what side of politics a man stands on - whether he be right, left or centre, Communist, Liberal or anything else - he is entitled to a trial. If the Government allows this kind of thing to occur it will become the laughing stock of the world and be completely discredited in the eyes of all who believe in justice. 
So let the Minister at the table stand tonight and tell us not why Burchett has not been given a passport but why he has not been charged so that the Government may prove that what it says is right. This is what the Minister must stand up to. I am reminded of an article about passports that appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' a couple of days ago. The article stated: 
In medieval times English monarchs exercised Royal control over travel papers mainly to prevent unco-operative priests treading the High Road to Rome. 
Today it appears, the Australian Government can exercise the same prerogative, with equally limited rights of appeal, to stop or discourage left-wingers (or right wingers) treading the road to Moscow, Hanoi or Salisbury. 
The article goes on to say that a more uptodate assessment on the issue of passports was made recently by the Professor of English Law at Oxford University, Professor H. W. R. Wade, who said: 
The modem type of passport is said to have been invented by Louis XIV. Too much of his technique seems to hare stuck to it. 
This Government is following that practice today. I cited today that it is the right of every man to receive a passport unless it can be proved that he is not entitled to it. I will just summarise the position. If the charges made against Burchett are true - I refer to the charges which are given as the reason for denying him a passport - there is no place for him in society as honourable members have said. He should pay the penalty for those crimes. But he is innocent until he is proved to be guilty. I had never thought that I would see these circumstances arise in this Parliament in which this Government has refused to lay charges of treason after suggesting that a man has committed treason. I had never believed that in this enlightened age. when we boast of our independence and freedom in this country, we would hear a Minister stand up and say that a man had acted treasonably and that he would repeat the charge outside the House, yet still support a Ministry which will not prosecute that man whom the Minister has quite truthfully said in his mind is guilty of treason. 
It is no wonder that the Government nearly lost the last election. It is no wonder that it is on the way out. Who would put up with this kind of administration? You will not give justice to people and you will not protect their legal rights. You deserve to be condemned. I hope you will stand up at this stage and explain why a man you say is guilty of treason should not be charged and at the same time think you can maintain your self-respect in this country. 
1 want to say a few words about the Bill and particularly the comments of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  This Bill relates to the wheat industry and on questions relating to wheat the honourable member for Mallee is a man who displays some remarkable changes of front. I listened to his comments a moment ago about the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  At this time last year he described the Minister as a messenger boy of whom nobody took notice. Today the honourable member has been telling us that the Minister, who last year he described as a messenger boy, is the be-all and end-all of the scheme designed to save the Government from its failure in the field of wheat stabilisation and wheat marketing. 
Also, rarely have 1 heard such a bitter attack on a colleague as that launched by the honourable member for Mallee against the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  who, when all is said and done, is the most knowledgeable man on the Country Party side in respect of wheat. The honourable member for Moore is one who saw the value of the argument advanced by the honourable members for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in regard to the question of interest. The matter of interest cannot be so flippantly dismissed as the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  the  Deputy  Whip of the Liberal Party, dismissed it a few moments ago. The question of the rate of interest is extremely vital. Even the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  will not give an assurance that the interest rate will not rise again and again and there will be no terms within the scope of the legislation to cover the full extent of the interest. The matter was raised by the honourable member for Moore who is, as I said, very knowledgeable in this field. Those honourable members on the Government side who seek to cast aside this important aspect of the Bill are just begging the question. 
Let us face the facts. The Country Party has put the wheat growers into a hell of a mess. It has been supported by the Liberal 
Party. Now, by means which the honourable member for Moore condemned in this Parliament, any means at all, it is trying to prove that it is saving the farmers. The Government is getting wheat growers further into the mire, as it were, because at one time when we should not have been growing the great quantities of wheat that were being grown, the Minister for Primary Industry, whom the honourable member for Mallee described as a messenger boy, told people in the wheat growing areas to grow more wheat. 
Tonight,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I do not wish to say more, except to place on record again the machinations of the honourable member for Mallee. When he sat on the Opposition side of this Parliament and the Australian Labor Party was the Government, the honourable member always was against schemes to assist wheat growers and wool growers simply because the Australian Labor Party suggested them. Now that he is sitting on the other side of the fence, the honourable member is doing everything that he said he would not do when he was on this side of the Committee simply because he has changed places with us. lt grieves me at times to hear his bitter attacks on members of his own Party such as the Minister for Primary Industry. It grieves me to see him trying to bolster up a scheme by an attack on one of his own colleagues in such a bitter way today. The questions that we have raised concerning the matter of interest cannot be discarded in the way in which the honourable member for Maltee, the  Deputy  Whip of the Liberal Party, the honourable member lor Angas and the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  have attempted to do. Let us have the facts. Let us not have any more hypocrisy in regard to this matter. 
 I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  Commendable as are the terms of reference proposed by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  the crux of the matter, particularly in New South Wales, is the location of airports. If ever I heard a case made for supporting the amendment it was the argument advanced by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  Having suggested that Brisbane Airport be re-located between the City of Brisbane and the Gold Coast he surely will not vote against the amendment. He has put forward an argument which supports the argument advanced from this side of the House - that the Committee's investigations are practically useless unless it is empowered to investigate the siting of airports. 
Let me refer to the situation in my electorate. I have it on the best authority that shortly before the last elections the Government was so concerned about the effects of aircraft noise in the electorates of St George and Barton, then held by members of the Liberal Party, that it directed that aircraft should avoid flying over those electorates and instead operate over the electorate of Grayndler. This was done in an effort to weaken my hold on the electorate. I will give figures to show how successful the Government was in its endeavour, but it still could not save the former members for those seats, who were replaced by the brilliant honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  and the distinguished honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  The Government's sinister move did not have the desired effect in Grayndler and did not hold St George and Barton for the Liberal Party. 
My electorate has about 125,000 people. Many of them are already in the condition which the honourable member for Griffith forecast for the Minister - elderly and in failing health. They enjoy their television and their radio, but the zoom of jets flying overhead has practically destroyed their health and welfare and the enjoyment they obtain in their old age from such things as television and radio. I have received from a constituent of mine a letter which reads: 
In a local paper you are reported to have lodged a complaint that the Aircraft Noise Committee is not hearing evidence from the Marrickville area. If some of the Committee lived under the beam guiding planes to Mascot they might have second thoughts. I have lived at this address for 35 years come May 23rd and have had the quiet and convenience of being near the city. The past few months have completely changed life here. It is not possible to have a sustained conversation, to make oneself heard and to be heard in local shops. Worst of all, at the hours when one would reasonably hope to see and hear a TV programme it is almost impossible for some months now. Not one programme can be heard, due only to planes going almost directly over my house at such frequent intervals. The attached page lists the times of planes over here in my viewing hours. The noise precludes hearing a word from the TV for from 5 to 13- seconds with each fly-over. I am 74 on 4th March and was on Gallipoli at 19 years (a sergeant 10th Battalion) and served in New Guinea for over a year when 49, so I have perhaps some reason to be allowed some peace and maybe pleasure in my declining years. Everyone 1 have spoken to complains about the almost deafening noise and its frequency. Only by those in your position can the seriousness of loss of sleep and pleasure too be brought home to the Committee, and 1 am sure the many pensioners even within 100 yards of my home will back you up. 
This gentleman then lists the times at which aircraft passed over his home, and later 1 may ask permission of the House to incorporate the list in Hansard. However, 1 have extracted some details from that list. He said that on Friday, 20th February, between the hours of 6.15 p.m. and 7.45 p.m., a period of 90 minutes, 12 planes passed over his house. That is 1 in about every 8 minutes. On the same day between 7.45 p.m. and 9.55 p.m., a period of 130 minutes, planes passed overhead on an average of 1 every 9 minutes. On Saturday, 21st February between 6 p.m. and 7.30 p.m., a period of 90 minutes, 9 planes went overhead, 1 every 10 minutes. This proves the accuracy of the information I got that planes were directed over my constituency undoubtedly for political purposes. It has a real bearing on what this gentleman said. The areas of Leichhardt, Stanmore, Petersham, Sydenham, Marrickville, Newtown, Tempe, St Peters, Dulwich Hill and Annandale are suffering because of the failure of the Goverment to do something about the problem or take action such as that referred to in the the amendment that has been moved today. I do not want the planes re-directed back over the electorates of Barton and St George because the people there are entitled to comfort, but why cannot the planes come in over the sea to Mascot? If that is not possible with an aerodrome in the situation that Mascot is in, is that not a case for accepting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle in order that the Committee may investigate the re-siting of the aerodrome? 
Recently I had a telephone call from the headmaster of Newington College. He said that planes were flying so low over the school that they were completely disorganising lessons and the running of the school. He said that it was practically impossible to teach and to make full use of the school's educational facilities. T had a telephone call from the Reverend Hawkins of Leichhardt. He was honoured by  Her  Majesty the Queen for his services to the aged, sick and others in the community. He said that because of the passage of aircraft overhead the health of persons in the homes for the elderly that he conducts at Leichhardt was suffering. Something must be done about the position and unless it is done he does not know what will be the ultimate effects on those people. Not only are individuals but schools and aged persons homes are being affected because aerodromes have been sited close to residential areas. This is a difficult problem to solve when aircraft come into Mascot but it could bc solved if the aerodrome were re-sited in another area. In America and other parts of the world major airports have been relocated. 
I hope that the Minister will not discard the amendmentt, The Committee can do commendable work but it needs more teeth and the amendment proposes a fundamental approach to the problem. I hope that the Minister will accept the amendment, thus giving an indication of his good intentions. I do not want to say much more about the matter. I think that I have been a pioneer in respect of aircraft noise in Australia. I raised the matter in the Parliament almost 20 years ago when I complained about low flying planes at Mascot. Everybody laughed, although aircraft noise was a problem then. At that time buses and trams were probably making as much noise as aircraft but  now,  with jet aircraft, noise has become a major problem. Tt was a problem 20 years ago when planes were coming in low and  endangering  life. limb,  and  comfort. 1 suggested then that noise would ultimately be a real problem  and  that a committee  such  as the one we are now discussing might investigate the matter. 
I should like to hear from the Minister a good explanation why the amendment will not be accepted. It is practical  and  reasonable. No matter what complaints I and other members mav Ion's.? in the Parliament, at some  time  Parliament will have to consider re-siting aerodromes in Australia, but at this stage the Government should be not only investigating where aerodromes should be sited but also giving the proposed Committee, which has many knowledgeable men on it, the opportunity to investigate sites. Irrespective of what recommendations the Committee may make concerning the technical aspects of noise, it should be able to ascertain whether aerodromes are in the right position or whether they should be re-sited to remove many of the aspects of airport operations that are distressing people. 
I do not think that this is a political problem. Far be it for me to raise politics on a matter like this; not for one minute would I do so. But I cannot help saying that the Government has been exceedingly dilatory in this matter. If it rejects the amendment it will be playing politics in a real way. Let us face it, there is a united Parliament on this question. We all have people to protect. The people administering schools are seeking protection. People in charge of rest homes and hospitals seek protection. It is the responsibility of all of us to do our best for them and our best cannot be done effectively, no matter what our intentions, unless the Committee has the right to investigate where aerodromes should be re-sited and bring down a recommendation and see that it is carried out by the appropriate Minister from whichever side of politics he may come. Therefore, in a nonpolitical and I hope constructive and practical way, I put my submission to the Parliament. I hope that the Minister will see fit to accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle. 
 I do not want to refer to the subject that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  has just raised. I want to take the House back to the debate on the case of Burchett that took place in this House on 5th and 6th March. The Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  explained why the Government would not prosecute a man who it had accused of treason. At page 193 of Hansard he is reported as having said: 
First of all I would deal with the last point raised by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  He asked me, in effect, about Burchett's activities in Vietnam and whether anything could be done about them. The answer is that under the law as it presently stands - that is, the Crimes Act which now has an extra-territorial operation - a prosecution for the offence of treachery or the offence of treason cannot be mounted unless the war is a proclaimed war and there is a proclaimed enemy. Those conditions are certainly not- 
I ask the Attorney-General to say now whether this means that under the law as it stands at present a person who goes to Vietnam and commits treasonable activities against the Australian forces engaged there is free from prosecution because this is an undeclared war and is not a proclaimed war against a proclaimed enemy. Does it mean that, so long as a person does not commit murder, a crime with which he could be charged, as the law now stands he can make his way to Vietnam, blow up troop establishments, sabotage our forces and engage in treasonable activities, yet be completely free from any charge? 
If this is the position, is it not scandalous that people who demonstrate against this unproclaimed war are bundled into a police van, fingerprinted, photographed and treated like criminals? If a person cannot be prosecuted for treasonable activities in Vietnam, on what ground is the Government imprisoning people who in Australia refuse to present themselves for national service because they do not want to fight in an unproclaimed war or against an unproclaimed enemy? On what ground does the Government justify fining and imprisoning people who refuse to register for national service in this country because they believe they will be called upon to fight against an unproclaimed enemy in an unproclaimed war? Is it not amazing that, according to the Attorney-General, a person can commit treachery or treason and go completely free because this is not a proclaimed war against a proclaimed enemy, while another person who has the courage of his convictions can spend up to 2 years in prison because he does not believe in fighting in that unproclaimed war? Similarly, a person who demonstrates outside the Prime Minister's Lodge is photographed, the photograph is kept for all time and he can be placed on a list that may result in his being refused a job at some time. Even at this time people in this Territory are being charged with offences when they engage in demonstrations and subsequently they are convicted. 
Apparently the law applies to persons who commit minor offences but not to persons who commit treason. Persons who commit treason can go their hardest; the Government does not care. All it wants is the opportunity to blackguard such people and to utter smears against them. However, they go completely free. On the other hand the poor person who protests, refuses to register or has a conscientious objection to the war does his time the hard way in Pentridge, Long Bay or somewhere else because of the policy of this Government. It is scandalous that, in this situation, some people are in prison, others are facing charges and action is being taken against people who have the courage of their convictions and protest against this unproclaimed war while people who go to Vietnam and sabotage our efforts are allowed to go completely free. It is no wonder that great dissatisfaction is evident in some quarters. 
I would like the Attorney-General, who is now at the table, to explain what he intends to do about the law. If the position is as 1 believe it to be, I think the people in gaol should be released immediately, no more prosecutions should be launched and the Government should not take the strong action that it does against people who demonstrate against this unproclaimed, undeclared war. Therefore, I raise this matter tonight. I am not much interested in what the honourable member for La Trobe has raised, because he is always talking about these things.  His  reactionary approach to these problems does not help anybody concerned with them. He places the wrong interpretation on matters and does not present the facts in the correct light. Then be seeks to have something done about them. 
I raise these matters tonight in the hope that the Attorney-General will answer them. I refer him particularly to his statement on Sth March, which appears on page 193 of Hansard, in which he gave the reasons why a person whom government supporters had declared in the most smearing way to be guilty of treason could not be prosecuted under the law as it stands. It is a public and national scandal that men are in gaol for not registering for national service because they do not want to serve in the war in Vietnam. Demonstrations against the war have been stopped in the most vicious way by the Government, which is endeavouring to suppress the dissent against the war that exists in the community. Yet persons can commit acts of treason against our servicemen in Vietnam and can evidently go completely free. I ask the Attorney-General whether he will give u.s the benefit tonight, completely free of charge, of his knowledge of the law, of which he boasts so much in this Parliament. Let him wriggle out of this unproclaimed and undeclared war proposition and tell u.s why a man can commit treason and go free when another man cannot protest against the war or refuse to register for national service without being placed in gaol. 
These matters are probably treated lightheartedly by the Attorney-General but it is not a lighthearted matter to spend a couple of years in Pentridge Gaol, Long Bay Gaol or somewhere else for offences concerned with a war which the Government says does not exist and which, for that matter, should not exist. I raise this matter because I believe it requires an explanation. Perhaps the Attorney-General will tell us whether he intends to amend the law or whether he intends to allow it to remain as it stands. It is all very well for the honourable member for La Trobe to get up here and attack trade unionists and others who have led the fight against this unjust war in Vietnam. He sits idly by and sees boys go to gaol because they will not serve in this undeclared and unproclaimed war. He never raises one word of protest in the Parliament. In other words, his role is merely to decry trade unionists and others who are putting up the fight that all fair people in this country should be putting up against this Government's policy in regard to Vietnam. 
Instead of giving us a lecture or asking for some action to be taken against trade unionists and others, the honourable member for La Trobe ought to ask the Government to withdraw its forces from Vietnam. Practically all nations are demanding that we get right out of that part of the world. The honourable member for La Trobe is no doubt well able to defend himself. Apparently he wields certain power in the Government, which is now tottering on the edge of defeat because of its limited numbers. I would like him to display more of the courage he showed earlier today on that momentous occasion when he voted for the Australian Labor Party's amendment to the motion to re-appoint the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. I would like to see him cross the floor and vote with the Labor Party on a national issue seeking the withdrawal of forces from Vietnam. The honourable member for La Trobe and other rebels on the other side of the Parliament have an opportunity to show their courage. The courage that they say it takes to fight in Vietnam can be exemplified in a smaller way in this Parliament by voting with the only Party that can do anything for the Australian people and put an end to the Vietnam war. T refer of course to the Australian Labor Party. 
I hope that those rebels opposite who want to take a rise out of the Government will do so during the course of this Parliament. It is no good for honourable members opposite to talk about what ought to be done and what ought not to be done. As the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said in a memorable speech on the Burchett case here the other night, it is a case of put up or shut up. If honourable members opposite do not like what the Government is doing, let them vote against the Government and so defeat it. That will be the test of whether or not they believe in the policies that are being followed by the Government. The honourable member for La Trobe is a happy, congenial though rebellious fellow. He has an amazing arrangement with the Government. He can say anything he likes outside the House as long as he votes with the Government inside the House. Tonight I offer him the opportunity to vote with the Opposition on this issue. Whilst the matter of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise was an important matter, Vietnam is a much more important one. I would like to see him vote with the Opposition on this matter so that men can be released from gaol and justice can be given to those people fighting against an undeclared war. Above all else, I would like the brilliant Attorney-General to give us the benefit of his wisdom and knowledge on just what is the situation with regard to treason in this country. 

 Mr JESS (La Trobe) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to say only a few words on this Bill this afternoon and with my knowledge of the standing orders of the Parliament you may be assured,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that as usual I will stay within the scope of the Bill. I support the Bill because one has to be grateful for the morsels that fall from the rich man's table, and that applies particularly to social services where the Government in bits and pieces, by a method of stop and go and by a patching up system occasionally gives some benefit to this most deserving section of the community. 
The legislation under discussion today gives benefits to a very deserving section of people who are suffering in poverty in many cases because of their low incomes and the high cost of living. But it is significant that only the very minimum is given to the most deserving, as exemplified in this Bill. Why, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  did not even tell us in his second reading speech how many persons were involved in a given year - how many would be covered by the legislation. Generally the first thing he says when he introduces legislation in the Parliament is: This will cover 10,000 or 20,000 families or something like that. The Minister well knows that, deserving as the legislation is, it covers only a tiny number of that deserving section of pensioners in the community. Why did he not tell us the cost involved in this measure? lt must be very small or the Minister would have skited about it. 
The fact: of the matter is that so small is this benefit to this deserving section that the Minister will not tell us how many are involved; he will not tell us the cost involved in a full year. Therefore, I would like to hear the Minister express his views on this point because it is terribly important to all concerned. The Government always talks big and acts small. I make passing reference to the fact that the Government introduced a measure for a subsidy on meals, lt said that it would give $1 for every 10 meals. That sounded a lot better than 10c a meal. In other words, the Government misleads, misconstrues and at the same time gives the impression that it is doing a major task but is doing practically nothing at all. 
When legislation was introduced for a married and single rate pension I moved an amendment on behalf of the Opposition that said it was discrimination of the worst type and that there should have been a base rate for all pensioners with people most deserving receiving special assistance. Because of the discrimination between married and single pensioners that this Bill deals with today, the anomaly the Government is trying to remove is one of the many that exist in the legislation. Discrimination of the worst kind, anomalies by the thousand and injustices that are multiplied many times have come from this change in making married and single rates. All rates should have been increased to a substantial base amount and benefits then given to the most needy and not in this piecemeal way. 1 wonder whether the Minister realises that people living in sin today would be better off than if they were to go through the sacrament of marriage. In other words, it has become a penalty to be a decent citizen if one is a married pensioner and carries out one's matrimonial obligations. The Government has now found that this discrimination occasionally has to be relieved. ( had a case covered by this legislation some years ago where a married couple were in a home and their pensions were accordingly reduced because of that. The Bill before the House will overcome this situation; but the anomalous situation arises out of the Government's own legislation. Therefore we find today that the Government has had to introduce an amendment. Is it not amazing that even in the second reading speech the Minister told us that the legislation is to seek out areas of special need and to bring to this House measures to meet those needs'. Why does the Government categorise these poor people? 
We have the aged and the frail aged: the ill and the very ill; the care and the intensive care. We have standard rate and married rate and I suppose there are the sick, the dead, the weakening and the nearly dead. The Government is categorising a section of society instead of having a wide and extensive scheme to cover all aged and sick people, to give them all benefits, whatever category it might say they are in. But in the most mean and contemptible way the Government has put them into sections and categorised them simply because of their disabilities, their want and their need. Yet we are now living in the 1970s and men have landed on the moon. The Minister boasted what he would do for people who wanted social services. He was going to abolish the means test and give to the needy and others all those benefits so necessary. He now brings down legislation in a boastful way but gives no costs, no facts and no numbers of those involved. This piecemeal legislation gives the very minimum to a very deserving section. The Minister, in his second reading speech, gives the record of the Government. He points out: 
The House may be interested in comparative figures showing the Australian position in this regard as compared with the position in certain other countries. 
He referred to pensions - 
This can be measured by expressing the single pension as a percentage of the pensions received by a married couple. This is set out in the following table . .' . 
The Minister said that Australia's single rate as a percentage of the married couple rate is 56.6%. or 64.2% if you like to take in the supplementary assistance. The figure for France is 66.6%. Never in my wildest dreams did I ever think that France would head us off in the field of social1 services. Italy is 90.9%. This is a country that was crushed in a great world conflict and which has arisen from the ashes, as it were. Italy now leads us by roughly 30% in the field of social welfare. We find that the figure for the Netherlands is 70.3%. which is well above the maximum the Government allows of 64.2% in Australia. New Zeal'and is the only country that has dropped behind us and it has a good excuse  - it has a Liberal government, so we cannot expect much to happen there. The figures show that New Zealand is going backwards just as we are going backwards. In Sweden, where the people have had a Labour government for many years, they have a figure of 63% which is above the base amount here without the supplementary assistance. The United Kingdom figure of 58.8% is still above the Australian level. The United States, with due respect to it, was one of the few countries, until the Kennedys came to light which never thought much of social welfare, heads Australia by 12% at 66.6%. That is a damning indictment of the Government's policy - the slip in social welfare in this country after 20 years of administration by it is shown by the fact that we have dropped behind countries that never thought of having a social welfare scheme in days gone by. That is why today I condemn to some extent the Minister for his failure to see that we lead other countries, as we did when Labor was in office, in the field of social welfare and that the needy and the deserving get the assistance to which they are entitled. That is why I would like to see the Minister explain why these piecemeal bits of legislation have been introduced and no effective and extensive scheme has been introduced. 
We took a backward step for years when we discriminated between pensioners. That is why today 1 add my voice of protest, though not so much about what is in the Bill because we should be grateful for what we get from this Government be it great or small, because we will never get anything great in this human field. At the same time I think we have an obligation to pensioners from one end of this country to the other to get up and condemn the Government that spends unlimited funds on everything one can think of except social welfare. Why, if the Government spent in this field alone a fraction of what it has spent on the great plane that will not fly it would be looked upon as the greatest government of our time. 
Today I heard in this Parliament that we are to spend $20,000 a year to spout some water into Canberra's lake to celebrate the discovery of this country some 200 years ago. I bet this Bill does not cover a fraction of the $20,000 that the Government is to spend on a jet or water spout to celebrate Captain Cook's arrival. These things cry to high heaven for some people to wake the Government up about them. Tonight I place on record my condemnation of a government that spends money on all kinds of things but the very minimum on those that really need it. I hope the Minister will have a revival of that rebellious spirit he displayed when he was fighting his way to the front line where he sits today. I would like to see him dc for the people under his control what he promised to do if and when he was in government. But I look somewhat sadly at him. I think the old rebel has died, you know. He is a very tame member today. Consequently those great ideals he expressed have now passed into oblivion. He just goes along the track hoping that a little morsel here and there will please these people and at the same time honour the Government's minimum obligations to the aged and invalid pensioners in this country. 1 know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you realise that not once have I digressed and made remarks outside the scope of this legislation. 1 thank you.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for the understanding way in which you have interpreted the Standing Orders. Having said so much, let  me  again express my support for the measure so far as it goes, although I condemn it for the limits placed upon it.I express the hope that if the Government can find $20,000 a year to spout water into the air to honour Captain Cook it will put some money into pensions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 

 - Mr Speaker, it never ceases to amaze me how a  Speaker  of your wisdom and experience can give such remarkable decisions as that given  a  few minutes ago. 
 Sir, not  for a minute would I reflect on you personally. I want to say that you have ruled, in effect, that the statement of the honourable member for Macarthur that the alternative government were a lot of Communists, is not offensive to honourable members on this side of the Parliament. I pose the question: If the alternative government is not the Australian Labor Party, to whom was the honourable member for Macarthur referring? In effect,  Mr Speaker,  your ruling means that 1 cannot say, for instance, that the Treasurer is an embezzler but I can say that all those on the Government side are - every one of them - and be completely within the Standing Orders.  Mr Speaker,  it gives me no pleasure to say, or to have to say, that all members of the Australian Country Party are hillbillies when I know that only a couple of them are. I just point out,  Mr Speaker,  the sorrow that rulings like this give me. It does not help me at all, either, when I see a cowardly attack made by the honourable member for Macarthur and in order to get redress from this side of the Parliament- 
Very well, I withdraw it but I say that all honourable members opposite make cowardly attacks on honourable members on this side of the Parliament and we have no redress. 
Question (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the question  be  now put. 
Before asking my question,  Mr Speaker,  may I extend to you my personal thanks for giving me the call. I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration and by way of explanation I refer to the entry to and departure from Australia of  Mr Wilfred  Burchett without an Australian passport. Were the passport regulations broken in the case of  Mr Wilfred  Burchett or are the same facilities available to any Australian citizen refused a passport? If so, does it mean that any Australian citizen refused a passport who is able to provide his own transport or travel facilities does not need an Australian passport for entry or departure and on arrival will be made quite welcome? Does it not reduce the value attached to an Australian passport by Australian citizens if entry and departure to Australia may be made without this document? Finally, will the Minister also assure the House that uniform regulations will apply to all Australian citizens without passports and not only to those whom the Government wishes to keep out or desires to send into exile? 
by leave - I agree with the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  that the concession is welcome although it is very qualified and places pensioners again in a very special category. Like other honourable members I have had protests about the restrictions that were placed on pensioner travel and I am pleased to see what has been done. But at the same time I regret that the Government, having done what it has done in regard to pensioners, could not have made this not exactly a perfect scheme but a very fair one and not again categorised them specially as it has under these concessions. On page 2 of his statement the Minister said: 
This concession and the previously introduced intrastate concessions will be available, regardless of their state of residence, to all aged, invalid, widowed and service pensioners who hold a pensioner's medical service entitlement card. 
In other words, there will be at least 150,000 pensioners who came within the scope of the pension scheme after the tapered means test proposals were introduced recently who will not qualify. That is the very minimum number I can think of at this time. So straight off a medical entitlement card is an essential and there will be many, many pensioners who will be disappointed today - some of them receiving a substantial amount of pension - because they will not come within 'the scope of this concession at all. Not only is that approach to this problem regrettable; it is also indefensible. A pensioner should be given the right to travel and should be entitled to the benefits that are available because if we assess the position as it is those receiving pensions are the most deserving section of society and cannot afford to be excluded from the fringe benefits that are so necessary to allow them to enjoy their lives. The honourable member for Newcastle dealt with the second paragraph on page 2 of the statement concerning the time at which they can travel. I agree with him that people in receipt of pensions do not want to be told just when they can travel and when they cannot. Under this proposal, I suppose, the pensioners will be expected to travel at a time when nobody else wants to travel. That probably means that they will have to go to the west in the middle of winter. 
That is correct, but it will not always be the case. 
It is quite unreasonable for pensioners to be told when they can travel and that only then will they be given the concessions. Certainly the trains are booked out but the honourable member for Newcastle has provided an answer that a Labor Government would give. We would put on enough trains so there would not be a waiting list. There is another factor. These days pensioners do not spend all of their time doing nothing. Unfortunately, some do because of disabilities but many like to travel to bowling carnivals and sporting events, depending on their age and their capacity to participate. Let us take a bowling carnival in which numerous pensioners might want to participate. If it is held during a special period they will have to scratch or pay the full fare. So not only does it affect them for holiday purposes but also it restricts the activities which help to. keep them looking young and contented in their old age. A good salesman generally wants to satisfy the customer but the Government, having made a good approach to this, might well have gone to the limit because - let us face the facts of life - if we can spend $20,000 a year to spout water in Lake Burley Griffin we can spend $20,000 to give this concession to pensioners. It may not cost much more than that. Consequently, I suggest that the Minister might review this. When he was Minister for Social Services he showed a progressive approach to the problems of the aged and sick and I am sorry that he has gone back into his shell since he drifted over to transport. I think he might well have shown the fresh approach he endeavoured to show in social services. If he had carried that approach to this portfolio on the question of pensioners it would have been most commendable. 
DrJ.F. Cairns - He has become containerised. 
As the honourable member for Lalor says, the Minister has become containerised. It is regrettable that State boundaries stop us from giving justice to pensioners. The Commonwealth should not only undertake immediately to see that all pensioners can travel throughout the Commonwealth but also honour its responsibility under the Constitution and make the money available to those States which will not or cannot pay the money necessary to provide this concession. I agree with the honourable member for Newcastle that it is a good scheme spoilt by the restrictive processes within it. A means test is imposed. There is a certain time to travel. It almost gets down at some stage to their being ticket of leave men. They almost have to report when they are going and when they want to come back and be not free as are other citizens. 
I object completely to the principle contained in all the social service legislation of this Government. Unfortunately the Minister is now applying it to the transport regu lations in that pensioners are categorised - the sick, the failing, the aged and the frail - and now we have come to those who can travel and those who cannot. As the honourable member for Newcastle said, they will have to put up with the full cost of meals on trains which, I suppose, are the most costly not only in this country but in all countries, or else they will have to take a cut lunch on the Indian Pacific to last 3 days. This is not the way to approach it. Let us make it a good scheme. I hope the Minister will review what has been put forward to him in a constructive way from this side of the Parliament and abolish the means test associated with this and make it a concession that applies throughout the year and let pensioners make their own judgments as to when they will go and take their chances on bookings and reservations. 
That is true. To make it a complete scheme let it apply across all State boundaries. I make those suggestions to the Minister. I again express my pleasure that the letters I have received in protest have been partially answered by the concession that has been given but express again my regret that a scheme that has a good foundation, a good basis and a good objective fails because of the restrictions placed upon it. For the sake of a few dollars out of a huge Budget we could well afford to give a full concession and in that way make everybody happy. Arising out of this we will probably get more complaints than we got before it came in because there will be so many people who cannot travel or cannot qualify or something to that effect. Having said so much, I ask the Minister to take into consideration and give effect to what we have suggested from this side of the Parliament which at least would give the Government a better record in social services in the transport division than it has in other spheres. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  mentioned that he saw a former minister of religion laughing when this important measure was before the House. You, too,  Mr Chairman,  as a former minister of religion did not think your remarks were worth listening to so you voted to gag yourself. It looks to me as though it has been a bad day for ministers. 1 want to pay my tribute and commendation to those who conduct the Meals on Wheels services throughout Australia. I do not underestimate the effect that this Bill will have on that great section of voluntary workers. It does seem though, as honourable members from this side have pointed out, that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  with all his great talk about social justice and what he would do for the people of Australia, has proved that he is a bits and pieces and patch up man in respect of social welfare. lt amazes me to think that under this Bill, to which the Government is attributing a form of greatness, a subsidy of St for every 10 meals is proposed. Why does the Government not refer to 10c. a. meal? Because that sounds as lousy as it is. The actual fact of the matter is that the Government is proposing a subsidy of 10c a meal. Consider what other, expenditure the Government has proposed under the Budget - $7m for one part pf. the wool industry, $27m for another section of the wool industry, $30m for teacher training, SI 2m for an irrigation scheme, $4m for tuberculosis control in cattle herds - and $200,000 for this most deserving section of the community. The Minister is very critical of members of the Opposition when we talk of social welfare. He said that we want to make Australia a real Socialist state and that we want to bring the subject matter under discussion within the scope of Socialist legislation. I remind him that the pioneers of this scheme were the Labor controlled councils of Sydney. This real social welfare scheme was pioneered by people from this side of the Parliament. 
The fact of the matter is, as the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  said, that this Government has never made a survey of what is required in the field of social welfare in respect of Meals on Wheels. 
In his second reading speech the Minister equated the number of meals served with the population. He did this because the Government has made no assessment of just who really wants Meals on Wheels. He has assessed that 2 million meals are delivered in a year. This means that 2 meals a year is all that the Government is prepared to provide to assist a deserving section of the community in Australia. Even now the Government proposes to subsidise this scheme to the extent of onethird only when it says that at least 5 million meals are required. The fact of the matter is that the Minister will not admit that, instead of accepting his responsibility under the Constitution for the welfare of the aged, he is passing the buck onto voluntary institutions from one end of this country to the other. 
Legislation that the Minister has introduced in respect of the States helping in such schemes is dependent upon the Commonwealth giving the States money. The Minister knows that a number of the measures that he has introduced are not working in the States in respect of aged people because the States have not the money, the Minister will not see that it is provided, the schemes are bogged down, and the measures are just so much paper legislation, nothing more or less. The Government believes that people who are in need are not its responsibility. That is why we on this side of the Committee, whilst we accept these measures, are criticising the Minister for not providing adequately for them. 
I listened today when the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  was speaking. He is always boasting about what has been done by this Government in the field of social welfare. He said that if we survived on this side of the Committee he hoped that we would watch the Government do better. I say to the honourable member for Griffith that if he does not do any better than he did the last time, he will have a full time job on the Meals on Wheels campaign - and plenty of time to do it. I am always tired of hearing members of the Government saying what they are doing and what they are not doing in this important sphere. Do honourable members realise that, in 1949 - 21 years ago - this Government promised to abolish the means test? We are still waiting for that to happen. The means test is still imposed. Do honourable members realise also that the Government had a dismal record in this field when it was defeated in 1939? After years of government, honourable members opposite now introduce this scheme. Meals on Wheels is something that they did not start during the earlier years when they were in office. Now, the Government brings down a patchwork scheme which only touches the surface and does not give real effect to what is proposed. 
I do not wish to speak much further on this matter as an important function will be taking place soon and also as other members on this side of the Committee desire to participate in the debate. What I say is that this scheme is good as far as it goes. It is inadequate. The very minimum is 10c. The $200,000 which is needed for a full year's operation is nothing at all for this Government when compared with its income and expenditure. If the Government has available millions of dollars for a wealth of other things, I see no reason why this deserving section of the community should not get its share. I ask also why the Government does not conduct a survey of the people who really need a Meals on Wheels service. A survey was taken in Melbourne some time ago by a private organisation. To the eternal discredit of this Government, it has never conducted officially a survey on poverty in Australia. So, it does not know accurately those who need a Meals on Wheels service in their homes. 
Another factor which should be considered in relation to this Bill is this: Why does not the Government subsidise meals which are served in the welfare centres conducted by various councils throughout the Commonwealth? When all is said and done, these meals are being served to the aged in welfare centres. This is done by the Sydney City Council and various other metropolitan councils in New South Wales and probably in other States. Old people go to these places to obtain their meals cheaply. I think that they should be included in the scope of this legislation. Commendable as it is to subsidise even in the minimum way that the Government has done in respect of those people who will be served meals in their own homes, these organisations that conduct these services to which people come, such as welfare centres, also should be entitled to the benefits of the legislation. I see that the Minister wishes me to finish, so I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later hour. If he does not wish me to resume my speech later, I conclude by approving of the Bill but not by commending the Minister on his generosity, because it is unknown. He is hardly a diplomat. We can judge that by the speech he made a few moments ago. If this is the best contribution that the present Minister for Social Services can make to the welfare of aged people it is a long, long way to that haven of security that they have all longed for. I hope that members on the Government side will be as extravagant with money for social welfare purposes as they are in other fields. I cannot help but repeat it with sorrow and sadness that the Minister is a long way from being that great old fiery rebel who, in days gone by, was going to reform our social services structure. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Minister ot Immigration, upon notice: 
How many migrants at present in Australia have been refused naturalisation for political reasons. 
Is there any reason why the names of these migrants should not be made public; if not. will he provide this information. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What was the number of informal votes in (a) each State and (b) Australia in each of the past five elections for (i) the House of Representatives and (ii) the Senate? 
What was the percentage of informal votes in each case? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What would have been the result of each of the past five elections for the Home of Representatives if the system of first-past-the-post voting had applied. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
In what way is it determined which electoral divisions should be (a) city and (b) country for the purpose of the payment of electorate allowances under the Parliamentary Allowances Act. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
What was the date on which theTotalisator Agency Board was introduced in the Australian Capital Territory. 
How many branches have been opened and where are they located. 
What has been the (a) turnover and (b) net profit to date. 
What allocations of profits have been made. 
What are (he names of the organisations which have benefited, and what amounts have been allocated to each. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice: 
What are the total casualties to date in all categories of Australian Military Forces in Vietnam. 
How many casualties in each category were (a) national service trainees and (b) regular army personnel. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the total number of Australian Military Forces at present in Vietnam. 
How many are (a) national service trainees and (b) regular soldiers. 
What is the percentage of national service trainees engaged. 
-I want to address myself briefly to this discussion. 
One thing that makes me think that you,  Mr Speaker,  are completely wrong in your ruling is the support given to you by the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  I hope that if I am ever prosecuted he will act as the prosecutor. In the course of a rather discourteous remark he referred to me as a common juror. I just want to correct the learned Queen's Counsel and tell him that under the Jury Exemption Act No. 13 of 1965 in accordance with section 4 (1) I am not eligible to serve at all on a jury. You,  Mr Speaker,  have ruled under standing order 1 10 that this is not a censure motion, t has been said that it has been circulated as a censure motion.. I believe that that is beyond doubt. However, one thing that you have lost sight of is that in our motion we are trying to protect you above all people from a Government that is ruthlessly using the power of this Parliament. I do not want the Attorney-General to butt in again because I think he has done the Government case enough damage already. 
What you do not seem to realise,  Mr Speaker,  and what we are pointing out, is that this Government by its ruthless use of the forms of this House is making you the bunny, if I may use that expression, for its misdemeanours and its actions. 
Not for a minute,  Mr Speaker,  would I reflect upon your impartiality or interpretations, although I might disagree with them. The point 1 want to make is that the Government by its actions last night made you take full' responsibility for what happened in the House and now, by bringing forward this motion which you have ruled to be in order, is trying to evade its responsibilities and what I see is the embarrassment which it has caused to you. 
I referred to standing order 110. Let us, as ordinary people, have a look at what this ordinary standing order says: 
A motion of which notice has been given or an amendment which expresses a censure of or want of confidence in the Government and is accepted by a Minister as a censure or want of confidence motion or amendment shall, until it is disposed of by the House, take precedence of all other business. 
As other speakers have said, it has been accepted as a vote of censure. We have before us the papers that have been distributed, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said. It is worth reading the motion of censure of the Leader of the House. The Leader of the Opposition said: 
I give notice that at the next sitting  1  shall move that the Leader of the House should be censured for his mishandling of the business of the House and his failure to honour agreements made between the Government and the Opposition. 
If anyone here does not think that that is a vote of censure I think he is a case for medical examination. Looking at it in practical terms, 1 cannot see how, by drawing even the longest bow, one could say that that is not a censure of the Parliament. It should be quite obvious to honourable members that the Government is in a real jam. It does not want to support the infamous actions of the Leader of the House last night and it has reverted to the usual manner of evasion by employing a diversionary tactic. It is for this reason that the Government is doing these things. 
I will not debate the main subject,  Mr Speaker.  I just point out, as the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  has done, that this is a ruling that will have an important bearing on future discussions in this House. I have in mind your ruling that if one refers collectively to honourable members it is not an insult no matter what one says. What is to stop an honourable member on the Government side adding to this resolution now, as a further amendment, the individual names of every honourable member on this side of the Parliament? Would that not make a farce of the matter of censure? Every person on this side would be included. If this ruling is upheld it will mean that that can be done. We may be brought to the farcical position where a censure motion is brought against the Minister for Primary Industry, for example, and then every member of the Australian Country Party is named with him. Would anything be sillier? 
I just point these matters out, as the honourable member for Eden-Monaro has done, to show that it is an important motion. I hope that the House will uphold the dissent, as such a ruling could have a very far reaching effect on this Parliament. As the Leader of the Opposition has just mentioned to me, would it be in order, for instance, when a member of the Government moves that an Opposition member be suspended for us to substitute by way of amendment, the name of one on the Government side whom we did not like? This is precisely what could be done. There is no end to the possibilities of a ruling such as this. I am obliged to the Leader of the Opposition for that commendable thought, because I may give it a go one night. 
I regret very much to have to speak against you,  Mr Speaker,  knowing your impartiality and your endeavours to do the right thing; but on this occasion I feel that you have been misled in your judgment and that you have misinterpreted completely the attitude of the Government and the embarrassing position which it has put you in. I believe that at this stage you should suspend the sitting as you did last night, reconsider the question and come back to the House and say that the Opposition is right in this case, that the Government has failed to do the right thing, and that the amendment should be ruled out of order. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, on 5th November 1947 this Parliament was debating the Banking Bill and this report of the proceedings appears at page 1732 of Hansard: 
I point out,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the honourable member for Indi is now the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen).  The report continues: 
These are the words of the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the great reformer, the great disciple, the upholder of the dignity of Parliament. That is not the end of the extract that I want to read: it acts better as it goes on.  Mr McEwen  continued: 
The Minister said that I had knowingly made a false statement. Me is not entitled to say that, and I am entitled to deny it. 
The report continues: 

 Mr HOLLOWAY; Mr Deputy Speaker, may I make an appeal to the honourable member for Indi- 
Yet this same man has used terms such as reprehensible conduct' and 'unparliamentary conduct opposed to all the principles of democracy'. Then  Mr Holloway,  a kindly man, said: 
Knowing that the  honourable  gentleman can, at the proper  time  and in the proper place, make a personal  explanation,  I know that he did not have any right to take the attitude that he did. Therefore, very much against my will, I shall have to move: 
That the  honourable  member for Indi  (Mr McEwen)  be suspended from the service of the House. 
This is the recent lovely  speaker.  Then  Mr McEwen  said: 
Do not  apologise. This is  common practice. 
These are the words of the great upholder of law and order. He seems to forget that I also have been in this Parliament for a long time. I have a good memory. I remembered that incident because on that occasion we witnessed one of the most reprehensible displays of conduct by members of the Country Party that I have seen since I became a member here. 
Members of the Country Party at that time, including the present Deputy Prime Minister, were thrown in and out of Parliament so often for disorderly conduct that they almost required letters of introduction when re-introduced. I say to honourable members that in the history of this Parliament - and I have been here for 27 years - there has never been a more disruptive personality than the man who leads the Country Party today and who made that speech a few moments ago. Disruption and disorder in this Parliament was his policy and the policy of members of the Country Party when they sat in the corner of this chamber and did everything possible to stop the workings of the democratic government of that time. 
The present leader of that Party is the man who spoke a few moments ago. Now look at him. I do not like to use the words but he reminds me of a reformed reprobate. The fact is that he has done all the bad things - it was lovely while it lasted - but now he claims to bc a law and order man. No one pays any regard to what he said. As a matter of fact he even spoke about calling the police. Did you ever hear anything like it? And why should he not call the police? He is a member of the same 
Party as 'Shoot-em-down Thorby'. Do honourable members remember him years ago? He was the Country Party man - he has now gone on - who wanted to shoot people down because they would not enlist, or something to that effect. But the  Deputy  Prime Minister spoke about bringing the police into the chamber. He told honourable members and the people of Australia that last night members of the Australian Labor Party staged a violent challenge to law and order. He said that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  would not do anything about it. He said that we of the Opposition endeavoured to bring to this Parliament demonstrations such as are happening throughout the community today. I wonder whether the  Deputy  Prime Minister would mind if we brought the farmers into this place. I wonder. I wonder what he will say when that militant pro-Communist farmers' union marches on Canberra. Will that be another demonstration? What will he do about the disruption that will take place? 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister is the maker of men. He picked the the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and now he is cranky because he realises the mistake he made. The fact is that he is always picking Prime Ministers. Why would he not tonight attack the Leader of the Opposition? Surely the  Deputy  Prime Minister wants to get away from the mess and destruction that is sitting behind him now. He wants to get away from the attacks being made on the Gorton Government and the Gorton Ministry. He wants to take the minds of honourable members away from the way in which the Country Party has let down the primary producers and the fact that farmers are marching in their masses. He wants to get away from anybody raising in this Parliament something which cannot be said in public - that is, what he thinks of the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  and what that Minister thinks of him. 
The Deputy Prime Minister quoted a lot of things. I could go on for a long time about this goodie goodie now leading the Country Party. He accused the Opposition of last night bringing this Parliament to a stop because of the disruptive tactics adopted. This Parliament has lost the respect of the people because of the conduct of this Government. It is a rubber stamp government which gags through everything. The Parliament not having sat for  5  months some time ago, the gag was applied  6  or  7  times in  1  day when there was no business before the House. To its eternal credit there is, on the other side of Kings Hall, another place where the gag has not been applied for  7  years. But in this chamber, day in and day out, the policy is gag, gag, gag. and that is the policy of the democracy that the man who has just spoken wants in this Parliament. He wants a democracy which wields a ruthless mailed fist on members of this Parliament irrespective of its effect on the Australian people. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, last night in this House the  Speaker  was made the scapegoat of the Government for its infamous conduct in handling the affairs of the Parliament. Tonight I take my hat off to the Leader of the Opposition for the inspiring lead that he gave to the people of Australia in this respect. I also take my hat off to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who refused to leave his seat. He would not have been worth his salt if he had not refused to do so because of the treatment meted out to him by a Government which is lucky to be in office. The Government does not represent the Australian people, because the Australian Labor Party received  250,000  more votes than it did at the last Federal election. The  Deputy  Prime Minister, this reformed character sitting at the table, is hardly recognisable to me tonight. He sounded so good while making his speech. It was pleasant to rekindle the memories of his wild days. It is good to think that the old rebel is dying hard and that he is going to show these boys coming up, such as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  - the messenger boy, as he is described by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)-  that the old chap can still fight. Honourable members, do you know what? I think tonight's speech means that we will get another year out of him before he retires. 
The Government has accused the Leader of the Opposition of not taking any action at the request of  Mr Speaker  to get the honourable member for Wills to leave the chamber. That is a deliberate misrepresentation - as I shall prove - of the facts of the case. I do not think the  Deputy  Prime 
Minister was present at the time. I do not think he was up at that time. If I do him a disservice, well and good. However, I will quote what happened as it is reported at page 884 of last night's Hansard.  Mr Speaker  made his appeal for the Leader of the Opposition to do something about the honourable member for Wills in order to salve the situation. The Hansard record then reads:  (Mr Whitlam rising in his place.) 
I remember it well. He looked concerned, as all members were, at the conduct of the Government and the position the Opposition had been forced into because of that reprehensible conduct.  Mr Speaker  said: 
Order! There will be no debate on the question. 
Do not forget he had asked him to say something. He must have thought our Leader was in the Liberal Party because all of its members follow blindly.  Mr Speaker  went on to say: 
I am making a request to the honourable member for Wills to decide whether or not he will leave the chamber. I would remind all honourable members that the sitting was only suspended and that there is still business before the House. 
Then the Deputy Leader of the Labor Party rose and said: 

 Mr Speaker, during your remarks to the House in relation to the honourable member for Wills you referred frequently to the Leader of the Opposition. I think in these circumstances, having regard to decency- 
Then the Prime Minister jumped up and said: 
I rise on a point of order,  Mr Speaker. 
Do not forget that after the  Speaker  had asked the Leader of the Opposition to do something not only was he refused the right to talk but also the Prime Minister of the country wanted to make sure that he did not say anything at that time. The record continues: 
First class speech! The Prime Minister was just as good: 
He was speaking to the Prime Minister. But we can see that the Leader of the Opposition was trying to get to his feet to explain to the House what could be done but the  Speaker  who asked him to say it would not let him rise and members opposite, from the Prime Minister down, were making sure that he did not. They did not want law and order. They wanted things to be done their way and they were resentful of this. The record continues: 
That is a fair question. The record continues: 
That must be today, I suppose, yet he wanted something done last night. 
I am repeating this at length because of the misrepresentation from the Deputy Prime Minister, the Prime Minister and others on the Government side. 
And that would be a remarkable decision - to find out what a man has to say and then not let him say anything when he rose to his feet. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister should remember that, as also should those over there who say that the Leader sought to do noththing to end that which was called anarchy last night. Let it be recorded in Hansard that he did his very best and was refused permission from the  Speaker  and even the Prime Minister got to his feet to stop him. 
That the Leader of the Opposition be heard. 
This was after asking the Leader to do something and it was moved, proposed and seconded that he be heard. Then there was a remarkable decision. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Grayndler that he be very careful in making comments in regard to this matter and that there be no reflection upon the Chair and its decisions. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, you know from long experience that I have never reflected on  Mr Speaker's  ruling or his integrity. The record continues: 
I move: 
That  Mr Speaker's  ruling be dissented from. 
I do not know what I was moving against but evidently it was an expression of opinion. The record continues: 
Opposition members - There is a motion. 
I put that on record word for word to she that last night the Leader of the Opposition was asked to do something and he was prevented with Government co-operation from showing what could be done from his point of view in respect of what the Government described as anarchy. This has completely disproved the vile charge of the great reformer who sits in repose at the table. 
Let us have a look at the Government opposite. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  who is sitting at the table is  Deputy  Prime Minister at least for the time being. I hope that he makes the last of his term there before he retires. Many more will retire with him but they do not seem to realise this. He said: 'This has got to stop. We will not stand for it.' Are you going to bring in the police? Are you going to bring in the Army? Are you going to bring in some Fascist machine? Are you going to create an army to control Parliament? Are you going to use force in this Parliament by vote and set up an army of some kind? Why did you not proceed,  Mr Deputy  Prime Minister, and tell the people of this country what you intend to do to the Opposition? Will it be that every man who raises his voice in protest against the monstrous policies and actions of your Government in this Parliament will automatically be thrown out of the Parliament and refused the right to speak. Will protests on this side of Parliament be described as anarchy? I think the public is entitled to know whether this Government is going to introduce physical threats and force in order to try to subject this Opposition to its kind of rule in the Parliament. To me it is a matter for regret that sitting on that side of Parliament are men who call themselves democrats. They sit over there silently and put up with anything in preference to giving justice to the people who represent this country. 
The people of Australia should discard completely the remarks made by the Leader of the Country Party tonight. This action of the Government is a camouflage to take the public's mind off the internal dissension and disruption that exists from one end to the other in the Liberal-Country Party today. The Government is riddled with dissension. The Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  is not talking to the  Deputy  Prime Minister, who is sitting at the table. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister told the Liberal Party that, if the former Treasurer were elected to the Prime Ministership he would walk out on the Government. Honourable members know as well as I that sitting behind the present Prime Minister in this place are men whose knives are a foot long and they are just waiting to see when they can get him. This motion has been moved against the Leader of the Labor Party in an endeavour to distract public attention from the people who are struggling along in Government and completely betraying all the principles of democracy in this country. I do not want to say any more. 1 know that what I am saying must be very hard for you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to take as a member of the Country Party. But at the same time I could not let go unchallenged this great reform speech tonight which brought tears to my eyes, and I thought of this great man crying for a democratic institution and crying for approaches to be made to politics here when in his day he would have laughed at them if they had been brought up. He was the leader of a band of people who had been kicked out of the Parliament. When I was here years ago members of the Country Party took pride not in how many speeches they made but in how many times they went through the door. That was their policy and tonight the  Deputy  Prime Minister tries to tell the people of this country what the Labor Opposition should do. I do not make a threat now. 1 say as a fact that this Party here and in another place will fight tooth and nail for the restoration of democracy in this Parliament. If the Government, with its slender majority for the time being of 7 or 8, thinks that it can whip into submission the members on this side of the House by the ruthless use of the gag and the threat of police action, it has another think coming. The Labor movement in this country will forever fight for the things that are democratic, be they demonstrations against Vietnam or injustices to those on the farms who are demonstrating today. But above all else in this Parliament we will fight for a restoration of democracy against the type of leadership that the Leader of the House gives to this Parliament. Irrespective of what the Press might say, what the Country Party might say and what members on the other side of the House might say, we will restore democracy. We will fight for it in the face of whatever our enemies on that side of the Parliament might do to destroy it. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What are the names of the present Commissioners of the British Phosphate Commission. 
What was the (a) date and (b) term of appointment of each Commissioner. 
What salary, allowances, expenses, etc., are payable to each Commissioner. 
How many meetings have been held in each of the past 5 years, and at what places were they held. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is (a) the number of Allied military personnel from each nation engaged in Vietnam at this date, and (b) the total of all Allied forces? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the total number of United States forces withdrawn from Vietnam following  President  Nixon's decision to take this action? 
What plans have been announced for further withdrawals and how many troops are involved? 
The Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden),  who is at the table, in a very tolerant manner introduced proposals which were acceptable, with one exception, to the Opposition. To start with let me put right the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  who has just spoken. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  accepted the proposals but indicated that during the course of the debate the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  would move an amendment, which was subsequently moved. That destroys completely the false impression created at the commencement of the speech of the honourable member for La Trobe, when he said that the Opposition accepted in their entirety the proposals of the Leader of the House. The honourable member for La Trobe is a remarkable man. If somebody in the Navy is sacked, the honourable member would wreck the Government. When we want to protest against men dying in Vietnam - he could not care if troops died there year in and year out - he would do nothing about it.  1  remind the honourable member for La Trobe that some months ago the Minister circulated a document setting out the proposed sitting days of this Parliament. Honourable members, as was their right, took the opportunity to make certain commitments. The honourable member for Lalor and others on this side of the House had 8th May booked. No doubt honourable members on the other side of the House had that day booked for other purposes. 
As a matter of fact, I am one of those cohorts who signed the Moratorium. Judged by the remarks of the honourable member for La Trobe, I suppose I am in remarkable company today. The honourable member did not make a wild outburst about demonstrations when the  10,000  farmers marched in Melbourne and halted what was going on in Melbourne at that time. If farmers march, it is for democracy and justice. When men want to protest against troops being sent to war - a war in which we should not be engaged - that is anarchy of the worst type and no member of Parliament should join in that protest.I have never heard such hypocrisy in my life as that advanced by the honourable member. 
What was that,  Mr Speaker? 
What was it? 
-As a matter of fact I do not. Was it 'hypocrisy'? 
The honourable member for La Trobe said- 
I withdraw the remark, although I do not know what it was. I point out that the Leader of the House said that this will be one of the heaviest sittings because of the number of Bills to be debated. He said that the sitting would have to be extended for some considerable time because of the heavy legislative programme. I point out to the honourable member for La Trobe that if he had not been loafing around his electorate during the 4 or 5 months of the longest recess in the history of this Parliament this rush of legislation which has been foreshadowed by the proposal now before the Parliament could have been covered in the period when the Parliament could have been sitting but was in recess. That would have allowed all members of this Parliament to be free on 8th May for their commitments in their electorates, as the honourable member for Lalor and others wish to be. What has occurred today is due entirely to the lengthy period that this Government kept the Parliament in recess. Why should we not have met just after the elections last year for a time, and why was the Parliament not called together early in January? 
Today we are seeing a classic demonstration of the failure of this Government to face up to its responsibility, and we are seeing its frightened approach to legislative programmes because it does not like to face the Parliament. The honourable member for La Trobe knows that that is true.  His  speech about the Moratorium and everything else that he raised today was a smokescreen. The fact of the matter is that if the Opposition had not broken the law - if I may use the term - last Wednesday we would not have had this arrangement being proposed today. It is also a fact that to break the law sometimes, as the honourable member for Lalor said, is justified. We proved it here last week. It is significant that the gag has not been moved since that occasion because the Government is frightened to move in that respect, so great is the reaction against it. I am now informed that the gag was moved once yesterday, but the point I make is that to break the law sometimes brings results. 
I do not want to speak at great length today other than to say that  1  regret that the debate on the motion for the adjournment will not commence until  11  o'clock at night. It is terribly important for private members to have the right to express themselves in this Parliament. We will be given no opportunity to do it under the programme that the Minister has outlined. Today 5 or 6 members were able to speak in the Grievance Day debate. Recently we have been here till midnight or 1.30 a.m. to discuss matters of interest to private members. I would like to discuss, for instance, Rhodesia and the gentleman who wants to abolish the monarchy, but what is the use of doing it at 1 o'clock in the morning? I would like to raise the question of the Country Party meeting at Warrnambool yesterday, but I want people to hear me before half past 12 in the morning, because it is important that the public know of this disunity in the Country Party and what is happening in respect of it. 1 see no reason why the adjournment debate should not commence at 10.30 each night to give private members an opportunity to speak on these matters. This is one aspect on which I differ to an extent with the Government. It is proposing that the question that the House should adjourn be put at 11 o'clock and that the debate be kept going until later in the night than is justified. Secondly, while supporting the amendment to exclude 8th May from the proposals, I would like to suggest to the Government that it might bring the commencement of the debate on the motion for the adjournment back to 10.30 p.m. for the reasons I have mentioned, in order that members on this side of the Parliament in a private capacity will be given a full opportunity to debate matters in which they are interested. 1 do not want to hold up the business of the House, but I would say to the Leader of the House that he should control some of the more exuberant members on his side of the House. We on this side are dealing with this matter in a national and nonpolitical way. I suggest, in fairness to the Minister, that he brought the proposals in with good intent and in a tolerant and understanding way. To see a good case destroyed by the type of speech made by the honourable member for La Trobe brings no credit to the Parliament or the Government of this country. That is why today I suggest that honourable members should discard completely what the honourable member for La Trobe has said about the Moratorium and the reasons for it given by the honourable member for Lalor, because 1 have been in this Parliament when the Government made sure that our sittings did not clash with the Melbourne Cup on the first Tuesday in November. That week was always the week off. Yet today when we seek the right to be at protest meetings against the war in Vietnam, which is morally wrong, which is unjust, in which this country should never have been engaged, and in which conscripted boys are dying at this moment, the Government says that this is not as important as the Melbourne Cup and that we ought to be here instead of adding our support to this protest. 
That is the argument of the honourable member for La Trobe. That is one of the reasons, amongst others, why the Opposition says that the commencement date of the proposed Friday sittings should be 15th May. 1 hope that the Leader of the House will show tolerance in his approach, completely ignore the statements made by honourable members opposite and accept 13th May. I remind the honourable member for La Trobe that it was the unanimous decision of the Australian Labor Party parliamentary caucus that we commence on 15th May. That information will bring him right up to date. One thing about the honourable member for La Trobe is that he does not believe in spoiling a good speech by sticking to the facts. 
-I want to say a few words about whatI believe is a serious disagreement between the Government parties. If there is one thing that I do not like to see, it is the breakup of what has been a comparatively happy marriage, although it has undoubtedly had its trials and tribulations.I am prompted to make this speech tonight by reason of the conference held at Warrnambool yesterday from which the Country Party Leader and a senior Minister of the Government saw fit to go to a conference in Melbourne. The crux of the situation was that there was a resolution before that conference to withdraw the support of the Australian Country Party from the Liberal Government. I do not blame the Country Party for getting fed up with the Liberals, because most people in this country have felt that way for a long time. But it is interesting to see that in a government, which claims to be united and to have the confidence of the people at this stage, the most predominant and dominating partner is seriously considering withdrawing from the coalition. 
At the conference in Warrnambool yesterday the Victorian Country Party rejected moves to break up the Federal coalition with the Liberal Party. The fact that this suggestion has been considered is a very serious blow to the stable government of this country. It is reported in the Melbourne 'Age' that after a fiery speech by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen),  the Country Party adopted a resolution indirectly censuring the Federal Country Party by calling on it to do more for rural industries. This is supposed to be the Party that stands for the primary producer. The report in the newspaper said: 

 Mr McEwen clashed several times with State CP. members of Parliament during a tense 3-hour debate over the Party's dissatisfaction with Federal performance. 
Anybody who has had a good look at the Country Party members here knows that they are poor performers in any field. At one stage the Deputy Prime Minister threatened to get on his plane and go back to Canberra when the delegate tried to switch the issue to opposing Liberal Cabinet Ministers at the next Federal elections. According to the report, the Deputy Prime Minister went on to tell the delegates not to 'squeal like stuck pigs'. What a way for him to talk to his supporters. Of course, they have got a hide. They arc going broke and they are kicking up a fuss about it. They ought to go quietly. But this is the kind of thing that went on at the conference. 
The report goes on: 
However, despite the clashes,  Mr McEwen's  40 minute defence of Federal Country Party actions appeared narrowly to head off an all out rejection by the conference of the principle of coalition government in Canberra with the Liberal Party. 
The Deputy Prime Minister is reported as saying: 
You will get nowhere by shooting down your front line troops from behind.' 
The report added: 
There was an angry scene when  Mr McEwen  told delegates who had criticised the Federal policy on tariffs 'costs are not the all and end all of your problems. 
The report then went on to say: 
Obviously angry at his hostile reception by the conference, he told the delegates: 'The Australian public are your only good customers who pay you what you want. Don't talk as though only secondary industry is protected.' 
Then the  Deputy  Prime Minister clashed with  Mr Bruce  Evans, the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party in Victoria. I thought they loved each other. I thought they were in the one Party. But this is what  Mr Evans  told the conference: 
I want  Mr McEwen  to do all in his power to ensure that the speech he gave here today doesn't circulate in my electorate. "This doctrine that you can do more as a Member of the Government is dynamite - it is what the Liberal opponent from my seat is saying. 
We ought not to sell the principles and the policies of the Country Party on the basis that it is more important to have power than principles.' 
What a condemnation from the Deputy Leader of the Country Party in Victoria of the men who sit in the corner here. The newspaper report then went on: 
. the conference finally rejected a motion calling on the CP to terminate the coalition if it cannot restore the rural economic position. 
That is a devastating decision for a Country Party organisation in Victoria to make. Honourable members should not forget that this decision was made after the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Leader of and the most powerful man in the Country Party, had addressed this conference. Instead of asking the Country Party to get right out of the coalition, the conference 'passed by a big majority a motion that "this conference stresses the urgency of the financial plight of primary producers due to falling prices and rising costs, and informs our Parliamentary members of the power we expect them to exercise from their position of strength within the Government".' 
The report continues: 
The conference also passed a second resolution requesting the Federal Parliamentary party 'to be more actively concerned with the economic plight of rural communities'. 
What a condemnation by their fellow colleagues in the Victorian Country Party. In other words, the conference at Warrnambool yesterday stated that the members of this Parliament, who are supposed to represent the Country Party and the primary producers, have betrayed them; and only when the  Deputy  Prime Minister himself went to this conference in Victoria did it refrain from instructing the members on that side of the Parliament to walk out from the Liberal-Country Party coalition. This is not the only time that has happened. The Country Party was going to leave the coalition when the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  was considered for a high office. But now it has woken up that it ought to have gone out on bigger principles than that. 
As 1 look at a report in the Melbourne Sun' I see that  Mr McEwen  said, amongst other things: 
I find it an extraordinary experience to have to come here and spell out to people who have already bad the money in (heir pockets what the Country Party has done for them. 
When one looks at that situation - the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  will agree with me - it is shocking that in this country men will not go broke quietly because of the bankrupt policies of the Country Party and the Liberal Party. Is this not a shocking thing in view of the harmony and the goodwill that seemed to exist between these people in days gone by in this Parliament? We see the happy marriage breaking up now and going right on the rocks because one of the partners will not fulfil its marital functions. The Country Party will not meet its conjugal obligations to the Liberal Party and now the honeymoon is over. Anyhow, it was only a shotgun marriage at the best of times. Now, like all shotgun marriages, it is on the rocks and the poor children of the marriage are bankrupt all over the place. I suppose the junior parner, the Country Party, is the poor disgraced wife. The powerful master has all the funds and will not keep the children. So the old marriage is on the rocks. It is sad and distressing, as it must be to you,  Mr Speaker,  to see this marriage breaking up. Even an appeal from the grandfather of the Party would not bring them back together. It is a dreadful thing to be discarded by your own. 
The only matter on which I could extend congratulations to the Country Party in Victoria is its realisation that the Liberal Party is not good to be associated with at any time, and the fact that they have woken up to it should be an indication to the honourable gentlemen who sit opposite that at least one section of the Party shows a little commonsense and realises that all is not well in this ill become marriage that we have seen here for some years. I wonder what the former Minister For Primary Industry thinks about the break-up of this marriage which he moulded in years gone by. 
The right honourable member says they are not divided. I am only going by what took place at the conference. I just thought tonight I would stir the embers of those lovely happy days. It reminds me of that old song 'Those Were the Days', which says: 'We thought those days would never end', lt was sung by that lovely lady in Great Britain. Honourable members can see how these reminders sting honourable members opposite. The happy memories are there but the bitterness comes to the top when marriages break up, and people say harsh things about each other, lt must have been awful to be there and hear the people saying: 'Get up there and protect the people you are there to protect and give more attention to the rural industries.' When I hear of a Country Party conference doing this, I think well of the people of Riverina who have sent a man here like their honourable member. I think of the other honourable members from the rural districts who sit on this side of the Parliament and who will stand up for the country people. With a united Opposition here with a great policy, we will do the things that the Country Party is failing to do. 
However, it was not my intention tonight to bring politics into this at all. I just wanted to remind the House of what is happening on the opposite side, of the disunity that exists in the Liberal Party and the Country Party and the distrust of the Country Party organisations of their own members. Of course, above all else I place on record my regret at the failure of another shotgun marriage which has gone the way of all marriages of that kind. 
The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  has been good enough to outline to the Parliament proposals dealing with migrant education to which he will give legislative effect in the near future. Therefore at this stage I do not propose to speak at great length on the subject. No doubt I and other honourable members will have the opportunity later to discuss this matter which, I believe, is of vital interest. However at this stage I do wish to make a few broad comments about the Minister's statement 
I thank the Minister for this early advice on a subject which we can now investigate more fully before the proposals come before the Parliament. The Government's proposal is a forward step in the fulfilment of our ideals and aspirations in the field of immigration. I believe, as does the Minister, that a more comprehensive programme is very necessary at this stage. The programme he has outlined may have some weaknesses which will be shown up in debate or by trial and error but at this stage it appears to have been well planned, both financially and organisationally, in co-operation with the States and those who will be responsible for putting it into effect. 
I believe that a lack of knowledge of the language of the country sponsoring a great migration programme is the greatest barrier to the integration of migrants and their social and economic success. This is true not only in Australia but in other countries with immigration programmes. I believe that for social, economic and integration purposes there is a real need in Australia to teach the English language at every level. The Minister's statement that the Government will enlarge the child education programme and will extend it to include adults, both before and after entry, is something which all honourable members must welcome. I am pleased also to note that evidently the Minister and the Department of Immigration are taking note of submissions made in this Parliament and at immigration conventions, and by interested organisations, about the need for something to be done in the field of education. I hope that his ambitions in this respect will be fulfilled. 
The Minister has announced that a number of surveys have been made. At this stage I do not know whether the results of those surveys have been made available to the Parliament, but I think all honourable members would be entitled to study them in detail. Undoubtedly they contain some very vital information. I am reminded particularly of the problem associated with the education of the children of migrants. My colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in whose electorate the Villawood hostel is situated, has told me that there is a big influx of migrant children to the schools in his area. A tremendous problem faces the children concerned. This influx also presents a grave problem for the teachers. That is why the financial arrangements outlined by the Minister in relation to training courses and other aspects of education should be welcomed by all members of the Parliament. 
I have had first hand experience of the migration education programme to date, having studied what happens overseas and what is done on shipboard. I have also studied programmes in other countries. I think the programme is commendable as far as it goes but there is room for considerable improvement. At the Australian Citizenship Convention in January 1970  Mr Arvi  Parbo, General Manager of the Western Mining Corporation, dealt with this problem of language. He said: 
The first, most obvious, and most severe problem area for many migrants is language. 
He said there were other problems. He continued: 
Learning to communicate in a new language, difficult as it is, is only one of the problems created by language difficulties. An example of others is the loss of understanding that often develops between migrant families and their children. 
Further on he said: 
The children normally become fluent in English within a short time and, although often retaining a proficiency in their native language, soon come to regard English as their 'first' language. 
He went on along those lines. I believe that written into this legislation that is to be brought down will be many of the sentiments expressed by that gentleman who speaks from first hand knowledge of the problem. I am reminded also of what was said at that Convention by Miss Olive Nichols, District Inspector of Schools in the Sydney city area for the New South Wales Department of Education. She delivered a paper on this matter in which she said: 
These children of foreign origin, proficient in their own tongue and able to communicate in the home situation, have now to adjust themselves to an environment where it becomes necessary to learn a completely new set of speech habits, the sounds, structures and vocabulary of their initial language being of little or no use to them. 
That is the child's problem. But the teacher has just as big a problem in endeavouring to convey his impressions or his knowledge to the child. Evidently these papers delivered at that Convention, as well as other moves, have had a significant effect in respect of the programme that the Minister has outlined. Whilst we deal with the problems of children and teachers and questions relating to the social and economic integration of migrants, at this stage there appears to be a much more lively interest being taken by the Government and organisations in the education of adult migrants. I refer to a paper that was presented to the Citizenship Convention held this year in Canberra by Professor W. F. Connell, head of the Department of Education at Sydney University. He said that a survey by the Department of Immigration indicated that about one-third of foreign born migrants cannot speak English and that departmental English classes assist only a small proportion of them. He also said. 
It appears that many past arrivals have remained largely ignorant of the English language and that, so far from catching up with this backlog of students, present classes are not catching the numbers of recent arrivals. It appears that the language programme is steadily slipping backwards. 
He went on to say that women and migrants in the age group 30 to 39 years are largely missing from numbers attending English classes. He suggested that more women might be encouraged to attend if there were morning classes and more teachers. 
It is significant that he suggested many of the reforms that are proposed in the legislation outlined by the Minister. They include question of subsidy, part time or full time for some of them, and an intensive programme not only for those with professional qualifications but also for others who have ability and knowledge but are debarred from taking advantage of it by reason of their lack of English. It is inevitable that these proposals cannot be implemented without the expenditure of money. One aspect of the migration programme that appears to come under criticism at this stage is that, whilst thousands of migrants are being brought to the country, the States are not being given a commensurate amount of money to provide education, housing and other factors associated with a great migration programme. This has not been forgotten in the legislation the Minister indicated will be introduced. If this programme is fulfilled in the way that the Minister has outlined today and comes to fruition as he has said, it undoubtedly will be a forward step in providing for the education of migrants and their integration into the community. 
As I mentioned earlier, I do not wish to speak at greater length at this stage. I see the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  come to the table. I hope that he will not want to curtail my oration in the debate that will take place on the legislation as he evidently does now. I hope he will give full opportunity to every member of this Parliament who wants to speak on this programme to do so when a debate takes place because I know of no programme which has greater continuity of support from members on all sides of the Parliament. I believe a full scale debate on this programme, whilst some criticism might be levelled at certain aspects of it, would be very fruitful to the Minister, to the Department and to the country. With the assurance of the Minister for Immigration that he will not curtail the debate when it takes place, within reason, I will content myself with saying that we on this side of the House will welcome the legislation. At this stage I see no reason why it should be opposed - we may be able to improve it - and I join with the Minister in expressing the hope that it will allow the thousands of migrants who today suffer from not having a thorough understanding of the English language to integrate socially and economically and in every way take full advantage of the opportunities given to them in this country under the migration programme. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is the Australian Watching Co (N.S.W.) Pty Ltd, Sydney, under contract to protect the Marrickville Military Depot at certain hours. 
If so, what are the details of the contract, including hours of coverage, cost, length of contract, date of commencement, etc. 
Does this same company provide, or do other organisations provide, similar services at other Army establishments; if so, will he provide (a) the name or names of the organisations, (b) the establishments protected and (c) full details of the terms of contracts entered into, including costs, etc. 
by leave - I wish to say a few words in reference to the important matter under discussion. Every honourable member agrees that in time of drought relief, measures are necessary. As the honourable: member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  have said, the measure is very timely, very appropriate and very necessary. I am concerned about the attitude of members of the Australian Country Party and in particular of the honourable member for Kennedy in reference to measures of this kind. Their attack seems to be centred not so much on the matter under consideration; rather do they take the opportunity to launch an attack on the Opposition, particularly the honourable member for Dawson who consistently pressed for measures of this nature long before members of the Country Party woke up. 
The honourable member for Kennedy gave us a resume and repeated 3 or 4 times the names of every member of the Country Party who had belatedly and at the point of the gun, as it were, met representatives of rural interests on the important measure that we are debating today. The honourable member for Kennedy has a peculiar arrangement. He consistently attacks the Government outside the House for not bringing in measures of this kind to assist rural industry in times of drought and distress. He continually attacks the Government for its failure to face up to its responsibilities. Then he gives copies of his speech to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Press in his electorate and gives everybody the impression, quite falsely, that he. is a great militant and a great sponsor for rural and drought relief and things of that nature. But not once in this Parliament has the honourable member for Kennedy proposed a motion in support of the measures that he says are necessary and about which he speaks so much outside the Parliament. The honourable member should give expression to his sympathies and, if there is substance in his views and if he is sincere in them, he should move a resolution against this incompetent Government for its failure to assist the primary producers at this time of great stress. The honourable member would be surprised to find how many members on this side of the Parliament would join him for once in giving expression to measures which would bring support to the primary producers. 
I welcome this measure today. The Country Party has nothing to be proud of in giving support to measures of this kind only at the very last moment and in the most essential of circumstances. Honourable members do not have to take my word for this. Nine hundred members of the Country Party at a conference in Warrnambool a few days ago - I suppose 900 would be the whole party in Victoria - said that the front line troops in the Parliament were not carrying out their responsibilities to the primary producers of this country. They likened these men to front line troops. I think they are more like McHale's Navy. The Country Party, particularly the honourable member for Kennedy and others who represent huge drought stricken areas, have let the primary producers down. They have not faced up to their responsibilities. One cannot blame them in a way. When all is said and done half the Government is not interested in the primary producers. Very few primary producers are represented by the Liberal Party in the Parliament. It is nice to see the Country Party, which does not take the initiative, compliment a Liberal Prime Minister upon doing something for the primary producers that its Ministers and others have not done. As I said, honourable members do not have to take my word for this. Let them take the word of the country people. They have awakened to the fact. Those 900 militant farmers who are marching from Perth to Melbourne realised that in that corner- 
Naturally 1 would not transgress your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  You may have been a little tolerant. I feel emotional on this issue and 1 was somewhat carried away by it. I do not like to see the Country Party refusing to support urgency motions on drought relief proposed in this Parliament by the honourable member for Dawson, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and others. It has refused to support the Opposition on these measures and, irrespective of the merits of such motions, which are great, has consistently voted against us. The Country Party members have a peculiar arrangement with the Government. They may criticise it as much as they like outside the Parliament. Anything may happen to the primary producing interests outside, as long as in this Parliament the Country 
Party lines up with the Libera! Party and the Government and votes against worthwhile propositions from this side of 'he Parliament. 
I welcome the introduction of the measure. I regret the necessity for it. More in sorrow than in anger 1 join with those Country Party representatives at Warrnabool who have condemned their front line troops for their inadequacy and incompetency in representing country interests in this Parliament. At the same time [ commend that great band of Labor men who have come to the Parliament from rural areas - the honourable member for Dawson, the honourable member for Riverina, the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  and members from other States - who will give real leadership to the country people and who will bring stability back to rural industry and withstand the criticisms falsely levelled against them by those in the Parliament who are sent here to represent, country interests but who do nothing but criticise the efforts from this side of the Parliament to provide that security and stability. 
Government members - No. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is it a condition of appointment that members of the judiciary and magistrates under Commonwealth jurisdiction must terminate any association with political parties and their activities. 
If not, is he in a position to state the political affiliations, if any, of any members of the judiciary or any magistrates at present functioning under Commonwealth jurisdiction. 
1 wish to say a few words about this matter. 1 think members of the Public Works Committee are under a misapprehension if they believe that they are under attack. They have an advantage over other members of this Parliament in having heard the evidence and having seen the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Pearce. The persons who are under attack, in my opinion, are the representatives of the Department of Air who ignored completely the recommendation which appears at page 4 of the interim report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. That report was presented to this Parliament and it laid down, in effect, that safeguards should be made in respect of aircraft noise. 
I enter this debate because I am concerned about the possibility of reports from the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, submitted to this Parliament, being ignored by departments such as the Department of Air. A few minutes ago the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  said that the nearest living quarters on this base were about 1,000 yards, or 3,000 feet, from the runways. I live about 5 miles from Mascot airport and I can hear the revving of the jets there. They often wake me up at night. One thousand yards is no different to 1,000 inches as far as this noise is concerned. That is why it is important to this Parliament to know whether the recommendations of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise are being completely ignored in submissions to the Public Works Committee. In this case one would not be drawing a long bow to say that such information may well have been deliberately left out of this report. Planes fly over my district, which takes in Leichhardt, Stanmore, Marrickville, Newtown and other places, day and night. The roofs of houses shake every few minutes. 
I am very concerned to know whether important recommendations coming from the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise are being ignored completely. Possibly members of the Public Works Committee could not be expected to know everything contained in the report of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise but I would have thought that the Department of Air would include a reference to aircraft noise in its submission. To my mind this is a glaring omission in the evidence submitted to members of the Public Works Committee. I hope there will be no repetition of it. The Committee said, at page 15 of its report, that the aircraft noise problem at the proposed sleeping quarters will have to continue for some time. I express the view in this Parliament on behalf of the people from my electorate that they cannot continue to put up with aircraft noise and neither can the people in the community nor servicemen anywhere. I hope that when the interim report of the Aircraft Noise Committee comes before the Parliament in the very near future we will get an assurance from the ministerial heads of the departments concerned that the findings of the Committee will be taken into consideration and that if inquiries are being made into the siting of aerodromes, runways and things of that nature at least the departmental submission will include, even without comment, the findings of the Aircraft Noise Committee on these matters. 
There has been a misapprehension about who is under attack on this matter. The Public Works Committee made a finding, as was its right, but it was to my way of thinking misled by the Department of Air and the oratory of the Minister for the Navy has not changed my belief that he was covering up in this matter. It is significantly said on page 14 that no mention was made of this. F support the amendment that has been moved and I hope the Minister will assure the House that he will refer this proposal back to the Committee. I express my personal concern as one whose electorate is vitally affected by aircraft noise at the contempt, if I might say so, of the Department for the findings of the Aircraft Noise Committee. 
After listening to the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  I could not but think that if he represents the advanced thinking of members of the Government side on health and welfare schemes it is no wonder that the national health scheme is in a hell of a mess. We have never heard a stranger discouse on a great problem than that which the honourable member has delivered. Of course, anyone who would praise the present Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  at the conclusion of his speech is either looking for friends or has never read the record of the Minister. I speak tonight in support of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and at the commencement let me say that a prominent writer recently stated: 
Australia's national health scheme seems to be in a shambles - a makeshift jerry built structure erected in the quicksands of conflicting principles and held erect by the opposing pressures of many vested interests. 
That is a pretty fair summary of the situation today. I remember when the scheme was introduced in this Parliament and that former great disciple of Australian Country Party policy, the late  Sir Earle  Page, said that not more than 10% of the cost of medicine in this country would be borne by the taxpayer or the community. Now after all these years we have tonight before us a Bill of 178 pages. About 40 or 50 pages cover schedules which are related to the common fee, and the success or failure of this scheme depends entirety on the goodwill of the medical profession. That being the case let us see what the Government is doing to get the goodwill of the medical profession. I have in mind here - it has been repeated by members on the other side of this House during the debate - how the Australian Labor Party was criticised for its schemes and ils approach to the medical profession in the 1940s when it laid the foundation for what was a good medical service at that time. We in this Parliament saw the spectacle of members of the medical profession refusing to co-operate to have a great medical scheme introduced. Yet immediately the Labor Government was defeated they adopted in entirety the filling in of forms and regulations that they had refused to accept for a Labor administration. 
 They went on strike at that tune. Honourable members who sat on that side of the Parliament criticised us for not knowing how to handle the medical profession. Tonight 1 stir the embers of those days and read from the policy speech of the last good leader of the Liberal Party, the right honourable R. G. Menzies. Speaking of the Labor Government, he said:  . . lt  has also got itself into the position of fighting the medical practitioners. A Commonwealth Government approaching this matter with common sense will work for the co-operation of the States, of the municipalities, of hospital managements, of friendly societies, and of the medical, dental, pharmaceutical and allied professions. 
Having read that statement, let us have a look at the approach of the Minister for Health to the medical profession on which he depends today for the success or failure of this scheme. I suppose that even an unbiased person would say that the Minister's approach to the doctors is about as diplomatic as that of a boy who started to make love to a girl by kicking her in the shins. The fact of the matter is that the Minister who is sitting at the table is at war with the medical profession. He has met abuse from one end of this country to the other on this medical scheme. He has threatened the medical profession and no Minister of our time has generated more ill will towards the medical profession. By intimidation he has in the end endeavoured to force his will upon the medical profession. There is no trust or understanding. He has capitulated on the measure and he has put it off and off and off because he could not get co-operation. His whole approach to the doctors has been marked by incompetence and muddling and a refusal to co-operate. 
This is the Government that told the Labor Party that it would co-operate with the medical profession. We find today headlines in the Press such as 'Forbes and Doctors Talk on Row' - great method of co-operation. You can pick up these all over the country. Another one is 'Govt, gives in on health bill'; 'You'll pay more for health, says PM The doctors will make sure of that under this Government. This is the Government that said that the Labor Party did not know how to handle the matter. Let us have a look at the situation. The Minister is a whimsical fellow. One would never tell it by looking at him but he has a sense of humour. It is very well hidden but he reveals it now and again. In his second reading speech it came to the top with a great burst: 
Since my statement to the House on 4th March, this aspect of the new medical benefits arrangements has been the subject of some controversy within the medical profession and, for that reason, I desire to bring the relevant facts to the attention of honourable members. 
Some controversy. Why, members of the Australian Medical Association are in convulsions. They have condemned their officers. The Minister was abused when he attended their meeting. Doctors are resigning, coming in and going out, and abusing the Minister. And yet he said there has been some controversy'. I congratulate him on that whimsical touch to a rather dull speech. 
Let us look at the situation. One would think that the Government had sponsored this itself. I will tell honourable members why this scheme is on the stocks tonight, ft is because the Government won by 7 seats at the last federal election. In the middle of the election campaign, without having given it any consideration whatever, the Prime Minister was forced to answer Labor's great policy on health by promising for $5 any treatment that one wanted. The cost was to be $16m, but the Prime Minister did not even know or care what it would cost or anything about it so long as he kept off the Labor forces at that time. We find today the Government does not muck around with a million or two. Never spoil a good oration or a good policy speech for the sake of being factual. We find now that this is going to cost just on $30m - roughly 100% more in round figures. But this is one of the factors which caused the introduction of this Bill to this Parliament. 
I would like to quote from the Prime Minister's policy speech. He said: 
We are well advanced in negotiations with the medical profession and the health insurance funds so that all patients will be assured of medical benefits more closely related to doctors' charges. 
I would hate to see them if they were dragging the chain a bit if they are well advanced on this today. Then the Prime Minister said: 
Commonwealth medical benefits and fund benefits will be increased so that the difference between the benefit entitlements and the common fee charged by doctors will not at any time exceed $5 even for the most complicated and costly surgical procedures. For simpler procedures which arc less expensive, the difference between the benefits and the doctors' common fees will be very much less. 
Then, of course, he went on to say that the cost will be SI 6m. He had to make that promise at that time because, as Labor knew, the people of this country were sick and tired of the Government's discredited scheme - the most costly in the world and the most useless. This scheme does not have provision for dental treatment and gives only a 77% cover at the maximum price for the minimum return. Hospital contribution funds are exploiting Australia while this Government sits idly by. The Prime Minister knew something had to be done. The Nimmo report which honourable members opposite boast of tonight has been cited as the basis of their scheme. Why, the Government put it on the shelf for months and months on end. Only its narrow majority in this Parliament forced the Government to do anything about it. 
Some honourable members sitting here temporarily till the next election want to remember that it was probably the Government's promise about the S5 maximum fee that got them into this Parliament. Let us look at the scheme that is proposed and what we face at present. The present scheme cost, in the last financial year over S270m. The scheme that the Government is introducing to the Parliament now will not only cost Australian contributors to hospital benefit funds about $24m more but it will add in the vicinity of $65m extra to the cost of the scheme that we are at present financing. We find - this was said the other night - that from $58 per head a couple of years ago it has now gone up to $90. 
All along the line the Government at this stage is finding that the costs are increasing and that its judgment on this issue is such that it knows not where it is going end is entirely dependent now on the good will of the doctors. As 1 said - and the Minister has stated - the whole basis of this scheme depends on the common fee decided upon by the medical profession. The Minister has stated if this common fee is not adhered to he will take action. I have here a cutting from the 'Australian' dated 9th March. It is all very well to lay down a common fee, but what if the doctors will not cooperate? I have found doctors to be most unco-operative people so far as these things are concerned. That is, with the exceptions of my distinguished colleague the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and other notable medical men in the ranks of the Labor Party. But generally speaking the doctors are not very co-operative when there are a few bob involved or when their fees have to go down. But the Minister has threatened them. He has intimidated them. However, the 'Australian' of 9th March stated: 
It still isn't clear exactly how the Government is going to go about forcing doctors to co-operate, even though  Dr Forbes  has now unveiled most of the other features of the medical insurance scheme. 
He talked vaguely last week;- 
He does that regularly, of course -  of using public pressure to bring the doctors into line. Publicity it seems would rapidly make it clear to people which doctors were falling in with the health scheme and which were not. 
The idea of 'shopping around' for a doctor (in the strictly commercial sense) would be encouraged. 
But  Dr Forbes  seemed to indicate that the Government had not really made a final  decision on how far it would go to try to force doctors to co-operate. Would it, for example, go to the extreme of banning the payment of any benefits whatsoever to  a  doctor who did not charge the most common fee for  a  particular service? Or would it accept that the whole scheme was completely under the control of the doctors, that they could charge what they liked without the Government being able to do anything but complain to the public that the reason there wasn't an adequate health scheme was that the doctors were sabotaging it? 
When members on the other side of the Parliament say that the Labor Party is here to nationalise medicine and to socialise it, let the Minister be honest and tell the people of this country what he proposes to do to the doctors he has threatened if they will not subscribe to this scheme. Every worker has penalties imposed on him if -he does not fulfil the obligations of his employment or his trade union. There are obligations for every other section of industry and the people in connection with the responsibilities they have. The Minister now puts out a common fee proposition but gives no indication of what will be done should it not be fulfilled or accepted by the medical profession. It is all very well threatening. What if a Labor man had threatened the doctors like that? They would have cried to high Heaven on the other side of the Parliament about how we were threatening the medical profession. It is interesting that the Government is silent on what it will do to deliver the goods in respect of these matters. 
I notice that the fees of doctors and others under this scheme will be such that 80c will be the maximum that a person will have to pay for a surgery consultation. As the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  said a few moments ago, that would cover only 77% of the fee. What about the poor person who has to go regularly to a doctor? Honourable members opposite talk as though everyone has wealth, power and influence. Under this miserable Bill the Government is allowing only $3m for the poorer section of the community in subsidy of medical and health benefits. What about the men on low wages? What about men on wages of $30 or $40 a week who constantly have to have medical consultations? If such a man has a doctor visit him at home he pays $1.20. Have honourable members opposite ever tried to live on $30 or $40 a week or, say, $60 a week and pay a couple of dollars for doctors? What the public of this country wants to know is why people cannot have these services full and free to them under a scheme such as Labor proposes, without costs that are from time to time increasing? Everyone knows that the Government does not know from one day to the next whether or not doctors intend to increase their fees. Earle Page himself stated that the basis of this scheme was stability in the fees of the medical profession. After 20 years in office not only has the Government not got stability of medical fees, but every day of the week they rise and the Government has no control over them whatever. This scheme is dependent entirely on the doctors. 
Maybe the co-operation of the doctors is reserved for a Labor government. But we will not seek co-operation at the point of a gun, as the Minister opposite is trying to get it. I would like to see him use the charm that the Prime Minister of days gone by said would be the practice. I would like to see something concrete brought to this Parliament whereby the people will know for sure that the benefits will apply to them. We have heard too that under this scheme a certain section of the community will get free hospital treatment in public wards. 
To listen to the Minister's second reading speech one would think that he is making a major approach to a great problem in giving free hosptalisation to the poorer section of the community. I was a member of the social welfare committee of this Parliament which gave to every citizen of this country from one end of the nation to the other free hospitalisation without any means test. That was signed at the time by the late  Sir Frederick  Stewart and members of the Liberal Party who were on that joint committee. Any person in the community in those days could have free hospitalisation. Contrary to what is said, it was not based entirely on cost. It was based on the average amount that was received then from hospital contribution funds. But at least all people throughout Australia had full and free hospitalisation until a Tory government, pledged to abolish the means test, got into office and wiped out free hospitalisation in nearly every State of the Commonwealth. The reason why full and free hospitalisation is in force in Queensland today is that a Labor Government refused to let the Liberal Party abolish it in that State. Even today the Queensland Government gets only 80c per day per occupied bed from the Commonwealth - the rate which applied in 1949. When we talk about the Queensland scheme we must not forget that it was the scheme that was initiated by a Labor government throughout Australia. Honourable members opposite should not feel proud about giving this meagre benefit to people who are on low incomes - people who represent the most deserving section of the community. Honourable members opposite should hang their heads in shame for having denied to the Australian people free hospitalisation, which is their right. 
Let me examine another facet of the Bill. We have heard a good deal about the proposed increase of 25% in subscriptions to medical and hospitals funds. The rates charged by the Hospital Contribution Fund of Australia and the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia will be increased. Let us examine what the Australian public will get for those increases. If we examine the Second Schedule to the Bill, appearing on page 83 of the Bill, we find that the fund benefit in respect of item 9 in the First Schedule will be, under this legislation, $4.25 but the benefit now being paid is more than $4.25. The fund benefit in respect of item No. 13 is now $2.20, but after a 25% increase in subscription rates it will be reduced to $2. For item 24 the fund benefit is now $1.80, but it will be reduced under this legislation to $1.10. Surely it is time something was done about these funds. Their combined reserves amount to about $75m. I am reminded particularly of the HCF, which the honourable member for Prospect referred to in his speech. These funds are answerable to nobody. You would have thought that the Minister was making a progressive move when he said that they will have to present balance sheets to the Parliament. The major concern of these funds, particularly the HCF, is to protect doctors from bad debts, no matter what effect there is on the public. 
Let us examine these funds. I have with me a list of officers of the HCF- It has 15 or 20 executive officers. There is 1 doctor on the executive committee. Nobody knows how these people are elected, the term of their office, the nature of their allowances or expenses and the nature of the people whom they represent. In a prominent position on the executive of the HCF there is a person named P. G. Huxley. He is a remarkable man. He spent money lavishly. He did not worry about the cost of anything. He bet in sums as large as S250.000, At present he is languishing in Long Bay Gaol, without hospital benefits, doing a 20-year term. I understand that he was to have been the next  President  of the organisation. He was, so 1 am told, appointed to the organisation by  Mr Turner  in return for  Mr Turner's  nomination to the Art Gallery Society of New South Wales. What a scandalous state of affairs to have this horse trading in a fund which proposes to increase by 25% its subscription charges and at the same time to reduce some of its benefits. There are 24 honorary members of the HCF council, 1 1 of whom are members of the medical profession. There are 18 members of the New South Wales honorary executive committee, 12 of whom are doctors- There are 14 members of the Queensland honorary executive, 8 of whom are doctors. There are 1 1 members of the Tasmanian executive committee, 6 of whom are doctors. If this is not a special society for the benefit of doctors, created to protect the interests of doctors, f do not know what is. 
I do not know. Only the names of the members are listed. Nobody knows who they represent. Perhaps  Mr Turner  was ambitious. These people might have been members of good clubs and  Mr Turner  might have been nominated for membership of those clubs in return for arranging membership of the fund committees. These people are hand picked.  Mr Turner  always travels in his own chartered aircraft. We do not know what sort of expenses these people receive. 
In view of the fact that the running costs of these funds exceed 15% of subscriptions it is time the Government did more than ask them to table their balance sheets. There are about 116 funds in Australia. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has said, it is time they were amalgamated into 1 national fund, thus removing the high overhead costs incurred. In the event of political controversy these organisations are prepared to spend contributors' funds to fight anybody who opposes them. The publication which I now hold was distributed a few years ago bv the MBF, which attacked, among others,  Mr W.  Sheahan, MLA, who was Minister for Health in the New South Wales Labor Government. That publication would have cost a few hundred dollars, lt was paid for by the subscriptions of con tributors who should have been getting higher benefits. These funds are prepared to attack anybody, even members of Parliament. On 25th October 1963 the MBF had published in the 'Sun' a full page advertisement headed 'Statement Without Parliamentary Privilege. This week Minister for Health  Mr W.  F. Sheahan made a number of statements in Parliament and to the Press.' The organisation may do the same thing to this Government's Minister for Health. There should be some control exercised over the use of contributors' funds. The answer is not to have 1 1 6 different organisations but a Commonwealth organisation which will pay to contributors adequate benefits. These matters are overlooked by honourable members opposite and it is time they were brought to the light of day. 
Other matters deserve attention. Take the matter of the treatment of pensioners. The Government claims that it gives wonderful treatment to pensioners. However, many doctors have been debarred from participating in the pensioner medical scheme because, in the view of the Government, they have treated pensioners too often. In my electorate some time ago a doctor was debarred from participating in the scheme because he gave his patients too much attention. They were pensioners. The Government takes it out on the very needy and those in want while the big funds, such as the one controlled by  Mr Turner,  can do what they like. The funds have a flat rate of contribution. Everybody pays the same amount. This is most unjust in every way. 
I submit that the scheme that should be adopted is the one to which the Australian Labor Party gave so much prominence during the last elections. It is idle for honourable members opposite to say that our scheme cannot be financed. It has been approved by prominent citizens. When honourable members opposite and members of the Australian Medical Association attacked the scheme, men prominent in economics and finance came forward to say that the scheme could be successful. A Labor government will establish a system of universal health insurance. There will be a Commonwealth fund instead of the present multiplicity of organisations. As the Leader of the Opposition said during the last campaign, Labor's scheme will suit Australians who want a health scheme that will provide proper services at a cost which the community can afford. All this is vital and necessary, but it has been forgotten by the Minister. I will not go through Labor's proposal again except to say that it would give to the people of Australia the type of medical service to which they are entitled. Instead of criticising Labor's proposals honourable members opposite should recognise the wasteful expenditure in which they will involve the country under the Government's proposal - a proposal on which there is no guarantee of co-operation from the medical profession. Honourable members opposite should consider Labor's proposals without screaming about socialised medicine. Sick people are entitled to attention irrespective of their income. It does not matter whether you have a socialised scheme or a private enterprise schemePeople are entitled to medical attention, but they are not getting it under this Government's scheme. 
There are 116 separate funds. Australians pay more for health insurance than people in any other country. There is no competition amongst the funds. About 37% of Australians are suffering all the time by having to pay the additional costs associated with medical attention. Something like 25% have no coverage at all under the present scheme. This Government, which says that it is determined to protect the health of Australians, refuses to pay a Commonwealth benefit to a patient unless he belongs to a medical benefits fund. In other words people are to be conscripted. They have to pay into the fund; otherwise they will get no benefit from this Administration. This is a shocking travesty to present to people who pay their taxes, and who are entitled to get and should get medical attention whether or not they are in a fund. I mention these matters tonight in this Australian Parliament in order that the people will know that the proposal we are debating is just another patched up scheme provided by this Government. 
I did not wish to say more tonight other than to condemn, as other honourable members on this side of the Parliament have condemned, the approach of the Minister for Health to settling this problem with the medical profession and  in  not getting the co-operation he wanted. I think both he and the Prime Minister deserve to be condemned for not having worked this scheme out financially and with the medical profession before bringing it before the Parliament. This was a desperate move by the Government parties  in  order to return to the Government benches, and to stop the Labor Party from winning the election because of the scheme it promised. 
I see no hope whatever of the schedule in the Bill being fulfilled under this Government and while the present Minister for Health maintains his present attitude towards the medical profession. At the same time I believe that the medical profession has an obligation to honour and that  it  should assist  in  providing a medical service to the Australian public at the lowest price so long as doctors receive a fair return. Although doctors are a very  important  section of the community they in turn owe something to the country. Subject to the return and the conditions being fair, doctors should co-operate with the Government, be it Labor or Liberal,  and  endeavour to provide proper benefits for  the  people. 
I believe that Australia wants  a  health scheme which will provide a proper service at a cost which the community can afford to pay - a scheme which meets the  Deeds  of the entire community regardless of age or income. This scheme does not measure up to those standards. On behalf of the Opposition I support the amendment. I hope the Government will accept  it,  because  it  is designed to ensure that all people get necessary medical attention irrespective of their income. 
Mir DALY - The honourable member for North Sydney has asked me whether I accept the nationalised scheme. Whichever scheme suits the Australian people and provides the coverage they need in time of sickness is acceptable to me. A cry of that kind will not get the honourable member anywhere. The people want a good medical scheme. They voted for one at the last election. This was proved by the loss of seats on the Government side of the chamber. I hope that this amendment will be a further step towards putting a Labor government in office in order to give effect to the great health programme outlined by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I direct a question to the Minister for External Affairs. Will he protest on behalf of the Australian people to the  President  of the United States of America against the slaughter of 4 students at Kent University, Ohio, by National Guardsmen while the students were exercising their democratic right to dissent from American policy in Cambodia and Vietnam? Will he also assure the House that police will not use firearms against those engaged in the Moratorium Campaign in the event of violence which may result because of the inflammatory and provocative statements made by Government supporters against those who seek an end to the war in Vietnam and object to the invasion of Cambodia by United States forces? 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  has made a delayed appearance in the debates after hibernating following upon a rather extraordinary trip to South Africa. By one of those remarkably fortunate coincidences I have his file before me. I think I should read parts of it to the House to show what type of honourable member it is who has just attacked members of the Labor Party, people who fight for democracy in this country, prominent church men, editors of Catholic newspapers and others as being Communists and supporters of a fifth column in this country. Already a minister of religion has taken out a writ against the honourable member for outrageous and libellous statements. Today the honourable member listed amongst those whom he said were in the fifth column myself and other honourable members on this side of the Parliament who support the Moratorium. He listed 
Catholic and Protestant clergymen who support it. He listed John Ryan of the editorial board of the 'Catholic Worker' of Melbourne and numerous others who support this fight against the Government's policy and the American policy in Vietnam. If any member of the Parliament but the honourable member for Boothby had mentioned these matters we would take him seriously. But the honourable member is discarded and disowned by his own members because no more McCarthy-like or Fascist statements have been made in this Parliament in my time than those that have come from the honourable member fdr Boothby. 
Let us look at this member who has just spoken. He said he finds it difficult to be with us. I can assure the House that I do not want to be with him in any other place than this Parliament. He went to South Africa. I have the report of an interview he had in that country. He was being interviewed on television and he was asked: 
How similar do you think Australia and southern Africa are both in climate and outlook and so on? 
He said: 
Well, we are very similar as far as climate and people and in outlook, but politically we're a little different, I think. You're much more advanced in some ways than we are. At the moment we are almost a Communist state. Sounds incredible doesn't it? 
We can see the honourable member's little eyes twinkling as he said that on television. Then he said: 
Oh, I deplore it. And it's interesting to come and see the way that you've got on top of this problem. In fact, I'm taking home some of your pieces of legislation, and 1 aim to introduce them as Private Members' Bills to see if we can do something about this. We've got three Communist Parties in Australia and they've subverted the trade-union movement, churches, universities and, I am afraid, some of the Press. 
If there are three Communist Parties in Australia I will tell this House who they are. They are the Liberal Party, The Democratic Labor Party and the Country Party; and I will tell honourable members why. 
Their policies are to trade with the enemy, to sell strategic metal, chemicals, scrap iron, tallow, wheat and other essential goods to China and wool and wheat to Russia and others who they 'say are our enemies. They have secret police eavesdropping on and tapping the telephones of political opponents throughout this country. They restrict the movement of visitors to various parts of our nation, such as Pine Gap. The movements of their political opponents are restricted. There is censorship and in every way the society in which we live under this Government might be said to be a Communist type, if we take the honourable member's views correctly. There is refusal to grant citizenship to people. There is imprisonment for political beliefs. There is centralisation of power. There is the promotion of rivals to other positions. There is brainwashing in this country. There is imprisonment of 20-year olds who are conscripted to go and fight for people of the type of the honourable member we have just listened to in this Parliament. There is suppression of the right to dissent. There is use of the police. There is smear and character assassination. There is imprisonment of demonstrators and conscientious objectors and there is water torture for prisoners of war. 
I move: 
That the Deputy Leader of the Opposition be now heard. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I rise to order. I moved that motion before the Treasurer rose and you gave me the call. In accordance with the Standing Orders I exercise my right. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I take a point of order- 
-I move dissent from your ruling. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker- 
 I move: 
That the Minister for External  Affairs  be not further heard. 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Deputy Leader of the Opposition moving a motion. 
 I second that motion. 
The reasons given by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  for bringing this measure forward as urgent are spurious in the extreme. Even as late as today those in the Government ranks cannot agree to support the measure that is before the Parliament. As the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has said, we have been treated to displays of ugly brawling and sordid intrigue in the Liberal Party, in relation to this measure, the appointment of a full time lobbyist by the Australian Medical Association in King's Hall to instruct and direct Government supporters on this measure and in every way to create the dissension and the dissatisfaction that has forced it to bring the measure into the House. The real reason for bringing this measure before the House now is that the Government wants to get rid of it as quickly as possible. Discussion of the measure contains all the seeds of rebellion in the Parliament. The Minister could not afford to bring the Bill to the Parliament clause by clause because he knows he would be deserted and defeated on the floor of the Parliament by defectors from within his own ranks. I defy any honourable member on the Government side to say that is not true. I defy any member on the Government side to say that he supports the Bill. The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  is almost a nervous wreck in regard to the presentation of the Bill. In fact, the doctors have to give him a needle to keep him going because he is so distraught about The whole matter. 
What does the Government say now? After a recess of 6 months it brings forward a measure with 55 clauses and 42 pages of schedules to be debated in about 6 hours. Members on this side of the Parliament would have no chance to debate it. Not one member on the Government side will have time to speak in the period allowed for discussion of the clauses except the Minister for Health. That means that the ministry is silencing its backbenchers, and the few rebels among them are sitting as quiet as mice today. They are being gagged by their ministry and they are not prepared to show - at least openly in this Parliament - that dissension exists in the Government's ranks. Why does the Government want to avoid a debate on the measure? Why does it not allow members to exercise their rights? 
Every member on this side of the Parliament and on the other side has the right to speak twice in the Committee stage. It is easily seen that if that were allowed to happen it would bring to light many features of this legislation which should be amended, and therefore the Government seeks at this stage to stop any kind of dissection of the measure whereby we might show the public many of the failings in the legislation. What about the Opposition's 30 amendments? Each one has been carefully thought out and designed to protect the public interest. All have been prepared by experts in our ranks, including 5 prominent members of the medical profession. The Government knows that penetrating amendments that would have been moved by the Opposition would show up the incompetence of the Minister for Health and the features of this Bill which are not in the public interest. I congratulate the Government for realising the dangers to it inherent in having a decent debate take place in this way, but I would have had more respect for the Minister in charge of the debate had he been honest and said: 'We are frightened of the Opposition in this matter'. 
I am certain that all members of the Parliament sympathise with and support the point of view expressed by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  about the need to look after and protect the welfare of our aged people. Members of the Opposition have clear consciences but the honourable member and those members who sit behind him have much to answer for because of their neglect of this deserving section of society and their failure to give aged people an adequate income during this age of affluence and -prosperity about which the Government boasts. However, I did not rise to discuss this matter but to deal with the problem of aircraft noise, representing as I do the suburbs of Leichhardt, Annandale, Petersham, Newtown, Marrickville, Sydenham, St Peters, Erskineville and Lewisham. I suppose that my electorate would be right on the flight path of planes entering and leaving Mascot. I am concerned with the increased traffic over this district in recent weeks. Undoubtedly it has intensified in a way that is difficult to understand. 
I should like to ask the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton):  What instructions have been given to the pilots of aircraft regarding their arrival and departure from Mascot aerodrome? Have they been instructed to fly over residential areas or to avoid them wherever possible? Have they been told to use the entry from the sea, or are they given no instructions at all? I have gained the impression from complaints that I have received from people living right under the flight path that if instructions have been given to pilots to safeguard the welfare of people by flying around residential areas the pilots have ignored the instructions or not carried them out. The Minister should have an inquiry made immediately into whether instructions have been given, whether aircraft are flying over my electorate in defiance of orders that have been given to avoid thickly populated areas, and to see whether pilots are doing as they are instructed in respect of these matters or are taking the easy way out. I will quote from a few of the hundreds of letters 1 have received on this subject. The first is from a resident of Leichhardt. This is what the writer stated: 
I noted with interest that  Mr Ansett  is desperately seeking 24-hour landings in the name of progress. I have recorded these shattering experiences on several days last week; there were 94 passed directly over my street from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. 1 am asking is it possible that all of these planes are passenger flights, or how many are cargo, and if so why can't the cargo flights be diverted to another strip. 1 have another here from the Managing Director of a factory at Sydenham which states: 
At approximately 3 p.m. on Monday 20tb April a plane leaving Mascot caused so much vibration when flying low over our factory that a three foot fluorescent tube was again dislodged from the ceiling, fortunately as previously no-one was injured. 
Here is another letter from a resident of my district which states: 
It is a most wicked and impudent imposition to inflict on society; and for the law to allow such pests to ply their transport money making business at the expense of the suffering public is ridiculous and stupid and must be stopped by those in power to do so. Jets and airplanes flying overhead every few minutes are a constant danger to life and property. This is proved as we pick up the papers daily, to say nothing of the injury that is being caused to people's health; and it is mainly for this reason I am writing- 
A lady from the Marrickville section of my district stated: 
We have been here 3 years and in this time the noise has increased 500%. It is almost unbearable for very young, very old, the sick and convalescents, workers 6 a.m. until 10 p.m. each day. 
I am referring to just a cross section of the letters I have received. I have here another from the Reverend Hawkins, Director of the Leichhardt Methodist Homes and Institutions, a very prominent citizen in that part of my electorate. He said: 
In the first place, let mc tell you that it is almost impossible to conduct divine worship in Leichhardt without having at least four or five distinct breaks in the service. Yesterday in preaching a  20 minute sermon at the morning serviceI had to completely stop on four occasions, the same thing happening in the evening. 
Planes pass over here between 6 a.m. and 10.30 p.m., on an average of two every quarter of an hour. As one is passing overhead, another is in sight. This happens sometimes 3 or 4 days in succession, and then we will get a break. 
The Minister at the table on one occasion made one of his orations at Leichhardt - it was a rather good one on that occasion -and had to pause in the middle of his great contribution while several planes passed overhead. The fact is that the Grayndler electorate includes many rest homes, factories, aged persons homes, schools and colleges. It is one of the most heavily populated areas of Sydney. It is time the Government did something to ascertain whether pilots are ignoring their instructions or are taking the easy course and flying wherever it suits them. I must confess that I am a pioneer in this campaign against aircraft noise. Tonight I turned up Hansard and found this entry in the report of proceedings on 9th September 1953: 

 Mr Daly presented a petition from certain residents of Mascot, New South Wales, praying that action be taken by the Department of Civil Aviation to alleviate danger and noise from lowflying aircraft in that vicinity. 
I suppose that so slowly and deliberately does this worn out old Administration move that it is still studying that petition. I raised the question again in the Estimates debate in 1953. On that occasion I said:   . .I wish to inform the committee of a complaint that I have received from a number of residents in the Mascot area of New South Wales concerning low-flying planes, civil and otherwise, in that district. 
On that occasion the Government gagged me. It did not want me to proceed with this great problem. The Government was inclined to laugh about planes flying low over Mascot. I remember one honourable member saying: 'Where else would they fly low?' This is not a laughing matter now; it has become one of the major problems of this day and age. Therefore tonight when I say that pilots are doing this I do not want to see Government supporters nodding their heads or smiling about it. I want the Government to do something. Not to be put off, on 21st October 1953 I said-- 
 The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  was present and heard what I said. He took no notice then and he is taking no notice tonight, which is his normal attitude in regard to anything intelligent. On 21st October 1953 I said: 
I wish to raise a matter that I have raised in this House previously. It relates to a petition I received from more than 350 residents of. my electorate, who protested in it about low-flying aeroplanes in the vicinity of certain streets in the Mascot area of Sydney. That petition brought hometo me the fact that the people in that area are in such fear and trembling as a result of the danger of lowflying aeroplanes that they were movedto collect signatures for a petition to Parliament asking that some action be taken by the Department of Civil Aviation . . . 
I expounded at some length on this subject and the speech spreadto 2 pages. Every sentence in that speech contained information which an intelligent government would have heeded. Long before the problem was generally recognised, I was bringing to the notice of this Government that aircraft noise would be a major problem. Instead of taking notice of me the Government expanded Mascot airport. The Government's action even prompted the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)to  rise in his place and say mat such expansion was a waste of money. However, aircraft had to begin flying over the wealthy homes in his electorate before he realised how some of the poor people inmy district were suffering. Thank heavens that such power and influence is now coming from the Government side of the chamber; perhaps something will be done about aircraft noise in districts such as mine. 
I have raised this matter tonight on behalf of the 125,000 people in my electorate. I believe at this stage that all of them are being affected. In recent weeks particularly the Government seems to have increased the number of planes that fly over that district. I suppose it is trying to save some of the Liberal members here suffering from this noise because it might mean that they will not again be elected to this Parliament. I know that just prior to the last Federal election pilots were instructed to fly over my electorate in order to try to save Barton and St George for the Liberal Party. However this was not possible. Those electorates were not saved for the Liberal Party even by that action. I do not wish to see aircraft again flying over the electorates of Barton and St George because people in those areas are entitled to protection as well 
There are other ways to and from Mascot airport. Aircraft can come in over the sea. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation to look into this matter. No doubt the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise in due course will bring down appropriate recommendations. In the meantime the people in my electorate want to stay alive. Tonight I suggest that the Government, through the Minister concerned, is responsible for doing something about it. He should instruct pilots, where necessary, about their responsibilities and should protect residents of electorates like mine. A local council can put a person out of business for making noise; Ansett can cause people to be sent into a mental asylum and fly higher, brighter and later. 
 I suppose that the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  would be the most reluctant rebel of our time. He consistently talks one way but votes the other. From the day I saw him come into this Parliament with a great reputation as a rebel, 1 have never seen him do anything but follow the band. Today he is doing precisely the same. I hope to live to see the day when some issue will force him to vote for the matters he espouses. 
This is a matter of political integrity and honour, not of whether we believe in States. The honourable member for Chisholm knows that this amendment has been moved by one of the most reputable men in this Parliament and in Australian politics. Yet the honourable member, whilst he believes that what that man has put forward is correct, refuses to support him by his vote. But we on this side of the Parliament do not. We have the greatest regard for the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  for having principles that he espouses and supports, quite contrary to that of the honourable member for Chisholm. 
It is interesting today to hear the Government saying how it has honoured its obligations to the States in this matter, but at this very moment in the Prime Minister's  (Mr Gorton)  office the terms of surrender are being drawn up. Ere this day is over the Prime Minister and his Party will stand in this Parliament and capitulate in line and in proof of the statements made by the honourable member for Farrer. So little is known within the Government about what the Prime Minister is doing that not even the next Minister who is going to talk will know what is happening until he sits down and finds out that everything he said was wrong under the terms of surrender. From one end of this country to the other at this moment the telephone lines are burning and men are getting onto planes. Liberals are being recalled from everywhere because the Government is in danger. It has cancelled all pairs. Today it knows that the only way of getting out of this situation is to capitulate. 
This is not a matter of policy. This is whether or not a government has honoured its obligations. Today in this Parliament the censure motion that I support was not brought on by members on this side of the House. It was raised by the honourable member for Farrer. The honourable member for Farrer has given the members of his Party who are consistently sniping at the Prime Minister and saying that they will bring him down the opportunity on a great matter of honour to stand in this Parliament with him today and bring down a Government that has forfeited the respect of the Australian people and the respect of all State administrators in Australia. 
Let us have a look at the honourable member for Farrer. No man denies that he is a man of integrity and honour. Already he has suffered for his principles by refusing to serve under the Prime Minister and today he is prepared to risk his political future, because of honour and integrity, by voting against this Government on this well deserved motion. He is no friend of the Labor Party, as he said in his speech earlier today, but he is prepared to back his point of view and his honour by a vote which he knows must place in jeopardy his political future, and I hope the political future of most of those who sit opposite me. Let me make this quite clear: Let no honourable member who sits behind the Government treat this charge lightly. The honourable member for Farrer, respected and admired by friend and enemy, has charged this Government, which sent him as a Minister to give certain undertakings, with dishonouring them. In addition to that he not only says so but he supports the charge by reading from the minutes of the conference which was held and he quoted the names of every State Minister for Mines - every one a Liberal - and every State Attorney-General in support of the fact that this Government stands condemned in the eyes of the Australian people as one which will not support the views or the obligations which it enters into. 
The Opposition supports the honourable member for Farrer, not because we like him but because we on this side of the Parliament are men of integrity and honour. The Labor Party, in government and in opposition, honours its obligations to the people of Australia. I for one regret to see this once great Party bickering in public on great issues. It is disturbing and sorrowful. Today the Parliament is held up for a full day because a dispute which should have been settled with honour and integrity in the Party room has been brought into the Parliament as the Prime Minister, too blind to see and to realise that his honour is at stake, refused to fight this matter where it should have been fought. Today we witness in public the spectacle of this once great Party bickering in a way that to some extent confounds us but at the same time distresses every true democrat in the place. 
On this issue honourable members opposite know as well as I do that they have had Party meeting after Party meeting, and today the honourable member for Farrer has stated in this House that ali kinds of pressure has been exerted upon him to capitulate, that whispering campaigns were started against him. The Press has been full of headlines such as 'Fairbairn may go overseas' - anywhere to get the man of honour and integrity out of the Parliament. The Liberal Party does not want men of that type and that is why it wants to send the honourable member for Farrer to any post in the world as long as it is not here in Canberra - because judged on performances here today men of integrity in the Liberal Party are like lost sheep. 
Why is this debate taking place? lt is not because of anything that the Labor Party has done. It is because the Prime Minister has said: 'I do not believe the honourable member for Farrer. 1 think he was completely wrong, and so far as I am concerned you can take it or leave it and it is going through.' Not only did he say that in order that he might get his own way on this issue; he was trying out the rebels in his ranks to see whether they would continue to snipe at him as they have in days gone by. Therefore, we are held up here on this issue by Government members, some of whom are at this stage hurrying back from all over Australia while in the Prime Minister's room - drawn up like the capitulation of Japan, as it were - the terms of surrender are being written line by line. Ere this day is over I do not think that it will be the Labor Party which will triumph. The honourable member for Farrer will be proven in this Parliament to be correct despite what a Minister said not 10 minutes ago in this place, lt is a pity someone does not tell the 
Ministry what is happening, because it is quite obvious from the way in which they talk that they do not know - and they certainly do not know in relation to this crisis that is before us today. 
Let us again have a look at the position of the honourable member for Farrer. The most mysterious man in all these discussions has been the former Attorney-General. He was with the honourable member for Farrer, but today he more or less came quietly into the Parliament. He looked as though somebody had dragged him in because while all this discussion has been taking place we heard no mention of the former Attorney-General. On Monday, 1 1th May. the editorial of the 'Canberra Times' had this to say:  . .  Mr Bowen,  then the Attorney-General and now Minister for Education and Science and a member of the Cabinet. Did not  Mr Bowen  inform his colleagues that  Mr Fairbairn  had given this undertaking, and if not, why not? In fact, who besides  Mr Fairbairn  and the State Ministers did know of the commitment? 
Why did not the Attorney-General come into this Parliament previously. I would say that he was what might be termed a hostile witness by reason of the fact that today he was uncertain in his presentation. He is a lawyer of great eminence. He should have a very good memory. He is paid highly to have it, and he learnt at great expense to the Australian public, and probably others. But today he was uncertain. 1 think that the terms of surrender - if T might use an unfortunate term - will make a donkey out of the Attorney-General. 
I meant the former Attorney-General. 
1 mean the Minister for Education and Science. 
I certainly will,  Mr Speaker.  Not for a moment would I put you off-side at this stage. If the terms of surrender about which I heard are drawn up, I would say that the evidence today of the Minister for Education and Science will prove that he is not the only member of the Ministry who is completely wrong in relation to the interpretation of the situation presented by the honourable member for Fairer. The honourable member for Farrer made some statements in his speech on Friday, 8th March, which he has repeated today. Those statements should be read again by every person who believes in honour and integrity in this Parliament. Let me quote one or two, if not for members of this House, then for the huge listening audience that I know I have at this time: He said: 
I was authorised by Cabinet to make an offer to the States at that meeting. That offer was that the States should retain control of mineral resources of the territorial seabed . . . 
That is a pretty clear statement for a Minister of the Crown to make. He went on to say: 
I undertook to refer this proposal back to Cabinet and also undertook that before the Commonwealth took any action there would be further consultation with the States. 
That is quite definite and clear. I sec that the honourable member is leaving the chamber now to be consulted by Cabinet on this matter. He went on and said: 
Two points emerge from this. Firstly, I did not commit the Commonwealth as David Fairbairn; I committed it as the Minister for National Development, authorised and instructed by Cabinet to act as the Commonwealth's negotiator. 
That is a very pertinent and definite statement to make. Will any honourable member opposite say today that the former Minister was thinking loosely on this matter? He was quoting from the minutes of the proceedings and from the documents. He is not only a man of integrity, he has more capacity than most of the present members of the Ministry put together. His memory is good and agile on these matters. He goes on to refer to the second question by saying: 
If it was, was this commitment honoured? I have heard it argued that the undertaking I entered into was not legally binding on the commonwealth. I flatly refuse to accept that argument. 
That is a devastating statement. He went on: 
Has public morality in this country declined to such a degree that an agreement entered into by the Commonwealth is not legally binding unless it is legally enforceable? 
Is that the attitude of the Ministry? Have we sunk to that low level? I have quoted the words of a member of the Government benches. I would say that he himself would have been fully entitled to prove his point by moving in this Parliament a censure motion of the Government. He went on to say: 
If that is the position, we have come to a pretty despicable state of affairs. Is it believed in Australia today that the word of the Commonwealth Government means nothing unless those to whom this word is given have some legal means of enforcing it? How could anyone ever trust us again if that is the position? 
That is the reason why a censure motion has been moved by the Opposition today. It has nothing to do with State Parliaments as such or with the provisions of the legislation, but rather with the questions of political integrity and honesty and whether a Government should honour its obligations incurred by a Minister at conferences with State Ministers. The honourable member for Farrer went on: 1 assumed that the State Ministers would accept me as a man of honour speaking on behalf of a government of honour. 
We knew he was wrong on that a long time ago; but at the same time one would think that when he was a member of the Ministry he would have believed that the Government would honour obligations he incurred in his position. The honourable member went on to quote the words of various Ministers, each one of them a Liberal Party Minister. I appreciate that amongst Liberal Ministers in the States there are those who are not so bright, but do not tell me that every State Minister for Mines and every State Attorney-General misunderstood what the honourable member for Farrer was saying. Certainly not. The fact of the matter is that he has proved beyond doubt that he was completely right. I have quoted from the honourable member's speech at some length because the honourable member himself again referred to it today and so did the Prime Minister. The honourable member said: 
If the States cannot accept those kinds of assurances, government in this country is reaching a pretty low ebb. 
They are the words of the honourable member for Farrer, a former Minister for National Development. Later in his speech he said: 
Other suggestions try to say that the commitment has been honoured because the Minister for National Development has met the State Ministers after the decision to legislate unilaterally from the low water mark had been announced by the Commonwealth. 
As the honourable member said today, the commitment was entered into but then the Gorton Government decided that it would have a discussion with the States again after they had decided what to do. That is like shutting the stable door after the horse is out. It was understood in all honesty by the former Minister that these obligations would be honoured. When  Mr Griffith  heard the Governor-General's speech he said: 
I was quite horrified to think that matters had gone that far and 1 thought this was an abrogation of the understanding that we had with the previous Minister. 
The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen),  a Queenslander, is at the table. I wish to  quote to  him the views of one of his own Liberal Ministers. Whilst I appreciate that he is not quite one of the lovebirds of the Queensland Libera) Party I would like the Minister to comment on what  Dr Delamothe  said. He drew the attention of the meeting to a telegram sent by the Queensland Government after 2nd March. This is what the Queensland Minister said: 
Such proposal would negate the firm understanding by State Ministers at their last meeting that there would be a further meeting or meetings before legislation. 
I ask the Minister for the Navy whether he believes that the Queensland Minister was wrong. Will he believe the Prime Minister against the honourable member for Farrer? Will he say whether all these supporters of the statement by the honourable member for Farrer are completely wrong and that only the Prime Minister and Cabinet are right? The honourable member for Farrer concluded his speech by saying: lt is my belief that the honouring of Government undertakings is essential, and that if this is to be described as old fashioned morality all I can say is that the sooner we revert to a bit of obi fashioned morality the better it will be for Australia and for the governed us well as for those who do the governing. 
All those charges were repeated today and they will be proved ere this day is out - under the terms of surrender. I suggest to honourable members representing the Country Party that they should not laugh about this matter. The Country Party is significant for contributing only one halfhearted speech on this issue. I do not blame them; for once they are showing a bit of sense. If they keep quiet nobody will know what they really think about this mess. Nobody will really know what they think about the mess that the Prime Minister has got them into. Everybody knows that at this moment the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  is outside the chamber whipping around amongst the Liberals and others trying to drum some sense into them. He has not got much sense to give away but he knows that they have less. I will say, with due respect, that the one time honourable members opposite look like a government is when he takes over. But he cannot take over long enough, unfortunately, probably, for the Country Party and other people. 
I have mentioned the issues that we must look at in order to sum up this situation. Let us now reach a verdict as to whether the honourable .member for Farrer is right and whether the motion the Opposition has moved regarding the honour and integrity of the Government is correct, or whether the Prime Minister and his Government should continue in office. I remind honourable members opposite and the people of Australia that this is the opportunity to defeat a Government that has forfeited the complete confidence of a lot of its own supporters and undoubtedly the overwhelming majority of the Australian people. 
The honourable member for Farrer has laid charges against the Government. He is accepted without challenge by every honourable/ member opposite and every honourable member on this side of the chamber as a person of honesty and integrity.  His  word is supported by facts from the minutes and by statements from State Ministers for Mines and Liberal AttorneysGeneral. That is the evidence on which he bases his charge. Against him we have the Prime Minister who said: You will take it or leave it. 1 have the numbers and we want the leases to be as we desire.' We have heard the former Attorney-General, the Minister for Education and Science. As I said before, he fits into the category of a hostile witness. The new Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has been holding that portfolio only long enough to read the papers so his evidence must be discounted. Then we heard other Ministers. They came in and supported the Government but they know nothing about this matter other than the information that the Prime Minister has given to them. 
Against that you have the statement, backed up and supported by the honourable member for Farrer, that a promise was given and that the undertaking was not honoured. He has put his political future on the line. He has already suffered because of his political beliefs. The Labor Party says that if he is prepared to take this course there must be substance in his statement and therefore his action deserves to be supported by all who believe in political integrity. 
I hope that ere this day is out the Government will be out of office following the carriage of a resolution that stands for the very principle of democratic government. A government ought to be out of office once it loses its honour and integrity, when it will not honour its obligations, when it endeavours to force legislation through in the manner that this Government does, when it throws out of office men of reputation and integrity because they differ from the Prime Minister and when its members and supporters bring the bickerings from their Party meetings into the public place. I hope this motion will be carried in order to vindicate the honourable member for Farrer - in order to vindicate all who support integrity and honesty in government - and, at the same time, for once in a while give this country a chance to get going. 
Today has been a day of crisis for the Government. I think it is right at this time that we should sum up the machinations and the sordid intrigue-- 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
One must listen with some interest to amendments moved by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  because when all is said and done he is a man in principle. He said that he would not serve under the Prime Minister  (Mr 
Gorton) in the lowly position of Deputy Whip. However, he found out last week that supporting his principles had consequences. So he adopted a very simple theory; he gave away the principles. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to amend and revise the Second Schedule to the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1952-68. At present an electoral allowance of $2,750 is paid to a member of the House of Representatives whose electorate is classified as city and $3,350 per annum to a member whose electorate is classified as country. The Second Schedule of the Act, which it is proposed to amend, lists electorates for which the lower or city rate is to be paid. Other electorates not listed are all paid at the country rate. The amendments are made necessary because of changes made to the electorates following the redistribution of boundaries in 1968. At that time some electorates were abolished, new electorates were created, names were changed and the character of some electorates was altered. 
The amendment to the Second Schedule takes account of these changes according to the Government's interpretation of city and country electorates. .1 again mention according to the Government's interpretation of city and country electorates', lt is stressed, however, that the amendments do not provide for any change in the base rates- $2,750 city and $3,350 country - or the classification pattern which remains unchanged and which was established by the salary committees of inquiry of 1952, 1955 and 1959. The Bill provides for an increase in the electorate allowances for senators of $100 per annum to the city rate of $2,750. I might mention, to summarise that aspect of the legislation, that a reduction in allowances is brought about by listing 71 instead of 61 electorates in the Second Schedule. Because of the amalgamation or abolition of electorates in the old schedule and the creation of new electorates there are 20 electorates in the new schedule which were not in the old one. Therefore, the Bil) would reduce by $600 the allowances received since the election by the members for just on 20 electorates. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a list of these electorates: 
I thank the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  who is at the table. The electorates which are to be eliminated are, I. stress, amongst the areas with the highest rate of growth in the various States in which they are located. In other words, they are the electorates where it may be expected that the greatest growth in population will come, yet, the electorate allowance has been taken from their representatives under this new proposal. 
In addition to the matters I have mentioned the Bill clarifies the provisions of the Act in regard to the limits for this time during which both allowances in the nature of salary and electorate allowance are payable to members and senators. Clause 3 inserts a new section specifying, for the purpose of paying allowances, 'the day of election' is polling day, or when there is no poll, the day the result is declared. Thi: has applied to parliamentary allowances for many years. The Bill, as the Minister for the Army has said, confirms tha existing practice. Secondly, following the redistribution of 196S attention was drawn to the term 'successor' and to doubts arising in cases of changes of boundaries as to the identity of each successor. This doubt is removed by amending clause 5 to ensure that a member will be paid his allowance until the day before the day of his reelection or if he is not re-elected the day before polling day. Those, broadly, are the terms of the legislation under discussion. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. I say so somewhat reluctantly because, as I shall explain later, I believe electorate allowances for all members of this Parliament are completely inadequate in view of the changes that have taken place. The fact that we do not oppose the Bill, though, should not be taken as an indication that we are satisfied with its provisions or that it is not subject to a very critical analysis for a number of good reasons. The measure, of course, being a money Bill cannot be amended at this stage in the Parliament. I shall outline our reasons for this approach as the debate proceeds. I say at this stage that it is the considered opinion of the Opposition that the amendments proposed are based on guesswork. They reveal no sound basis in support of some of the changes and the time is long overdue for a thorough, searching survey into the basis of the allowances with the object of establishing a more equitable and just basis to enable members and senators - city and country - to fulfil their parliamentary and electoral responsibilities effectively. 
The present Schedule of the Act includes the names of 61 electorates, for which allowances at the city rate of $2,750 is payable. The new Schedule totals 71 - an increase of 10. This means that there has been a saving in allowances of $600 per annum in 10 electorates or, $6,000 in all by transferring 10 electorates from the country to the city. The number of country electorates, excluding a newly created seat, has been reduced by 10, balancing the saving. For the information of the House I quote figures given to me by the Prime Minister's Department. They show that the expenditure under the old Act for city electorates, country electorates and senators was $537,800. The amount under this proposal is exactly the same, with the addition of 1 country seat, which means an extra $3,350. In other words it is given with one hand and taken away with the other. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate these details in Hansard: 

<graphic href="067131197005213_58_3.jpg"></graphic>

The number of country electorates, excluding a newly created seat, has been reduced by 10, as I stated, balancing the saving. I might say that senators have been granted an extra $100 per annum to bring them into line with the city rate of $2,750. This means that with 60 senators the total additional payment for senators, by a remarkable coincidence, is exactly $6,000 per annum - the exact amount saved by increasing the number of city seats under the Act from 61 to 71, mainly in areas which have the most rapidly increasing population in Australia. In other words, the increase to the senators has been made possible at no cost to the Government. I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  on his ingenuity in this matter. But the increase is actually subsidised by reducing the allowances paid to members of the House of Representatives, many of them, I repeat, in the fastest growing areas on a population basis in Australia. 
This proves beyond doubt that the Government has no sound basis for the classification of electorates. It has been carried out by a system of eeny, meeny, miney, mo or you stay in or out you go. It is as simple as that. That is the basis of the Government's policy generally, and it has carried it through to the electorate allowances. No amount of argument by the Minister can prove the contrary. The figures which were provided to me by the Prime Minister and which I have had incorporated in Hansard prove the point I have made, lt is a juggling system based on guesswork. As I say, it is a system of eeny, meeny, miney, mo. Whilst agreeing that under the present legislation an amendment may be necessary, it should be on an equitable and proper basis and should not be done by subterfuge and juggling as has been done in this case. 
The simple procedure adopted by the Government to provide for the senators was that when they were $600 short some electorates were classified on a catch as catch can basis as city electorates in order to balance the budget. I will be very surprised if senators are happy to find that, representing a whole State as they do, they are now worth only the allowance of an inner city member, which is the lowest possible rate in the nation. As the Act stands at present, because of redistribution, it includes names of electorates that have been abolished in the second schedule such as Dally and East Sydney in New South Wales and does not include other newly created seats such as Berowra and Cook in NSW or Holt in Victoria, just to mention a few. The position is similar in most States. 
This means that under the Act, as it stands at present, some members representing city electorates are being paid the country allowance pending the amendment to the Act. Somewhat regretfully I say today that when this Bill goes through my colleague the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  will be about $50 a month worse off under the juggling system. I do not think that gentleman can afford such a reduction because he has a big electorate and is a very active member. This indicates the suffering that will be caused in respect of this matter by the Government's process. 
This applies to some newly named or created city seats in all States such as Sydney and Berowra in New South Wales. 
The members in these electorates are in fact being overpaid what is due to them as an electorate allowance, and will continue to receive their present allowance until the Act is amended. But on the brighter side, let me say that there is no requirement that they refund the extra amount. This would appear to make the amendment desirable, depending on how it is looked at. But at the same time it raises the question: Is a new method of classification desirable and overdue? Are wide open spaces and distances such as those represented by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  to be the only criteria for deciding the allowance, or should it be based on a population or some other basis? 
One may well pose this question: Is not representation of people just as expensive in heavily populated city electorates as in sparse and far flung country areas? I do not say that this is necessarily the case, but at least it is worth a full and complete investigation. Let me briefly state the history of the electorate allowance. The Nicholas Committee reported on parliamentary allowances in 1952. On page 12 of its report, it said: 
We recommend that each senator and each representative receive an allowance of 1,750 per annum, an addition of 250 per annum to the allowance at present received; litis sum to be liable to a statutory deduction in respect of the weekly contribution to the member's retiring allowance fund and to income tax. We further recommend that each member receive an annual sum not liable to taxation or to statutory deduction which would supersede any deduction for expenses now made by the Commissioner for Taxation. In the case of a senator we recommend that the sum payable be 550 per annum. In order to determine the tax free amount to be paid to a member of the Mouse of Representatives we recommend that electorates be divided into 5 groups and (hat each member bc paid the amount tax free set out below, opposite the number of the group in which his electorate is included. 
Il then listed 5 groups, and the allowances ranged from 400 to at that time to 900. Then it said - and I do not think the senators could have been happy with this: 
We formed the opinion that a senator, although he represents the State as one electorate, is not faced with the same calls nor is he so closely in contact with his constituents as a member of the House of Representatives. 
I quote that in connection with the commencement of the electorate allowance. The 
Richardson Committee in 1956 brought down further recommendations in respect of this matter. It said: 
We consider that all members representing country electorates should be paid the same rate of electorate allowance. 
In other words, it divided them into city and country. The report goes on: 
We feel that senators are in an intermediate category and a separate recommendation is made in their case. 
That is when the senators came within the scope of the Act. The report goes on: 
The Nicholas Committee accepted a division of electorates identical with that compiled after detailed investigation by the Commissioner of Taxation. This Committee considers that all group 1 electorates (see Appendix  b)  should at this stage be regarded as city electorates and all others as country electorates. The redistribution of electorates may affect this classification. 
In other words it divided them into city and country on facts or figures provided by the Commissioner of Taxation. Because that Committee did not believe in tax-free allowances, the allowances paid to members became officially known as 'electorate allowances'. In 1959 the Richardson Committee fixed new figures for the allowances. They recommended that senators should be paid 700 per annum, members for city electorates 600 per annum, and members for country electorates 800 per annum. In the course of its report the Committee said: 
The 1955 Committee considered that no section of the community should receive as an allowance for expenses any sum which was statutorily exempt from tax, and recommended that, in addition to the basic salary of 2,350 to be paid to each senator and member, electorate allowances should be paid ... 
It is interesting to see what these electorate allowances are supposed to cover. In its report the Richardson Committee said: 
The Electorate Expense Allowance is designed to reimburse a member for outgoings necessarily incurred in the performance of his duties as a member and which are not otherwise specifically provided for. 
It said that the allowance should cover, for instance, postage. The postage expenses of all members is now practically double what it was then because of the number of electorates plus the number of requests that are made. But that is one expense that must be covered. Politicians must be the only section of business representatives in the world who pay for their own postage. The better the member you are, the more letters you write and the less salary you are working for. 
Then the Committee said that travelling within an electorate should come within the scope of the allowance. A city member uses his own car, public transport or hire cars and taxi cabs. A country member, the report says, necessarily uses his own car. I will not go into all the other expenses that are supposed to come out of his electorate allowance. According to the Committee, it is supposed to cover donations and subscriptions. The 1955 Committee said that this was a big part of a member's expenditure and that in many cases it amounted to political blackmail. Then a member is expected to pay for telephone rental and local calls from his own home out of this allowance. The Committee said that in the case of country members the allowance should cover travelling expenses and accommodation during trips within the electorate. Every body admits that this is a big item in the yearly budget of a country member. Then the Committee referred to members who desire to visit the Territories. Members may visit the Territories once every three years, but a trip to New Guinea is a pretty costly one to meet out of one's own pocket. 
The electorate allowance of $2,750 not only has to cover every aspect of electoral representation within an electorate; it also must be used to gain information about the multiplicity of problems of which parliamentarians are expected to have knowledge today. Entertainment expenses are included in the electorate allowance, amongst other things, but election expenses are not included. In this respect the report stated: 
The expense of conducting elections is a necessary incident of a Member's employment. It occurs at least every third year; it is (within certain limits) allowed by the Commissioner of Taxation as a statutory deduction; it causes many Members to get into debt; and it might be considered that provision for it should be included in the amount of the expense allowance. We have felt unable to adopt this view, because it is wrong in principle that a silting Member  should  have his election expenses paid out of the public purse, while his opponents enjoy no such advantage. 
I repeat that this allowance does not include election expenses, which undoubtedly are a big item. The committee went on to say: 
The rates which we recommend are in our opinion no more than sufficient to ensure that Members shall have available for the maintenance of themselves and their families, for the upkeep of their homes, for the education of their children, and for other outgoings normally paid by persons in private employment out of their remuneration, the full amount of their parliamentary salaries (less, of course, the compulsory Retiring Allowance contributions). 
Broadly, that is the history of this Act. Further on this report states: 
These rates also should enable Members to undertake service on parliamentary committees and visits to Territories and developmental projects, which at present are denied to many of them simply because they cannot bear the expenses involved. In short, we believe the recommended rates would help Members generally to do a better job for the community. 
That is a rather extensive outline of the matter we are debating today. I ask any honourable member representing a city electorate whether, in all fairness, he can run his car, do all the things I have mentioned, see the Territories and give effective parliamentary representation with an allowance of $2,750. At the same time I ask country members whether their allowance pays much more than the cost of replacing a car, plus the running costs involved over a period. True it is that one can get deductions for certain things if you keep a note of every item. But when you are buying a beer in a soldiers club how can you jot down 15c or 20c every time you put your hand in your pocket? 
I think it is generally agreed that the allowance is inadequate. I am surprised that the Government did not look into this when it thought of the new responsibility. One fact stands out from these reports, that is, that there is no such thing as an official definition of a country electorate. One may surmise or take for granted that areas such as the electorates of Kalgoorlie, Darling, Mallee and Kennedy would fit into the average person's idea of a country electorate. But what of some electorates on the fringe of the cities which are half and half such as Werriwa, Cunningham and Prospect in New South Wales, and others of a similar nature in other States? Your guess is as good as mine as to whether they are country or city electorates. There is room for differences of opinion. It may well be that the basis for the payment of an electorate allowance should be population, with special consideration being given to members with huge areas and distances to cover in the form of an extra travelling allowance or some other allowance. Perhaps the electorates should be divided into several categories as they were in the first place, such as inner city, urban, inner country area and far flung country districts. 
Another fact stands out. No member of Parliament or senator should be placed at a financial disadvantage simply because he does his work diligently and effectively. The present system does not remove this disability. The redistribution of Federal electorates did not provide for any definition as between country and city electorates. In other words, each State was considered as a whole. There appears to be no requirement b the Act making it mandatory for electorates to be defined as city and country electorates. The only reference in this regard is in the amendment to the Electoral Act, No. 48 of 1965. Incidentally, the relevant section was forced on the Liberal Party by the Country Party at the end of a political shot gun. Section 19(1.) of that Act states: 
In making any proposed distribution of a State into Divisions, the Distribution Commissioners shall so determine the proposed Divisions that each Division contains a number of electors not exceeding, or falling short of, the quota of electors by more than one fifth of the quota. 
The section goes on to provide that certain matters, such as community of interest, shall be given consideration. This is the closest it gets to defining a country electorate. There is no definition. Those words may be taken to mean a country electorate but the Act does not say so. That is why the Act refers only to electorates in the Second Schedule of the Act One may well ask: What is a country electorate? 
Whilst the salary reports in 1952, 1956 and 1959 had in mind city and country electorates when providing for different rates of allowances, it is significant that section 5(2.) of the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1952-1968 does not designate them as such but uses these words: if he is a member of an electoral division specified in the Second Schedule of this Act 
This means that no firm line is laid down for classification and electorates may be changed on application by regulation, as was done in the case of the Australian Capital Territory - which was not designated as a country electorate in the 1952 report - and, later, with the electorates of Hunter and Shortland. 
The anomaly and injustice of the present Act does not apply only to the definition of city and country electorates. There are glaring anomalies in the payment of electorate allowances for country electorates of varying areas and population and also for senators. 1 want to quote a few examples. The electorate of Darling, with an area of 132,642 square miles, receives the same electorate allowance as the electorate of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr Janes)  with an area of 559 square miles. In Queensland, the electorate of Kennedy, with 247,500 square miles, is on a par with the electorate of McPherson which covers 2,270 square miles. In Western Australia, the electorate of Kalgoorlie, covering an area of 897,815 square miles, attracts an allowance equivalent to that paid to the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan),  who represents an area of 15,670 square miles. Again, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  with an area of 520,280 square miles and a population of 68,000, receives an allowance equivalent to that paid to the member for the Australian Capital Territory, with an area of 939 square miles and a population of 122,000. 
Does anyone suggest that similar allowances should be paid to members representing these widely differing electorates and areas? Is it to be said that the costs involved are the same in Kalgoorlie as they are in Hunter, and the same in the Northern Territory as they are in the Australian Capital Territory, or should some arrangement be made whereby huge expansive areas receive extra allowances tapering down according to the needs of the electorate? 
Let us look at the situation which faces senators. The figures I propose to cite are as at 30th June 1969. New South Wales has an area of 309,433 square miles and a population of 4,478,800, yet the senators from New South Wales receive the same allowance, that is $2,750, as  Mr Speaker,  the honourable member for Phillip  (Sir William Aston),  who represents an area of 5 square miles and a population of 93,850. Queensland covers an area of 667,000 square miles and a population of 1,768,000. Senators from Queensland receive the same allowance as that paid to the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  who represents an area of 15 square miles and a population of 100,313. Victoria has an area of 87,884 square miles and a population of 3,384,100, Senators representing Victoria receive the same allowance as the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  whose electorate covers 9 square miles and embraces a population of 92,930. South Australia covers 380,070 square miles and has a population of 1,144,400. Senators from South Australia are paid on the same basis as the honourabe member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  whose electorate covers 18 square miles and has a population of 95,530. Western Australia has an area of 975,920 square miles and a population of 946,400. A Western Australian senator receives the same as the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  whose electorate covers 28 square miles and contains a population of 91,380. The area of Tasmania is 26,383 square miles. It has a population of 388,500. Yet a senator representing Tasmania receives the same allowance as the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  whose electorate covers 53 square miles and has a population of 75,450. 
Senators represent an entire State. It is true that there are 10 senators for each State but the States are not divided into 10 sections. Therefore it is reasonable to assume that they are expected to give electoral representation to every square mile of their State and to every electorate. Yet we find that senators are on the lowest rate of all - that of a city member whose area, in 1 case, covers no more than 5 square miles. 
One fact stands out crystal clear in this argument and that is that it is time that a full inquiry was made into electoral allowances. It is beyond doubt that every honourable member, whether he represents a city or country electorate, and every senator at present may justifiably claim that the present arrangements and payments are inequitable and insufficient. They are unjustifiable above all else because the whole basis is decided on guesswork. One may again ask the question: Do a member's expenses for discharging his duties depend on area and location? That seems to have been the sole criterion hitherto in assessing allowances. Or do they depend on the character, growth and size of its population? It may truly be said that aliens and infants, who may number thousands in many electorates, generate as many representations and expenses per head as do citizens and adults. To elaborate, I ask: What makes work? What costs money for representation? Is it people, distance, and activity of the member, or a combination of all these factors? 
Let me give a few examples of what I mean. The electorate of Sydney in the 1966 census had a population of 126,430 and in 1968 it had an enrolment of 59,967, compared to the seat of Lyne with 45,751 electors and a population of 79,730. In other words, the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  with 14,216 more electors and a population of 46,700 more, receives an allowance of $600 less than the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  The electorate of Paterson has 46,783 electors and a population of 80,170. In my electorate of Grayndler I have 13,512 more electors and 45,000 more people than the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  has and yet I receive $600 per annum less as an allowance. The seat of Wills in Victoria in 1966 had an enrolment of 58,213 and a population of 116,980, providing the member with an allowance of $600 less than that of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  whose electorate has an enrolment of 45,218 and a population of 30,750. The honourable member for Mallee has 12,995 fewer electors and 30,750 fewer people than the division of Wills. 
These cases appear to support the contention that population should be a predominant consideration, as well as area, in the allocation of electorate allowances. Every State bears out this disparity. Probably more striking examples could be given, but I quote a few in order to show the need for an inquiry and reassessment of the situation. I do not say that country members should have their allowance reduced. They need an increase. All I say is that more than guesswork is required to assess a member's needs, and the Government has a responsibility to investigate and inquire and provide a reasonable basis of adjustment instead of the trapeze act and juggling proposition that they have put before us today. 
Let us look at the senators' allowances. They are worth looking at. They are now to rise to the equivalent of those of city members under the catch as catch can basis of adjustment. Senators represent the whole State. If it is the view of the Government that electorate allowances are to be paid on an area basis, or even on a population basis, senators are entitled to the highest rate of all, whereas they have climbed only to the lowly status of a city representative. The Government cannot have it both ways. If area, acres and distance demand extra electorate allowances for country members - and it evidently accepts this principle - then senators have the highest claim. It is reasonable to say that all senators, as they are dedicated and sincere men, devote their energies to giving effective representation to the people of their State. This being so, travel, accommodation and other expenses must make heavy demands on their- resources. They must travel extensively in their own State as well as interstate in order that they may be known to their electors and be fully informed on national affairs. 
Their representation costs beyond doubt are high. In these circumstances the allowance of $100 extra per year at the expense of colleagues in the House of Represenatives is a miserable, niggardly and degrading approach to a senator's responsibilities. Furthermore, if the Government will not provide for all senators, what about those who reside in country areas and work accordingly? Would this not justify the payment of an allowance at the country rate to the senators concerned? The facts of the matter are that a member's or a senator's needs cannot be assessed by guesswork. There must be a basis, and it is time that the Government placed members and senators above the level of second class businessmen and provided adequate electorate allowances to cover all the needs of parliamentary representation in these demanding times. As an ex-senator, the Prime Minister evidently attaches little substance to the work of senators. If his appreciation of their work is to be assessed on  the  basis of an increase of SI 00 for their electoral work, made at the expense of members of the House of Representatives, then his opinion is indeed very low and their place in the political spectrum in the eyes of the Prime Minister is hardly worth a mention. 
As a comparison. 1 now want to turn to the few other matters which are relevant. Recently the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  asked a question which appears in Hansard at page 1762. He asked: 
What arc the estimates of enrolments for each of the 125 House of Representatives electoral divisions as at October 1972. based upon current rates of growth? 
The answer was given to the honourable member in some detail. The significant fact is that 84% of the electorates show an increase in population between 1969 and 1970, which means that the allowances should be subject to periodical review. The figures appear in Hansard so I do not want to incorporate them. Of all the electorates in Australia the population of only 19 have not increased in the period from 1969 to 1970. Sixteen per cent have remained stationary and, as I said, 84% have increased, but the electorate allowances are not being taken into consideration. 
I had papers compiled for me by the Parliamentary Library. They show the increases in enrolments in electoral divisions in Australia from 22nd November 1968 to 26th March 1970. Each electorate is given. In New South Wales there has been an overall increase in enrolments of 3.62%, in Victoria an increase of 4.23%, in Queensland an increase of 4.52%, in South Australia an increase of 4.15%, in Western Australia an increase of 6.98%, in Tasmania an increase of 4.98%. in the Australian Capital Territory an increase of 20.18% and in the Northern Territory an increase of 21.16%. It is interesting to note that the seat of Chifley in New South Wales has gone up in that time by 14.22% and yet that is one of the electorates that is noi designated a country electorate under these proposals. That growing electorate has been given no consideration. The enrolments for the seat of Cunningham have gone up almost 10% in that time, and yet that seat has been deleted from the country electorates despite the fact that it is not so much a borderline case as a country electorate from the viewpoint of the ordinary individual. The seat of Mackellar, which is certainly an inner city seat, has gone up by 11.52%. Yet the electorate allowance that the member should be getting is now being shared by a couple of Liberal senators by the Government's goodness. 
In Victoria the seat of Bruce is another which has been designated as a city seat. Enrolments there have gone up by 12.84%. Enrolments for the seat of Casey have gone up by 13.18%. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  is not here at the moment; he was here a short time ago. Enrolments in his electorate have gone up by 17.37% between 1968 and 1970. Yet all those seats are designated as city electorates and the money for the electorate allowance has been taken from them and given to the Senate under the strange system adopted by the Government. Enrolments in the seat of Holt have gone up by 17.25%, and in the seat of Lalor by 11.29%. That brings home the point I made earlier - that the Government has taken money from the fastest growing areas and electorates in Australia to spread $6,000 amongst the senators instead of making an overall investigation of the position and substantially increasing electorate allowances to make them commensurate with the times. 
In the seat of Petrie in Queensland there has been an increase in enrolments of 10.99% and in the seat of Ryan there has been an increase of 8.31%. I could go right through the electorates. Even in Fremantle in Western Australia there has been an increase of 8.07% and in the seat of Stirling there has been an increase of 12.04% in enrolments between 1968 and 1970. In the seat of Denison in Tasmania there has been an increase of 5.09%. All of these indicate that the position is far from being static and that the Government should do something to enable members to give adequate representation. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate those documents in Hansard. 

<graphic href="067131197005213_65_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="067131197005213_65_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="067131197005213_65_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="067131197005213_65_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="067131197005213_66_0.jpg"></graphic>

I have taken out from the same source further figures to show that in 1968 the average enrolment in electorates in Australia was 51,784. The average enrolment for the 6 States at 26th March 1970 was 53,554. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard that document setting out the average number of electors per Commonwealth electoral division, 22nd November 1968 and 26th March 1970. It is: 

<graphic href="067131197005213_66_1.jpg"></graphic>

I have quoted these figures and made these points in order to show that at a time when the population is increasing, electorate responsibilities are becoming greater. Enrolments are increasing.I leave aside the increase in population and do not take into consideration aliens, migrants and other people who are not entitled to be enrolled. But, while enrolments are increasing, the Government is doing nothing at all to enable members of the Federal Parliament to carry out their duties adequately by making available additional funds for this purpose. When all is said and done, any member with a huge migrant population within the boundaries of his electorate has more demand placed on his resources. But there is no return on that demand. That is why I say today that all the factors that 
I have quoted show that the Government has not looked at the matter but has just guessed at some figures right from the beginning. I have proved, by the figures that I have quoted, the casefor a review of these electoral allowances. The classification of electorates into city and country divisions is shown to be guesswork. No sound basis for it exists. 
I summarise my comments to the Government by saying that, whilst the Opposition does not intend to oppose this measure, this does not mean that we could not have done so justifiably and, I think, been supported by all those who believe that parliamentarians, like people in other sections of society, should be entitled to have adequate allowances paid to them in order that they may carry out their responsibilities efficiently. Parliamentary representation in this day and age presents demands and challenges not experienced or faced in other days. 1 think that that would be agreed generally. The immigration programme with its many social problems, the international scene, the need for members and senators to be freely available throughout their electorates, the increased cost of travel, population increases, larger electorates, the needs for members of Parliament to be informed electorally and on the Territories of the Commonwealth all present heavy demands on time and money. 
Members of Parliament do not desire to make a profit out of these allowances, but all must bear the cost of representation - some more than others. Country members with travelling expenses and city members with electorates that have huge populations all indicate the need for adequate, not excessive, electorate allowances. In one minor way, it does seem strange that Federal members and senators must pay for their own postal costs from the allowances provided. The better a member, the more postage he will have to pay and the less income will be received from those allowances. What  a  farcical position to place a representative in. No self-respecting businessman would pay for his own postage. It is the responsibility of the Government to give earnest consideration to the matters that I have raised. The Government should look at this Act, the cost of representation and the just claims of the members of  all  Parties for a review of representation costs. Research, secretarial assistance and matters of that kind also should come within the scope of these allowances. 
I hope that my remarks will not be taken in any political way. What I have spoken of concerns members from both sides of the Parliament. I make my submission on behalf of  all  who sit in this Parliament, because I believe that the Australian electors are entitled to full and effective representation from their representatives on both sides of this House and in the other place. Their representatives, in their turn, are entitled to adequate facilities by way of staff and allowances to give this representation. The leaders of the parties and 
Ministers in the Government are reasonably well looked after. No complaint is raised at that. But to neglect the huge number of members in the Parliament who are dependent entirely on their own resources to carry out their duties is not, I think, an example of doing the best for democracy. I conclude by saying that 1 hope that the Government will heed my views and keep in mind that, whilst we do not oppose the measure at the present time, the need is there for effective action by the Government in line with the thoughts that I have expressed for a review of this matter of the provision of adequate allowances for members of Parliament. This is an important topic. 
Mir DONALD CAMERON (Griffith) [4.54]  -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for the last 40 minutes the House has been treated to a speech by that analytical and statistically minded man, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  I listened to the honourable member. All members of this House listen with great interest at times when the honourable member for Grayndler speaks. It is unfortunate that not all of his speeches are as full of deep thought as the one that he has made today. Usually, the honourable member branches off into politics and destroys his efforts. Today, he has resisted this temptation. 
Even though the honourable member is a rapidly ageing gent, I could not help but recognise that some of the remarks that he has made are very much in keeping with modern developments. However, he has drawn a rather false analogy in suggesting that the roles of a senator and a member of the House of Representatives are as different as he said. I could not help but ask: What does a senator spend his allowance on? Granted, a senator is not connected with all the organisations and other bodies with which members of the House of Representatives are because their representation is on a more localised basis. On the other hand, a senator is confronted by continual travelling expenses and, in particular, accommodaton expenses. When the honourable member for Grayndler receives his copy of Hansard tomorrow and reads what he has said in this debate, he might have some second thoughts as to the comparison that he has drawn and take the opportunity on the motion for the adjournment one night to correct the impression that he has created and left in the minds of honourable members. 
The honourable member for Grayndler said that the whole business of allowances for members of Parliament depends upon how a member works. The keynote of the consideration of parliamentary allowances rests with each individual member. If a member is the type who, every time he receives a letter from a constituent, tears that letter up and drops it into a waste bin, he can save money on postage. But if the member of Parliament does the right thing and answers his constituent, or constituents by the hundreds, he will find that the provision of this type of service very quickly eats away his allowance. The point is that I am not complaining this afternoon about the amount of money which is paid to me by way of parliamentary allowance. In fact, 1 would rather make reference to 2 other matters. I refer to the policy of the Government with respect to lbc office that I occupy in Brisbane. 1 also wish to ask the Government to adopt an attitude which will be of assistance to members of Parliament and which will be more in keeping with the spirit of the 1970s. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you would know, as you are the honourable member for Ryan - an electorate on the other side of the Brisbane River to my electorate - and share the same Commonwealth offices in Brisbane as I do, what a lousy deal the honourable member for Griffith has had since he was elected to Parliament in 1966. I can tell you, and all honourable members of the House, that my office in Brisbane is no bigger than a bathroom in an average sized home. It is so small that, when my secretary types my letters, my desk trembles.  Her  table is right at the end of my table. Every time she types a letter, my arm shakes on my table. This is the situation that I have had to put up with since my entry into this Parliament. 
I am quite certain that, when 1 was elected in 1966. the powers that be said: Well, he is a Liberal holding the seat of Griffith, he will be out in 3 years, so we do not need to worry about taking any notice of his complaints about his office'. The point is that I have been returned to this House at the last election. I will be returned to it for many years to come. I am not prepared to continue working in the conditions under which I have been expected to work for the last 3 years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I remind the honourable member that this Bill relates to electorate allowances. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many aircraft took off from aerodromes at Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne, Launceston, Hobart, Canberra, Sydney, Brisbane and Darwin in the period Thursday, 26 March 1970 to Wednesday, 1 April 1970' inclusive, between the hours of 12 midnight and  6  a.m. 
What was the time of departure of each aircraft. 
What company or organisation owned or controlled the aircraft in each case. 
Of the aircraft that took off, how many were (a) controlled or owned by passenger carry ing airlines, (b) special flights and (c) operating because of altered schedules of regular services. 
In the case of regular services altered for any of these flights, what are the details of the changes that were made and what reasons were given in support of the changes. 
Is it necessary for approval to be given for changes in regular schedules; if so, who approved of the changes. 
Are these changes expected to be a regular feature at holiday periods. 
In the case of changes of schedule, was any reduction made by any of the airlines in either the economy or first class fare for passengers who were expected to fly between 12 midnight and 6 a.m. on the altered schedules. 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Immigration. Has his attention been drawn to statements made by the newly arrived Japanese Consul criticising visa regulations applying to Japanese tourists, and to statements by Japanese business.ment about restrictions under our immigration laws on Japanese interests establishing industries in Australia and providing workers and executives? If so, in view of the obvious misunderstanding of the position, will he state the facts to the House and give assurance that the Japanese are treated no worse and no better than other nationals under our immigration policy? Will he also agree that Japanese industrialists have been encouraged and have never lacked the initiative and also the ability to expand and to protect their trade with Australia irrespective of tariff or immigration policies? 
1 present the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on the milk industry in the Australian Capital Territory.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In the. case of a magistrate in the Australian Capital Territory who resigns from his position to stand as a candidate in a by-election for the House of Representatives, is he, if unsuccessful, entitled to be re-appointed in accordance with section 47c of the Public Service Act. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth Government contributed an amount of $16,000 towards the cost of sending the Australian team to the Commonwealth Games to be held in Edinburgh this year. 
Did the Commonwealth contribute a similar amount in 19S8 and 1966. 
If so, in view of the increased costs for travel, etc., that have taken place since 1958, will he give consideration to a substantial increase in this amount; if not, why not. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many persons have been charged with offences  in  the Australian Capital Territory for demonstrations or activities against the Vietnam War since Australia's involvement? 
In each case what was the (a) name of the person charged, (b) nature of the charge, (c) verdict given, (d) penalty imposed and1 (e.) name of the magistrate or judge who heard the case. 
 I am merely adverting to the demonstrations against the Government's wheat policies. The demonstrations in Perth and Melbourne were not solely against the Government's wool policies; they were about wheat and all other primary products. The. demonstrations indicate what the honourable member for Dawson, the honourable member for Riverina and other members of the Opposition have said, namely that wheat growers are in the position in which they find themselves because of the policies followed by this Government. lt is no use honourable members opposite denying my claims. We all agree that there is a surplus of wheat. There is no market for it. In these circumstances, what policy should be adopted? Labor's policy, as always, is designed to protect the family farmer and the small farmers - those who depend entirely on wheat for their income. The Labor Party thinks that the farmer should be treated no differently from other members of the community. He is entitled to a reasonable and just return for his efforts'. Under a Labor government those proposals would be put into effect. 
The Government claims that it is not reasonable for the current state of affairs. Let us face facts: The Government dictated to the grower organisations and the States, telling them what should be done about wheat. The Government did not bring down a plan prior to the sowing season; it did it in the middle of the wheat season. Nobody has ever done that before. The Government brought down its plan in the middle of the season when all the crops were in. No matter what honourable members opposite might say. the Government was unprepared for the crisis that occurred in the industry. It was caught unawares notwithstanding its claim that a number of its supporters represent exclusively country interests. It is no use begging the question, because the situation is without doubt as I have described it. As the Australian Financial Review' reported on 13th March, the trouble stems from the method by which the Country Party accepts its policies. The report read: 
All our rural problems, in the main, hark back to the philosophy of the Country Party that farm organisations should be the originators of policy affecting their produce. 
The Party Leader,  Mr McEwen,  has frequently told groups that they should devise the policies and leave it to his Party lo fight for them in Cabinet. 
On  Mr McEwen's  criteria a policy is .sound if the majority of farmers support it. 
Even by one vote I suppose: 
This maximizes the electoral payoff hut also the financial drain on the Treasury. 
If  Mr McEwen  needs an example of the fallacy of his Party's back-seat attitude to rural policy it exists within the wool industry itself. . . . 
The farm organisations have every right to be heard on policy but the making of it should be up 10 the Government in the interests of Australia as a whole. 
The Country Party has no thoughts of its own. lt is dictated to by these organisations. It cannot bring forward plans that are in the general interest of the Australian people, lt is sometimes dictated to by minority groups and organisations and suddenly it has to change its policy in the middle of a season in an effort to get an industry out of the plight in which it finds itself, lt is unfortunately true that the tragic plight not only of the wheat industry hut also the wool industry and other primary industries stems from the false policies of this Government. It is significant that only one section of the Government is interested in rural production, particularly wheat. At the moment there is id the chamber only one member of the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party recently produced a different policy on wheat and wool to that produced by the Country Party. Which Party's policy is the Minister now putting? ls it the Country Parry's policy, the Liberal Party's policy or an admixture of the two? 
Looking at the Government benches and noting only one minister reading a few papers and relaxing, one is led to the conclusion that a big section of the Liberal Party has no interest in the plight of the wheat grower. The farmers have had foisted on them policies that have proved detrimental. They offer no long term solution to the problems of the wheat industry. 
I would like to see the Country Party members opposite rise in their places later and indicate, if they will, their approach to the farmers that have been bankrupted by that Party's present policies. What relief does the Government intend to give them? Does it intend that they should close down their farms and walk off as was done under previous Liberal-Country Party Governments in days gone by? I would like to hear the Minister say in practical terms what will come out of the policy he has enunciated in respect of the wheat growing industry. It is said that the Minister talks very frankly on these matters. He certainly does. But sympathy is not much good when you are going broke. What you want to know is what those responsible intend to do and that has not been shown by this Government yet. 
I have listened right through this debate and I have not heard any Country Party member - and certainly no Liberal Party members because they are not in the House  - say what will ultimately be the salvation of the industry. AH they have endeavoured to do is defend their ill fated policies and praise the Minister whom one of their own members said was responsible for the parlous state of the industry today. I see the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  picking up his pen. Although he lost the debate on the banks of the Murray the other day let him say today, if he can, in this Parliament what he thinks of the wheat industry. What would the honourable member for Mallee think of the wheat industry if the state of the industry had been caused by a Labor government? The old roaring lion would have revived on this side of the Parliament if that had happened. But he will sit there as silent as the grave no doubt and all he will do is praise the Minister whose responsibility it is for sending the farmers broke across the length and breadth of Australia today. The honourable member for Mallee cannot escape the responsibility 
Order! I ask the honourable member for Grayndler to confine his remarks to the Bill. The Bill deals mainly with the sale of wheat in Australia. 
 I accept your rebuke,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It is a remarkable coincidence that every time there is a rural debate the Country Party arranges to have somebody in the Chair. I will get back to the Bill. 
My question, is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Wakefield. I ask "the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that Primary producers demonstrating recently in Perth in support of the embargo on the export of rams displayed a huge banner bearing the slogan 'Export Anthony; keep the rams'? If so, does he intend to adopt this rather quaint, but practical solution to what is a worrying problem for him? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the P.G. Huxley, Esquire, listed as a member of the Executive Committee of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia, identical with the person of that name recently convicted and sentenced to 20 years imprisonment for crimes described by the judge as cunningly conceived and elaborately executed with the skill of a master criminal. 
Is the Executive Committee elected by democratic procedures. 
If not can he say whether  Mr Huxley  was appointed by direction and on the personal recommendation of the Director of the Fund,  Mr R.  J. 
Turner, in return for the nomination by Huxley of  Mr Turner  to the Art Gallery Society of New South Wales. 
if so, will he indicate what action he intends to take to prevent 'horse trading' of this nature in the appointment of directors to this and other benefit funds. 
As the Rural Bank of New South Wales is shown as one of the bankers of this Fund, is he in a position to state whether the funds of this organisation were manipulated by this master criminal during his association with the Fund and as an officer ofthe Rural Bank. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In what way does a general medical practitioner qualify to become a specialist. 
Is it possible for a medical practitioner to practise as a general practitioner and as a specialist at the same time. 
 I want to add a few words of protest to those that have already been launched from this side of the House. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  who is the Leader of the House, whilst generally a very intelligent  speaker,  today uttered some of the most pathetic comments and views in support of the suspension of the 1 1 o'clock rule that we have heard in this Parliament. He said, for instance, that the Transport Officer wants to know when the session will end. f suppose the cook wants to know too. I suppose the doorkeeper and everybody around the place wants to know. But the Government, which is charged with the responsibility of running the affairs of this country, is bringing the staff into this argu ment and charging them in effect with being the reason why we have to rush into recess and sit in to the early hours of &gt;he morning. Those reasons given by the Minister are specious in the extreme. The n.-al reason why the Government is rushing into recess at this stage is because it sat around for months, from October until the middle of March, and .refused to face the Parliament. Now, knowing full well that its political stocks are low, it seeks to debate in the middle of the night legislation which it knows will have a reaction with the general public. 
Let us have a look at this legislation. The Minister a few weeks ago introduced a proposal which he said would give us a chance to debate matters in an orderly atmosphere, reasonably and well, and that the House would adjourn each night at 1 1 o'clock. Almost in a moment today, yesterday and the day before he destroyed his good intention by suspending the 1 1 o'clock rule, which he said was brought in so that wc could have reasonable debate. The real fact of the matter is now we will be expected to debate in the early hours of the morning ali these important matters in which the nation is so interested. Who is about in Canberra in the early hours of the morning? 1 suppose there are perverts, prostitutes and politicians. They are the only ones who will know that Parliament is meeting at this time. A few undesirables around the street will look at the lonely, weary looking Liberal Ministers going home and say: There they are. To escape their proper condemnation in the eyes of the public they sneak around the streets like us in the early hours of the morning, so ashamed of their policies that they will not debate them in the ordinary hours'. 
Let us have a look at the effect of this on honourable members. Anybody who looks at the Ministers in daylight when they are debating matters in this Parliament can see that they are aging, worn out, worried, discontented and dissatisfied. Apart from that it displays remarkable incompetence even at question time and at this hour of the day. Imagine asking Government members to act intelligently in the early hours of the morning, as we are now expected to do. Imagine what Liberal members opposite, who ad J little to the debate at this hour of the day, will be doing in the early hours of the morning. I venture to suggest that the vast majority of Government backbenchers will be asleep and most of the Liberal Ministers will look that way in the early hours of the morning. 
In addition to that,  Mr Speaker,  have you ever thought of the effect of sitting into the early hours on a man in your position in the Chair? You sit there, day in and day out, listening to the tedious replies given by Government members and Ministers at this hour of the day. Now you will be expected, after long' and tedious, hours in your responsible task which is mainly occupied by keeping Government members in order, to sit there until 2, 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning and make your life a real misery. Irrespective of the remuneration that you receive, I think it is unfair to you as the responsible officer of this Parliament to be expected to sit into the early hours of the morning and then front up here the next morning and be intelligent enough to carry out your responsibilities. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
In view of his reply to my question No. 858 (Hansard, 5 May 1970, pages 1639-40) does he confirm that a professed member of the Communist Party, subject to appropriate qualifications and experience, would not be prejudiced when considering appointments as judges and magistrates. 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  to recommit this motion. There is no indication on the blue sheet giving the daily programme that Order of the Day No. 1 was not to proceed. Although that document is not taken to give the exact programme for the day there was no indication, as far as I am aware, to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  who represents the Opposition in these matters, that the Grievance debate would not be proceeded with. I suggest that the Minister should recommit this proposal because to abolish Grievance Day is something that the Opposition will object to, and the Opposition would have objected if it had known that this was the intention of the Minister. The Opposition opposes this motion and I ask the Minister to recommit it. 
I wish to say a few words to support the amendment that has been discussed, and to oppose the amendment that has been moved by the Minister. What people do not realise or what the Government refuses to realise is that the real mystery men on the Australian business scene are the directors of the health and medical' benefit organisations. There is no method of election, and no-one knows their background. We do not know whether they are appointed on their ability or by virtue of their contacts or whether or not they are appointed as a result of services rendered to the person in control of the fund. In this Parliament I have mentioned the case of  Mr Huxley,  who is now serving 20 years hard labour as a result of a $5.5m fraud to which he pleaded guilty. He was appointed to the Hospital Contributions Fund in NSW because he nominated the director of that fund -  Mr Turner  - as a member of the Art Gallery Society of NSW. Why should we not know if this is the method of electing directors, where these funds have been invested, and also the association these people have with the organisations? 
I am not concerned about that. 
 Mr Turner  knows I made this allegation. 
I made this allegation, and  Mr Turner  has never written to me denying it, has never asked me to withdraw it, and has never objected to it. I think his silence exemplifies his guilt and the reason why that man was appointed. That brings me to the point where I ask why we should not have known, for instance, Huxley's association with the organisation. Why should we not know what every director is associated with? The very fact that this matter has been sent back to this place twice by another place proves, as the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said a moment ago, that it should be carried in this place. 
On the voices. When all is said and done, there are a lot of fair weather fighters on the Government side - the rebels. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Grayndler that he confine his remarks to the clause before the Committee. 
I am doing so. 1 have mentioned that this has been sent back twice from another place, and those who voted twice for it to come back to this House are fair weather rebels from your Party,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  who apparently send things back only when they realise that something should be done in the public interest and they try to escape their responsibilities. Why is the Minister always covering up for these directors? The amendment he has moved excludes completely what we want to insert, namely, details of direct or indirect interests in shareholdings held by directors of the fund in organisations in which the fund's reserves have been invested be made known. What if H. G. Palmer of other days had been a director? Why should we not have known whether a man like that intended to invest these funds in his organisation that went haywire and lost millions? I cast no reflection on those directors of funds who have integrity, but nobody knows who is a Huxley and who is not because nobody knows them, nobody knows how they are elected, yet we are supposed to give them an open book so far as the investment of huge amounts of funds is concerned. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  as you know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  would not let his Ministers hold shares in Comalco, and quite rightly. That displays integrity of a high order. Why should we not expect the same from directors of organisations I ke this? As the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has said, they are faceless men. They are friends of people many of whom are very wealthy and powerful people with great connections in business. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)   - Order! I think the honourable member is getting rather wide of the point. 
If I might answer your point,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I would ask you to read the amendment to clause 27 which I am discussing. It reads in pari as follows: 
Clause 27, page 19, line 23, proposed section 76a, sub-section (2.), omit paragraph (b), insert the following paragraphs - 
Listen closely to this,  Mr Deputy Chairman  - 
details of how the reserve fund has been invested; 
details of direct or indirect interests in share holdings held by directors of the fund in organisations in which the fund's reserves have been invested. 
The point I make with due deference to you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  is that we believe that the business connections of directors of these funds in the business world should be known. 1 have mentioned cases. It was Huxley in one but it could have been H. G. Palmer. It might be Comalco or any other organisation. Why should we not know their affiliations in order to determine where these moneys are being invested? This is a logical argument. It is relevant to the clause and terribly important to the Australian people. I cannot imagine why the Minister has always covered up for the funds. A committee in another place has revealed that they have been fleecing the public and $35m has to be given back to the contributors. The people responsible for this are the directors and we want to know the ramifications of their business interests. It is terribly important. After all, for ail we know Huxley could have been operating their account with the Rural Bank. But probably nobody knew that he was a director of that organisation at that time. Nothing in this legislation is more important than to know the background of the directors, where they invest their moneys, whether they are associated with the funds, whether there are interlocking directorates and whether everything is above board. I know that the Minister is a man of integrity and I believe that the last thing he would want to do would be to take out this amendment which has been sent back twice from another place. That in itself is clear proof of the substance of the clause. 
It has rarely happened. The other place has gone under in nearly everything else that mattered but it has insisted on this amendment because 7 members of the Liberal Party in that House believe that there should be some control over the activities of these people and that the public is entitled to know their ramifications. If the Minister at the table was adjudicating on contracts and other matters relating to his Department he would not for a minute be tied up in companies with which he was negotiating. It would not be within his principles to do it nor would it be within the principles of any member of the Ministry for that matter. But here we are allowing a director of this fund to be a director of a fund and to invest its money in organisations with which he is associated. At the same time we are giving him a protection, a safeguard and a right that is denied every other reputable member of the community associated with the handling of public funds. For some reason or other the Government is covering up. I suppose - I just make passing reference to this - that maybe some funds went into the Government's coffers for its election campaign. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I ask the honourable member to confine his remarks to the clause before the Committee. 
I was only making passing reference,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I can appreciate your sensitivity on that point. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)   - Order! Is the honourable member making a reflection on the Chair? 
Certainly not. Not for a minute would 1 do that with you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  1 believe that the Government has a responsibility to endorse this amendment. The very fact that this particular section has been taken out in its entirety proves that pressure has been exerted from some source or other to protect the faceless men of the business or medical world, namely, the directors of these organisations. We are not asking for much. If the directors were elected by a vote of the people concerned and if we knew who they were, we would probably know their qualifications for the job and the ramifications of their investments before they stood for election. But we are asked to accept a blank cheque. The Hospitals Contribution Fund comes along with twenty or thirty directors picked out of a hat for services rendered. Nobody knows who they are or what they are. They might be brainy; they might be silly; they might be bright; they might be anything. We are not told anything about them and, although millions of dollars are being invested, the Government refuses to write into legislation this amendment as a safeguard for the public and for contributors' funds. I can see no justifiable reason for this amendment not being adopted and, like honourable members on this side of the chamber, I will be interested to hear the Minister make an explanation in regard to it. 
For once - far be it for me to do it too often - I commend those limited rebels of the Liberal Party in another place who sent this amendment back twice because for once they have cast an intelligent vote in the interests of the people to see that the people are protected. Therefore I ask that the House adopt the amendment that has been moved and reject the amendment moved by the Minister because I think that integrity, public interest and contributors' interests demand that this amendment be inserted in order to protect their finances, their funds and the reputation of all associated with them. 
It is quite refreshing to see the old warrior, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  back on his tariff hobby horse again. 1 could not help but think as he spoke that he has given credit to a long list of people, starting with the Vernon Committee for its 2 great achievements. He says, firstly, that everyone has now come around to agree with him and secondly that they all want to reduce, costs and believe that they can do this by adopting a bench mark tariff. The point I make is that wc do not all know about it, and the Tariff Board does not, either. The Board, like the honourable member for Wakefield, is assuming that it knows without having a proper and full investigation. It is possible for anyone to assert that a tariff must be lower; that is a simple process. That is all the Tariff Board has done in this case of man-made fibres. All that the Tariff Board has said is what the honourable member for Wakefield has said - 'We will reduce these tariffs and see what happens! As the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  quite affectively mentioned, the Board does not know the facts, and I submit that a more extensive inquiry should be made with a properly equipped staff, which Labor will give the Board when it comes to office. 
I join those on this side of the Parliament in opposing that section mentioned by the member for Lalor in regard to the manmade fibres and yarn, tyre cord and tyre cord fabric. As the member for Lalor said, we shall vote against 13 items and against the third reading of the Bill. I see from the Tariff Board report - it is interesting that the member for Lalor mentioned this, too - that the Tariff Board somewhat complimented the industry in these terms: 
The producing industries stressed their importance to the economy in terms of employment, funds employed and value of production with particular emphasis on the high value of production per employee in man-made fibre extrusion compared with Australian manufacturing industry generally. 
The member for Lalor stressed the great productive capacity of that section. I quote further from this report: 
In terms of persons employed (over 5,000) and funds used (over $70 million) the industries under review are large users of productive resources. 
The value of their production is certainly large although that, in itself, is not a measure of an industry's contribution to economic growth. 
Evidently there was no doubt in the Board's mind that it was contributing to the welfare of the nation by development and things of that nature. The Board, of course, does make some startling statements in respect of a submission. Further down, it says: 
In the Board's view economic size in itself is not a measure of economic worth. 
To me that seems rather a strange argument. It continues: 
Similarly a high value of production per employee, particularly in a capital intensive industry, is not necessarily indicative - from the national point of view - of the efficiency with which labour and other resources are being used. 1 find it difficult to subscribe to that point of view, because I would believe that, per man production plus those other factors, the industry certainly must have been on a very efficient basis. 
I now go over to a section of this report on page 24 and refer to the paragraph limiting recommendations on raw nylon yarns until 30th June 1971. On page 24 this is done in connection with this section of the report, which says: 
Because of the short period of this assistance, the floor price will not insulate the industry against the long term downward trend in world prices. The Board will recommend that the following f.o.b. floor price apply to raw c.f. nylon yarns until 30th June 1971 and that it be removed then without review. 
Then are quoted the rates applying. I want to place my views before the House in respect of what I consider to be a new and dangerous proposal - that is, in limiting the time when this benefit will apply. I have already placed a question on the notice paper to the Minister for Trade in respect of this matter. The report by the Board suggests that by the expiration of a period of 18 months a most critical part of its proposed protection should cease to be operative. In accepting the Board's report, does the Government also accept this suggestion or, if not, is this action to be permitted without a public hearing by the Board to determine whether the circumstances at such time warrant it being taken? 
The issue is one not only of importance to a very wide range of industry but serves to demonstrate a marked departure by the 
Board from the hitherto carefully guarded policy of not attempting to commit either its-elf or the Government to forward decisions which could well be influenced strongly by an unproductive economic climate such as that at present existing. The normal practice of the Board is to call in its report for a review of its decision at a date in the future if such a course is thought to be desirable. This review would be conducted in the form of a public hearing and a decision would be taken having regard to the circumstances at the lime. But this course has not been followed on this occasion. If the report is adopted in its present form the future of an extremely efficient Australian industry and its thousands of employees will depend entirely on whether an anticipated industrial and competitive climate will materialise 18 months hence. 
I appreciate the need for a review of decisions from time to time, but only by way of a complete and public investigation. I. would be extremely disturbed if the Government were to agree to a procedure which may be described at the very best as a not highly responsible piece of crystal ball gazing by a group of people who have limited knowledge of the real manner in which industry and labour must conduct themselves if success is to be achieved and who seem to place more weight on the opinions expressed by our foreign competitors than on the opinions expressed by our own industrial leaders. 
I wish to utter a word of warning in connection with this section of the report. The honourable member for Lalor who led for the Opposition on this Bill, quoted an advertisement which was inserted in practically all newspapers throughout Australia by the Textile Council of Australia in relation to the findings of the Tariff Board in regard to this industry. It is interesting to note that the textile and apparel industries, which employ 150,000 people, have asked that the satisfactory level of activity which is now present throughout their industries be maintained. These industries employ a lot of people. In other words, a lot of families are dependent on these industries. I do not intend to refer to the various sections of the Board's report because this was done very effectively by the honourable member for Lalor. But I do stress that it has been pointed out that other countries are much more strongly and highly protected in regard to these items than Australia is. lt is quite clear, however, that if these amendments are implemented they will have an extremely detrimental effect on the textile industry. As well as affecting its employing capacity these amendments will place the industry at a great disadvantage in respect to overseas competitors. I think the Government should take note of this advertisement in the newspapers. The members of the Textile Council of Australia are listed as being the Cotton and Manmade Fibres Federation, the Cotton and Allied Textile Manufacturers Association of Australia, the Wool Textile Manufacturers of Australia, the Australian Knitting Industries Council, the Australian Wool Board, the Carpet Manufacturers Federation of Australia, Courtaulds (Australia) Ltd and Fibremakers Ltd. In other words, the Council consists of a wide ranging group of organisations which are interested in the textile industries throughout Australia. The submissions which have been made by the Council in its newspaper advertisement are in some detail and appear to me to be not only very factual but also well based and deserving of consideration. The Opposition will vote against the Thirteenth Schedule to the Bill as well as the third reading of the Bill because it believes that the section of the Tariff Board's report which deals with the textile industry is detrimental to the industry. 
I wish to make a few broad comments in respect to tariff policy generally. Proposals for a change in tariff policy were advocated recently by the Tariff Board and certain other sections of the community. It has been suggested that certain ceilings should be placed on protection and also that industry should be sectionalised in regard to the varying degrees of protection to which industry should be entitled. The Australian Labor Party, with its traditional background of having established and protected Australian industry has a very practical interest in a continuance of the policy and the development of Australian industries on an economic and efficient level, lt appears that the Australian manufacturing industries employ about 30% of the work force. Estimates indicate that the employment of 50% of the work force was due to manufacturing industries and that almost  H  million people are employed in those industries. It is my understanding that approximately 320,000 people are employed in the building and construction industry. 
The Australian Labor Party believes in a high standard of living, full employment, an expanding economy and a continuation of the immigration programme, lt is the Labor Party's belief also that workers are entitled to good conditions, long service leave, annual holidays and adequate wages. My Party believes that we should have strong manufacturing industries, protected against competition from cheap labour countries, and that our own people and capital should be employed in these industries. Provided these conditions are met it is my belief that Australian industries are entitled to a full measure of tariff protection. There is a tendency to blame protection exclusively in some cases for high prices. This may be true to an extent, but there are many contributing factors, such as excess profit in many cases, by those who control the distribution of the goods, and, in the case of primary producers, the carriage costs imposed by shipping companies. 
My concern is to see that Australian workers are fully employed. I see little satisfaction in being able to buy cheap Japanese, British or American cars or products if our own workers are idle because of lack of tariff protection for our secondary industries. I have seen the day when there were plenty of cheap goods available but nobody was in employment and wages were not available to buy them. Our first obligation is to our own people, and tariff protection affords us the opportunity to protect their welfare. It is true that some review or changes are necessary, as was instanced a few moments ago by the honourable member for Lalor in respect of the functions of the Tariff Board. But any changes contemplated or suggested by the Board or by any other interests should not be allowed to destroy the basic principle underlying tariff policy in this country, and that is the establishment and the development of Australian industries manufacturing our raw materials and providing work and employment and security for Australian workers. I believe tariff pro tection provides a practical solution to our economic problem of employment, at the same time maintaining a high standard of living. The Labor Party's policy on this matter is as follows: 
Effective tariff protection of Australian industries and import embargoes in favour of Australian industries capable of supplying the home market - in each case subject to control of prices, to protection of Australian working conditions and to due efficiency in production. 
That is undoubtedly a continuation of the sound policy of the Labor Party. At this stage I think I should say that the Labor Party has a long history and a proud record in providing the basis for the establishment md development of Australian industry from the t me of the Scullin Government The reason is that we believe in using out resources for manufacturing purposes instead of sending them abroad for manufacture. It is interesting to note that the basis underlying tariff policy was expressed in these words: 
Protection and assistance for Australian industries, both primary and secondary, has been long established policy. It is one of the methods used by the Government to help to ensure the achievement of its national objectives, namely, economic growth and national security, increasing work force including migration, full employment, rising standards of living. 
That has been the basis upon which tariff protection has been built. I say regretfully at this stage that I am becoming a little disappointed in the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  1 must confess that I have admired the statements he has made from time to time in connection with protection and tariff policy. I look with some pleasure at changes in Country Party policy towards tariffs, which have been brought about by the Minister for Trade and Industry as time has gone on. Some of this contributions on this question to the Parliament and to other organisations have indeed been masterful. From the adoption of this report on man-made fibres I cannot help but think that not only the Minister for Trade and Industry but also the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  have capitulated to the Tariff Board's experimental changes in tariff policy, and that is indeed to be regretted. I am not unmindful that the  Deputy  Prime Minister in a splendid speech to this Parliament on 28th November 1968 laid down the fundamentals of a tariff policy. Complimentary copies of that speech ought to be given to the honourable member for Wakefield, because 1 think it was a statement that would have brought a great deal of pleasure to Austraiian . industrialists. 
The Deputy Prime Minister followed that up not very much later with another speech to delegates of the Chambers of Manufactures at a luncheon at the Hotel Canberra on 28th April 1969. The speeches were basically the same, but each of them incorporated all the sound principles, I would say, of a good tariff policy. But where does the Minister for Trade and Industry now stand on the issue before us? Does he believe in this sectionalising of industries, the limit of 50% on tariffs, the taking away of protection and the new academic and intellectual look being given to the Tariff Board, not on comprehensive but on limited inquiries in respect of changes of policy? The Deputy Prime Minister said in his speech to the Parliament on 28th November 1.968:  lt is important that it be recognised that Australia is, so far as I can discover, the only industrialised country which relies on the tariff almost exclusively to provide protection for its industries. 
He mentioned that other countries have devious and many devices. He referred to the European Economic Community countries, Japan, even Great Britain, and the United States. But Australia, he said, relied exclusively on tariff protection and not quantitative protection for our goods. He went on to refer to the growth of industry and he dealt with the question of costs, in a way which the honourable member for Wakefield might well study. He said: 
If seeking lower costs completely dominates our thinking, lower wages would be the most obvious area to turn to, with unemployment and a slower rate of development. There has been much talk lately about the effect of tariffs on costs. We ought to get this into perspective. There are many things that affect costs other than tariffs. The pressures of our development are reflected throughout our economy. Wages are forced up and this results in a great increase in over-award payments. 
The Minister went on to refer to transport costs, both internally and for our overseas trade, interest rates, hire purchase, costs of land and buildings and other tertiary costs. He said that these are all important elements of the cost of production in primary and secondary industry. So that to blame tariffs exclusively as the basis for cost problems, as the honourable member for Wakefield does, is completely wrong. The 
Minister for Trade and Industry went on to say something which 1 hope he will repeat in this Parliament. He said: 
The Tarin" Board's recent decision to break new  ground by  classifying industries according to existing levels of protection, with all the implications that are contained in this, might be regarded as a departure from the traditional method of judging each industry's need for protection and whether the industry is economic and efficient. Indeed, let us remember that it can be regarded as the determination of a far reaching, total, economic policy embracing all industries both primary and secondary. 
The right honourable gentleman was expressing his fear of breaking new ground. I would like to know whether this is still the policy of the Government. The Minister for Trade and Industry rarely, if ever, speaks in the Parliament on the matter of tariffs. It is handled, no doubt efficiently, by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who is at the table, but it is a rather weird situation when the Minister for Trade and Industry rarely appears in the Parliament to justify the Government's policy on these matters or at least to give an explanation. The speech on tariffs from which I have quoted is one of the few on that subject that he has made. He put it right on the line when he said: 
The Government's established tariff policy can be simply stated. We will give adequate protection, where necessary, to Australian industries which are economic and efficient. We have an independent body, the Tariff Board, to advise the Government on the circumstances of individual industries. We expect the Tariff Board to tender its advice having full regard to the Government's established policies. 
I am in complete agreement with that view. At no stage can the Tariff Board properly take from the Government the right to implement its policy. The situation would be completely wrong if a body such as the Tariff Board could tell, for instance, a Labor government pledged to a policy of protection that there was not to be protection for Australian industries. The Tariff Board must certainly have a great degree of independence, but it must also be subject to review by the Parliament of the day. It would be indeed strange if a body outside Parliament forced the Government to implement policies opposed to those it had offered to the electors. The Minister went on: 
Indeed, if this advice does not take into account the Government's established policies, it is unlikely to be advice which we can expect to follow. 
I have mentioned these matters because the winds of change are blowing through the Tariff Board, to my mind with a detrimental effect for Australian manufacturers. In the policy speech of the Prime Minister during the campaign for the last election he laid great stress on the point that this Government would protect Australian industries. He said it quite clearly and laid it on the line. On 9th October 1968 he spoke in this Parliament about winds of change blowing over the Tariff Board. He said:  il will, of course, continue to be the Board's role to advise, and it will continue to be the Government's role, in determining levels of protection, to decide whether or not it will follow the advice given. These have been our policies and they have served us well. We have no intention of changing them. 
It is time more extensive inquiries were made into industry. Today those people who wonder where Australian industry is going in respect of these matters should be reassured by the Government. As I said, I am somewhat concerned that such a good advocate for adequate protection for Australian industries in more recent times as the Minister for Trade and Industry, is silent on the man made fibres report, which implies a policy which I believe is detrimental to those industries and contrary to what the  Deputy  Prime Minister has said were his views in days gone by. The honourable member for Lalor mentioned the need for the Tariff Board to be fully equipped and to investigate completely all the facts associated with primary and secondary industry and inquiries. I believe the 4 points he laid down - the need to improve the Board's composition by research and matters of that nature - are important ones which Labor will give effect to. The Board must extend its inquiry, as he said, through wholesaling, retailing and all aspects of industry. 
The question of what is essential and economic is more or less guess work at this stage because of the Board's limited inquiries into these matters. Labour will make the necessary changes in the Board for primary and secondary industry to be investigated on this basis. I rose tonight to express my opposition to the proposals which are contained in the man made fibres report and to endorse the comments made by the honourable member for Lalor in respect to the Opposition's policy on this question. I hope that no government, what ever its political colour, will sacrifice Australian industries and Australian workmen for foreign interests so far as manufacturing is concerned. The Minister for Trade and Industry said in this Parliament on one occasion: 'You can have cheap cars but you will have no motor industry; you can have cheap clothes but you will have no secondary textile industries; you can have cheap everything if you want it, but if you want to be able to afford it you have io make sure that Australians are working and the only way to do it is to see that industries are efficient, economic and adequately protected in coping with the demands we make on them to maintain the workforce in reasonable conditions and, at the same time, to add to the development of the defence potential of the nation'. I express those views tonight. I hope that on the next occasion there is debate in this Parliament on this subject the Minister for Trade and Industry will make a fleeting appearance and reassure the House that he has not changed his views which I commended him for in days gone by. I sincerely trust he still holds those views. I hope the Government also holds those views. 
by leave - As the one member on this side of the Parliament who probably has known  Mr Meredith  the longest, I w sh to endorse on behalf of the Opposition the sentiments that you have expressed.  Mr Speaker,  in regard to his services. Those in the Parliament who have known him have known him, as you have said, not only as an efficient and very courteous man but also as a very helpful man.  His  retirement is an occasion for regret but, at the same time, we wish him well in his years of retirement after the splendid service that he has rendered to this Parliament, to those in it and to those who have been associated with him in the important task that he had to perform. On behalf of the Opposition - T am sure that I speak on behalf of not only ail honourable members on this side of the House but also all honourable members on the Government side of the House - 1 endorse your sentiments and I wish  Mr Meredith  well. 
by leave  -  I have not read the interim report of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise but I do hope that it recommends something very constructive in regard to this important problem. As the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has said. 170 movements of jets have been scheduled out of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport between 1 1 p.m. and 6 a.m. in recent months and the whole 170 went over the Grayndler electorate. 1 hope that the Committee has brought down some good recommendations because, from what 1 can see. in recent months the traffic out of Mascot has intensified day and night, but particularly at night, lt seems that runway 16 carries all of the aircraft which then fly from one end of the Grayndler electorate to the other. Whilst the Committee may be doing excellent work for various electorates, the only practical result that 1 have seen to date is that every plane flies over the Grayndler electorate. I do nol know why. I criticise the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  because he personally okays the 1 1 p.m. to 6 a.m. flights. Some 170 have been approved by the Minister. The planes are flying over the most densely populated areas of Sydney - Sydenham, Marrickville, Leichhardt and s3 on. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)There is no substance in the point of order. 
 I refer lo the answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Newcastle, in which 170 flights were listed. Why does the Minister agree to these planes flying out at that time during holiday periods? Ansett Airlines of Australia, for instance, sent a plane out of Darwin at 2 a.m. on one occasion, it being claimed that it was done to meet the convenience of people who wanted to fly. The real reason was that the airline made more money by flying that plane around the south instead of flying the scheduled flight. The Minister has no right to OK these flights at that time of night and I place on record my resentment in regard to it. I hope that the report condemns the Minister for allowing these flights after curfew hours to th: detriment of the people concerned. I think that the electorate of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  is somewhere on the same beam as is my electorate.  His  constituents are probably concerned about this, too. 
The honourable member says that there were 170 at the same time. In regard to the siting of aerodromes. L suggest that the major aerodrome should be at Alice Springs. That might sound silly, but these days why should not international passengers land in a place like that and from there bc taken to the various parts of the Commonwealth? It is a major complaint that the Government has failed to allow the siting of aerodromes to be considered by this Committee. I asked for only 5 minutes, so until I read the report 1 merely register a complaint on behalf of the 125,000 people in my district, nearly every one of whom has been driven mad by these out-of-curfew hours flights which use runway 16. I hope that some recommendations have been made about this problem. 1 was amazed at what happened the other clay when flying to Sydney from Canberra. When we were out near Tom Ugly's Bridge and the plane should have gone straight over the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  who was sitting beside me on the plane, it veered away to the north somewhere and flew over the length and bread! h of the Grayndler electorate. As sure as though it was missile directed, it came in at Leichhardt and finished at Mascot. I even waved to my wife as wc went over the centre of my electorate because the plane was so low and so close. This happens repeatedly with flights from Canberra. 1 suppose I have to lake my share of the planes that fly over the Grayndler electorate but now and again in the St George and Barton electorates they could take the odd plane, could they not? I think that pilots have been instructed to fly this course over my district to and from runway 16. 
Whilst commending the Committee on what I understand to be an excellent report. I hope that it is practical. Even if it is not within the terms of reference, I think there should be an addendum that the aerodrome should be built at Alice Springs or somewhere else and. above all else, that the pilots occupy- 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the total cost to the Commonwealth of the recent Royal Tour of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that an aircraft was made available to transport the Honourable Member for Ballaarat to Canberra on 15 May 1970. 
If so, what was the - 
type of aircraft used; 
name of the owner; 
cost of the flight. 
name of each passenger; 
number in the crew; 
purpose of the flight, and 
name of the person who authorised the flight. 
asked the Prime Minister upon  notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to my questions Nos 539 and 879 which were placed on the Notice Paper on 19 March and 23 April respectively. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
How many ViP aircraft were used 10tranport Ministers and Members from Canberra after the conclusion of the censure debate on 15th May 1970. 
What was the (a) name of the Minister carried, (a) name of each passenger, (c) destination, (d) passenger capacity, (e) cost of the trip and (f) purpose of the trip in respect of each aircraft. 
Were any Members of the Opposition invited to travel on the aircraft; if not, why not. 
I wish to support the motion moved by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  and 1 do so in rather unusual and unfortunate circumstances. Two of the delegates to this Conference have now passed on, the Honourable G. C. McKellar and the Honourable  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes. I express my sympathy to the relatives of those distinguished gentlemen. The other 2 delegates,  Mr Harrison  and  Mr Peters,  retired from the Parliament at the election that took place just after the Conference concluded. So today on behalf of the Parliamentary Labor Party I associate myself with the comments in regard to the activities of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and particularly the Conference at Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. I was not at the Conference. Although I have been in the Parliament a long time 1 have attended only 1 Parliamentary Association conference, in the Bahamas in 1968. I endorse the sentiments that have been expressed by the honourable member for Casey on the valuable contribution that conferences make towards better understanding amongst the parliaments of the world and. ultimately, the people. We are fortunate that as on this occasion delegates from this Parliament represented it with dignity, impartiality and non-politically. That has been my experience of conferences that I have attended and I do not doubt that the gentlemen who attended this meeting also acted in that way. The festivities arranged for us and the hospitality extended to us by the host country were of the highest standard. 
The conference was a very notable one. At the Bahamas conference I enjoyed particularly the stimulating agenda for discussion. No holds were barred. As the honourable member for Casey has mentioned, all subjects were contentious and some were very provocative. To use a term in a friendly way, one could say that it was on for young and old in some of the debates that took place. That is all to the good because I believe that tame cat conferences, while they may look well and make everyone feel congenial, are not what we want. If occasionally someone throws in a dead cat it helps the conference and improves the spirit, and provided delegates part as friends not much harm has been done. Only by open honest discussion at these conferences can we understand the problems of member countries be they racial, be they economic or be they political. 
That ls why I think that in recent times the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association has adopted its present policy. I believe that it is a very  sound  policy. There is a wealth of things to discuss in the field of parliamentary democracy - new concepts in race relations, Commonwealth and world security and so on. It is fascinating to attend conferences of this kind with people from many and varied countries, some of them wealthy and some of them poor, and to hear their points of view. By that means we get a better appreciation of them. 
We should place on record with a certain amount of pride our appreciation of the services rendered by the honourable member for Casey in his executive capacity in the Association. He retires from his position at the end of this year. He has followed distinguished Australians. I think that a former Prime Minister held a similar post on one occasion. My experience of the honourable member for Casey at the conference I attended was that not only was he a very good  chairman  and most impartial - he gave me the call on one or two occasions - but also that he was very well accepted by the delegates and that he upheld the high position he occupied, I think with great credit to himself and to this Parliament. I hope that the person who succeeds him will be able to live up to the high standard that he has set. 
I do not wish to speak at greater length except to say that with other honourable members I will welcome the opportunity later in the year to attend the conference to be held here, Australia being the host country. It will be a good thing for the Parliament and for Australia. It will give a lot of people from overseas who probably do not understand us too well the opportunity to see at first hand what kind of country we have and what kind of people we are. Judged by the previous conference that was held here, I feel that the forthcoming conference will be second to none so far as hospitality and administration are concerned. It is pleasing too that the honourable member for Casey will still be occupying his official position for that conference. I hope that if a ballot is held it will not be until the final day so that he will occupy his high position as a member of the executive committee of the general council for the whole of the conference. 
I understand that other matters are to be presented before the sitting is suspended so I shall not say more at this stage. It is to the credit of all governments in Australia that they have given great support to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, the Inter-Parliamentary Union and international parliamentary conferences. I hope that the practice will continue, whatever government is in office, because it not only gives people the opportunity to meet and understand others but it also leads to a much better understanding of world issues and the great problems that we have to decide in the Parliament. I support the motion for the printing of this report and congratulate all associated with the conference - our delegates on their representation and the honourable member for Casey for the part that he played. I hope that the conference to be held here will be as successful as those that we have attended abroad. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lucock)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
I want to add a few brief words to what has already been said. Firstly, I think that the real trouble with hold-ups in business started in this Parliament when the break of 1 week was introduced in the first place. I am one who favours sitting 4 days a week from the commencement of the session until it finishes. That does not suit the Government because it cannot work out its business on more than an hourly or a daily basis. In other words, it does not know what is going to happen in the Parliament from day to day. I think that the Government should set certain days on which the Parliament will commence and finish each year. As the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  said, it should be able to announce the business for the session and, once having set it, Parliament should sit for 4 days a week, or 5, right through until the session is finished. What happens now is that we sit for a week, a fortnight or 3 weeks and then lose all track of the business. This is particularly so if Easter intervenes. A session may extend over months whereas if we had sat on a 4-day week or S-day week basis we could have finished it within a reasonable time. 
Members of this Parliament - be they new members or older members - are very fortunate to be here at this stage of their political careers. When I first came to this Parliament and when air travel was introduced a member had the privilege of travelling once each week to Parliament and back. There was no going to Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide or Perth every weekend as one wanted. I remember one Western Australian member whose son changed from short pants to long pants and who did not see it happen because he was here for so long. When I first came to Parliament we sat from February to November! without any breaks. I might say that I held a borderline seat at that stage. By never going down to any functions I actually increased my majority. Let that be a lesson to a lot of honourable members who want to rush back to their electorates. The less they see of you, the bigger the majority you may get. I know because it happened to me. I mention these things because I think they are important. 
It must be remembered that every member of the America Congress is allowed only  2  visits to his electorate per year when the Congress is sitting. A member must be at Congress whenever it is sitting. He cannot go back to his electorate over the weekend. Members can place too much importance on being in their electorates over the weekend for the simple reason that the public realises that they have a responsibility here. If the Parliament is sitting no elector desires his member to be absent. Honourable members will find that, if a telegram is sent in reply to an invitation to some function or other saying that they cannot attend because of parliamentary duties, it is twice as good as being at the function so far as votes are concerned. The greatest reputation one might have in a Parliament is that one is always there. 
When there are breaks in the sittings from time to time one loses track of the business of the Parliament and cannot keep up with it, particularly if the break is an extended one. J do not know why members would want a break in the session except for the reason that the Government docs not have any business to bring on. Committees could then meet in the recess. As it is now, it is practically impossible for the committees, including party committees, to meet because of the sittings unless they meet during the lunch hour, which is not satisfactory. 
All in all, I think it would be better for the Parliament to sit right through for 4 or  5  days a week and to finish the session. If we also had set times when we knew the Parliament would be sitting we would have a much better and happier situation. Because I know an amendment along those lines does not have much chance of being carried I do not intend to sponsor such an amendment. I intend to support the present proposals that are before the Parliament, not that I think they suit my point of view or are the best. I think we are lax in our duty in not sitting right through until we finish the session, as was done until comparatively recently. In that way we would be more satisfied. Our electors would see more of us and we would be better able to attend to our parliamentary duties. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many former Senators and Members of the House of Representatives in receipt of a Parliamentary pension at present occupy positions in the diplomatic service, the judiciary or the Government service. 
What is (a) the name of each person concerned, (b) the nature of his position, (c) the salary received and (d) the amount of any allowances paid. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act and regulations, under which the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority exercises certain powers and functions, will cease to operate on 1st July 1970. 
Has his attention been drawn to the grave concern of employees of the Authority regarding the Government's future plans for the Authority and the continuity of their employment. 
If so, will he give an assurance that the continuity of employment of the Authority's staff on prevailing rates of pay after 1st July 1970 will be protected. 
In the event of any reduction in the present functions of the Authority will he give an assurance to those affected that at least -12 months notice of the change will be given to enable them to negotiate with the Government. 
As seconder of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden),  I wish briefly to discuss this matter. I was intrigued by the views which were expressed a few moments ago by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon).  The fact is that the Opposition moved its amendment to the motion not because of any great personal animosity towards the Government or anything of that nature but in the interests of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  The Minister for the Interior praised considerably the capacity and ability of the honourable member for the Northern Territory. In my opinion if the honourable member has such capacity and ability he should have a chance to show it. The Opposition is of the opinion that if the representative in this House of the Northern Territory has these qualities they are exceedingly well hidden. Consequently honourable members on this side of the chamber would like to hear him express his views today. 
A few moments ago the Minister explained how the honourable member got the title 'Silent Sam'. He said, in effect, that the honourable member would always give way to the Minister, particularly when it would be embarrassing to the honourable member to vote against the Government, as he would have to do on this issue. The Opposition does not have to apologise for the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  because his ability has been endorsed overwhelmingly by the people of the Australian Capital Territory. When the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory speaks for the first time in this House in a few moments honourable members will see how knowledgeable the people of the Australian Capital Territory were about the qualities of their representative. But let us have a look at the position in regard to the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
As always, I bow to your wisdom and judgment.  Mr Speaker.  Not for one moment would I question his motives. The amendment provides that the debate be extended until such time as the honourable member for the Northern Territory has spoken and a vote has been taken. As 1 mentioned earlier, both these matters are tremendously important. The honourable member for the Northern Territory was not given an opportunity to speak on the last occasion this Bill was before the House. However, I understand that since that time he has had a change of views on this important issue. Tn fact, the Minister for the Interior said a moment ago that the honourable member endorsed the case for more representation for the Northern Territory. Honourable members on this side of the House are amazed to think that the Government would deny justice to one of its supporters and not allow him to express views publicly which could mean so much to him electorally, lt is for this reason that the amendment has been moved today. What is the Government frightened of? lt should be pleased to know that there is such independence in the Australian Country Party. The Opposition believes that if its amendment is carried it will enable the honourable member for the Northern Territory to express his views on this matter. At the same time it will enable the electors of the Northern Territory to judge whether their representative is capable of doing the job himself, which, as all honourable members know, is open to grave doubts, or whether he needs assistance. We on this side of the Parliament make no bones about the fact that we think he needs help and that the people of the Northern Territory need better representation. 
Naturally I bow to your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  but only yesterday the honourable member for the Northern Territory presented in this Parliament a petition from the people of Katherine seeking better and more  able representation for them. Does that not indicate that we should hear the honourable member on the question of senatorial representation for the Northern Territory? 
 I would not want you to have to do that,  Mr Speaker.  Therefore I will conclude on this note: If the amendment which the Opposition has moved is carried it will give the honourable member for the Northern Territory an opportunity to speak on a matter which is of vital interest not only to his own electorate but also to the people of Australia, but if the debate is extended only to allow the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory to express his views it will mean that the honourable member for the Northern Territory will have been denied by his own Government the right to speak on this important issue, which is not just. Honourable members on this side of the House will not tolerate that type of thing happening. That is why this motion has been moved. The Opposition believes it is entitled to do this in the interests of the honourable member. We are entitled to hear the views of the 2 people who are vitally concerned. Increased parliamentary representation is vital, and that is why the motion is all embracing. I ask: Why does the Government desire to avoid a vote? Is it not normal for parliamentary business to be conducted by debate, with expressions of opinion and perhaps wide differences, finishing up in a democratic way with a vote? Yet the Government seeks to deny the Opposition the right to have a vote at this time on this vital issue of democratic representation. That is why honourable members on this side of the House, as true democrats, support the motion. Not only have we solicitude for honourable members opposite, including the honourable member for the Northern Territory, but we would like to see democracy maintained and a vote taken on this motion. 
If the motion of the Leader of the House is carried there will be no vote on this issue and the honourable member for the Northern Territory will not be heard. Honourable members will not be able to compare the situations and see how far behind the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory he is, because only the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory will have spoken. Consequently I support the amendment that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I do so more in justice to the honourable member for the Northern Territory than for anything else. I support it so that we will have a vote on this great issue, because I do not want the opinion to be created, as the Minister does, that the honourable member for the Northern Territory does everything the Minister wants. That is not fair to the honourable member. I know that it is not true and I personally would not stand for it. The Minister says there is no need for the honourable member for the Northern Territory to speak because everybody knows what he thinks. I suppose he can think what he likes as long as he keeps it to himself. If that is the situation, honourable members would like to know what it is all about. 
I feel that I have trespassed a little on your tolerance,  Mr Speaker.  I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I would dearly love the Government to accept it in a spirit of tolerance and understanding. I can assure the Government that if it wants a division on the motion it will probably take twice as long to count as the honourable member for the Northern Territory would take to speak. The Government might as well avoid that situation by accepting the amendment. If the Government has nothing to be afraid of and if it believes in more democratic representation for everybody what is wrong with a vote and what is wrong with the honourable member speaking? Is that not reasonable? I congratulate the Leader of the Opposition on the tolerant and understanding way in which he has showed his solicitude for the honourable member for the Northern Territory on this great issue. Somewhat sorrowfully I regret that the honourable member has been discarded by his own supporters and it is left to the Opposition to defend him. He can be sure that the Opposition appreciates the situation and is doing its best for him. If he will not stand up now and do his best for himself I do not think he is entitled to be heard. 
I think the House is grateful to the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  for the generous comments he has made about the late John Curtin, a great Australian. Tomorrow I celebrate my 27th anniversary as a member of this Parliament. I believe I am one of the few members of this House who served with the late John Curtin. I was elected with his Government in 1943. I thank the honourable member for his speech about the late John Curtin and the contribution that he made to the salvation of Australia. The House is very graceful to the people responsible for the erection of the memorial. Tonight a Liberal member has spoken of a very great Australian, in a non-political way. Honourable members on this side of the chamber appreciate that as much as will the people of Australia. I join in endorsing the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Curtin. In the grimmest days that Australia has faced, when the Japanese were in the Coral Sea and this country was threatened, the man to whom the honourable member has paid tribute tonight stood as a symbol of our salvation. 1 thank the honourable member for bringing this matter to the attention of this Parliament. In my way I add my contribution to what he said and I endorse the sentiments he expressed. 
My purpose in speaking tonight is a strange one. Earlier today I had occasion to have some difference with a member of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  He is not present in the House at the moment. I hope that he did not take my remarks in a personal sense. You know,  Mr Speaker,  as a follower of the greatest game of all, that when you stand up in a rugby league scrum and get in the road you expect to get knocked out. As I said, earlier today I had occasion to differ with the honourable member for the Northern Territory. I hope that he takes my remarks in the spirit of combat that goes with sport or with politics. 
Tonight I want to pay tribute to, if not to praise, the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  who is a member of the Country Party. On 24th October 1967 I raised in this Parliament a matter which I considered to be one of the greatest injustices to an ex-serviceman that I had seen in my time in this Parliament. The person concerned is  Mr Maxwell  Matthew Medlyn, formerly of 51 West Street, Petersham and now living at Sussex Inlet.  Mr Medlyn  brought to my attention this matter which he considered to be an injustice in the nongranting of a pension. He had served in the Services and to my mind had suffered grievously but had been denied repatriation benefits. Since 1 2th July 1944 he had been appealing for a military pension. He is now totally blind. He has a wife and 2 children. A sinus operation, he said, led to his blindness. For years he had been existing on an invalid pension. 
I have raised this matter in the House many times.  Mr Medlyn  had continually appealed and his appeals had been rejected by the Repatriation Department. Honourable members might recollect that not very long ago when the present Minister for Repatriation was appointed I again raised the case of  Mr Medlyn.  At that stage  Mr Medlyn  could not get a guide dog because he could not afford to feed it. I said that this was a tragic case and one which should receive the attention of the Government and the Minister. It is to the credit of the Minister that on that night he rose in bis place and said that he would personally investigate the case. He was impressed by what 1 had said. He said that he would explore every avenue open to him short of intervention, which is not possible for a Minister in such cases, to see whether justice could be done in this case. I am happy to say that on 10th July 1970 I received advice that  Mr Medlyn's  claim had been accepted and that the TPI pension had been back dated to 7th May 1966. On 18th August I received the following letter from the Minister for Repatriation: 
I refer to your telegram in which you requested details of the present rates of pensions, and the amount of  areas  paid to  Mr Maxwell  Matthew Medlyn and his dependants. 

 Mr Medlyn now receives a fortnightly payment of $89.85 which comprises War Pension, Clothing Allowance and Attendant's Allowance.  Mrs Medlyn  receives a fortnightly pension of $10.85 which incorporates the pension payable to the Medlyn's remaining dependent child. 
Gross arrears payable amounted to $9,713.30. As you will appreciate, the amount of Social Service payments received by the Medlyn family during the period which was subsequently covered by Repatriation benefits, had to be deducted from the gross arrears. 
The net arrears of War  Pensious,  Attendant's Allowance and Clothing Allowance in respect of  Mr Medlyn,  his wife and his children, amounted to $6,924.30. This amount tas been paid to the Medlyn family by a series of cheques. The last of these cheques was forwarded on 12th August 1970. 
I place on record tonight my personal appreciation and that of the Medlyn family for the justice - no doubt delayed justice - which has been received by the suffering Medlyn family because of war injuries sustained by this man. The fact that be received SI 0,000 in back money - a net amount of just on $7,000 - indicates at least that at this stage the Repatriation Department has rectified what I considered to be a grievous injustice. 
The Minister took a personal interest in this case. 1 do not intend to go over it again but it was one of the most tragic 1 have seen. This man looks robust enough to play in any football match but is totally blind. To me it seemed most unjust that he should have been denied a pension. 1 am extremely grateful to the Minister for 
Repatriation for his personal interest. He could not intervene but I know that he spent endless time studying the files covering this case. Now we know the result. We know that $10,000 in back money has been paid. 
I received a very touching telegram from the person concerned saying that at long last his pension had been granted. All honourable members must be gratified to know that justice, although somewhat delayed, has been done. This proves 2 things. Firstly, parliamentary representation does not go unnoticed. If there is a Minister who is prepared to take notice of the representation made in the Parliament, justice can be won. I hope tonight that  Mr Medlyn,  although he is suffering greatly from his disabilities, at least takes some satisfaction from the fact that democracy has been served. He has been granted a certain pension. It was very delayed and probably he should have received it earlier. But at least now he has received justice and it came to him only through the democratic process. 
I thank the Minister for the unlimited time that I know he spent on this case. I also wish to pay my tribute to  Mr Russo  of the Legal Service Bureau and to certain medical practitioners who tendered submissions on behalf of this man. I share the Minister's satisfaction at knowing that justice has been done to a man who served his country well and who, despite the great payment made to him, is still suffering great and serious disabilities. However it must give him great satisfaction to know that his pension has been backdated for 4 years and that $10,000 has been paid. At least he can endeavour, with some security other than the invalid pension, to enjoy the life that is before him despite the suffering caused by his war disabilities. Tonight I pay my personal tribute to the Minister for Repatriation and to his Department for a very splendid effort to give justice to an ex-serviceman. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that aircraft landing on and taking off from runway 16 at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport pass over heavily populated suburbs in the electoral division of Grayndler causing distress and suffering to pensioners, families, and shift workers, and to persons in hospitals, schools, colleges, churches and industry. 
If so, will he give instructions that this runway is to be used only in emergency and that aircraft captains be advised accordingly: if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the number of (a) landings on and (b) take-offs from runway 16 at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport each day from 1st October 1969 to the present date. 
What was the total number of (a) landings and (b) take-offs at this airport in the same period. 
In each case how many of these (a) landings and (b) take-offs occurred after 11 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the installation of an instrument landing system over Botany Bay would obviate the need for aircraft to fly over heavily populated suburbs when landing or taking off from Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
Is there any reason why the instrument landing system should not be installed without delay to relieve the distress caused by aircraft noise. If not, when is it proposed to install the system. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many migrants of each nationality have been refused naturalisation on security grounds  based upon (a) extreme left wing political views or associations and (b) extreme right wing political view or associations. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration. How many migrants arrived in Australia during each of the last 2 years? What is the Government's immigration programme for 1970 and 1971? What is the basis of this programme? Will the programme be affected by the results of the 4 major studies which the Minister has just announced? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Did the Tariff Board in its recent report on man-made fibres suggest that, at the expiration of a period of 18 months, a most critical part of its proposed protection should cease to be operative. 
In accepting the Board's report does the Government also accept this suggestion, or will he now give an assurance that no such action will be permitted without a public hearing by the Board to determine whether the circumstances at the time warrant a cessation of protection. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
How many Australian trade missions have been organised or sponsored by his Department in the past 5 years. 
What were the (a) names of the members of the delegations, (b) organisations represented and (c) countries visited. 
What was the annual value of exports to each country visited at the time of the visit. 
Have any members of the Commonwealth Parliament been included in these delegations; if so, what are their names and to which delegations were they attached. 
If members of the Parliament have not been included in these missions, why not. 
Will the Minister consider including Parliamentary representatives in future missions; if not, why not. 
This week reports indicate that members of the Liberal Party were worried - quite rightly so - at the great public image of the Australian Labor Party. The clarion call has gone forth: 'We must fight an election on the law and order issue.' Could honourable members imagine anything sillier than the Liberal Party fighting on law and order? Everybody knows that the Liberal Party is a desperate, discredited rabble which is riddled with hatred, bitterness and intrigue, and is grasping at straws to avoid political doom. Why would Liberal Party members not try to fight on some other front? Look at the disunity that exists among them. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  I would refer to as the reluctant rebel from La Trobe. He talks as he likes but votes as he is told, and he does it again and again. Tonight he is the custodian of and the fighter for the Liberal rally for salvation. Why would not the Liberal Party want to fight on law and order? Why would it not want to get away from criticism of this Budget which it has brought in? Why would it not get away from the disunity between the Liberal Party and the Country Party? Why does it not want to escape from its responsibilities to the primary producers and others? Why does it not want to get away from the selling of wool to China - its Communist enemy, as it says - which shoots down Australian fighting men in Vietnam? Why docs it not want to escape from the Fill contract and the waste there? Why does it not want to get away from thousand and one other things like the gaoling of men who oppose the war in Vietnam, as mentioned by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  a few moments ago? 
What short memories honourable members on that side of the fence who believe in law and order have. Do honourable members remember that magnificent move when the Labor Party sought to nationalise the banks? The present Government's own members stood in this Parliament and exhorted the people of this country to rebel against the legislation, to fight in the streets and the banks by any methods necessary in order to destroy the Labor Party and the legislation. 1 stood in halls from one end of this country to the other in which agitators paid by the Liberal Party and Country Party disrupted meetings in the most violent and disruptive fashion. These are the people who talk of law and order. Throughout the debate on the Communist Party Dissolution Bill did honourable members ever stand on a platform while the Liberal rabble tried to howl speakers down? Even when the Labor Party's attitude was endorsed by the Australian people Liberal Party supporters were still endeavouring to disrupt the meetings. Do honourable members recall Rothbury in New South Wales where a miner was shot at a Liberal Government's instigation to stop a riot at that time? The Country Party once had a member named Thorby and they called him 'Shootemdown Thorby' because he wanted to shoot every fellow that went on strike. Yet these are supposed to be the law and order parties in this country today. 
We remember the New Guard. Who will ever forget it? It put up its own organisation to take over the Government of New South Wales at the time when J. T. Lang, now the hero of the Liberal Party, was Premier of that State. Even at that stage  Sir Eric  Harrison, formerly a leading member of the Liberal Party in this House, was supposed to be a member of it. The Liberal Party supported this Fascist movement and it. now talks about law and order. Honourable members on the Government side talking about law and order must be regarded as one of the greatest jokes of the century. Why should people today not have the right to express themselves? The Government knows that it is on the way to political doom and it is frightened of dissent. It is frightened of people criticising. By all possible police state methods the Government seeks to suppress criticism of its actions in this Parliament and in other places. 
The Government is using every form of intimidation under the guise of law and order to try to stop people from protesting. The poor old souls who were out in front of Parliament House the other day, who came up here expecting that they would get more than a miserable SOc from this contemptible Government, staggered out to the front of the House to wave banners in their frail and sick hands. The Government turned the photographers on them to take their photographs. Those aged people were considered subversive; they were undermining the Government. The poor souls could hardly stagger up here so weak and ill were they from want because of this Government's failure to give them sustenance to carry on. Fancy the security police being turned on them. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  noted with pride the efficiency of his police officers in photographing these dear old souls who could not in a week have run away from danger. This is Liberal Party law and order. These are the methods the Liberals use; yet they talk about law and order. 
The Government should be revealed to the people for what it is. It is the greatest farce of our time. The law and order specialists on the Government side, under another name, are the people who believe in suppression of the rights of the individual, suppression of the right to dissent and the gaoling of people who do not agree with them. The gaols of this country have men in them today simply because they protested against legislation which the vast majority of Australians do not countenance. Are we to have a law and order election? I hope that the Government accepts the challenge of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in respect of this Budget. Let us have an election on law and order at this very time. I can see those honourable members opposite who want an election, and one of them is the honourable member for La Trobe. If he wants to get rid of people on this side then he should vote against the Budget. We will face the people on any issue which the Liberal Party cares to nominate, including the Fascist law and order proposals put before the Australian people. Tonight I invite the Liberal Party to accept the challenge that is held out to it. Let us fight an election on law and order. 1 have no doubt that if such an election took place the Labor Party would have so many members on the Government side of the House that it would be one of the most historic victories of our time and one of the greatest. 
The honourable member for Boothby has interjected - the South African sponsor; the Rhodesian sponsor. 
He wishes to introduce his legislation from Rhodesia. Let us hope that he does not become a Minister; he would probably abolish the monarchy. When all is said and done he believes in Rhodesian policies. I would like to hear the honourable member speak on his form of law and order. I ask him: Do you believe in men going to gaol without a trial, as they do in Rhodesia? Do you believe in the suppression, the treatment and the torture that comes to them? Let us hear the honourable member's plan for law and order. We heard intimidation tonight from the honourable member for La Trobe and we had a threat by the Prime Minister, but these things should not mislead the people of this country. They should know the nature of the political parties that sponsor these things, and that when legislation was introduced in this Parliament that did not suit the huge interests behind them in days gone by, every force known to man was used to destroy the Labor government of the day irrespective of the effect that might have on the law abiding citizens of this country. I know that you,  Mr Speaker,  would not agree with this. You are one of the few democrats remaining in the Liberal Party. Tonight you must sit there with pride knowing that you are not associated with these people, free as you are from the contamination of the policies which they espouse in this Parliament. 
I was interested to hear this campaign was to come on tonight. I knew that something must have been on because I saw that the galleries were filled with pressmen. Knowing that the honourable member for La Trobe was going to speak I knew that the pressmen would not have come in unless they were asked to do so. So I say to Government supporters: If you do not want us to know that something is on, never put up the honourable member for La Trobe because he is the best indication that something is coming along. Otherwise, there would be no-one around the place. If I might coin a phrase, I am sad to see this once great Party a disunited rabble today, afraid to fight on its policies, ashamed to go to the people on a 50c Budget increase for pensioners, ashamed to fight on the great principles which it once espoused. Now, under the guise of restoring law and order, the Government is seeking to have re-elected a government the people do not want. More in sorrow than in anger I say again that it is sad to see the decline of a once great Party. I see that the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  is silently agreeing with me in his inimitable way. I cannot help noticing that at last the Country Party - or at least half the coalition parties - has awakened to what the Government is doing to this country. I hope that other honourable members on that side of the chamber will state their plan for law and order. Is it a matter of guns, men to be imprisoned without trial and all those things? We are entitled to know. I say to the public that the greatest joke of our time is that the Liberal and Country Parties talk of law and order when they are the greatest lawbreakers in the land. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer tomy questions Nos 540 and 724 which were placed on the Notice Paper on 19th March and15th April respectively. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the members of the Senate and the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That due to higher living cost, persons on social service pensions, are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of average weekly male earnings, plus supplementary assistance in accordance with ACTU policy and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
The average weekly earnings for adult male unit wage and salary earner means the figures issued from time to time by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition; so that our citizens receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which is in these terms: 
That all words .after 'That' be omitted with a view to Inserting the following words in place thereof: This House condemns this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian people, especially with respect to (a) standards of social service and war pensioners, (b) assistance to school, hospital and urban authorities and (c) restructuring of stricken primary industries and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature*. 
That is a challenge to this Government to face the Australian people. Let them pass judgment on the Budget, which this Government says is a good one. If the Government is so proud of our prosperity and the contents of this Budget, why not let the Australian people decide? Some honourable members on the Government side of the chamber, those few who bothered to speak in this debate - and they were extremely rare - attacked the social welfare measures in the Budget quite outspokenly. The honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  said that there was not near enough for the poor and needy. There is an opportanity available now for Government supporters who think along those lines to face the Australian people on the issue. If honourable members on the Government side think that the Australian Labor Party cannot win an election then why not give it a go? This is the opportunity that they say they have been waiting for. The Labor Party invites them to accept the challenge, particularly in the Hume electorate. We know that the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  will be cast into political limbo the minute an election is held, be it next year or next week. 
I congratulate Government supporters for their presentation of the Government's case for this Budget. They did it in avery simple way: They did not talk about it at all. My comment is that if one is a Government supporter then the less said about this Budget the better. Everyone, from one end of this country to another - from the country towns of the outback to the great cities of Australia has condemned this Government openly and through the Press for its complete failure to meet every need of the Australian people in this document which has been presented to us as a budget. I do not blame honourable members opposite for dodging around this Budget. No-one who is sane and honest could defend it, and that is giving the Liberals plenty of scope. That is why today the Minister for the Interior warbled in his speech. It was not until the last couple of minutes of his speech that we realised he was not making a statement on Aboriginal affairs or something else, so far divorced was he from the issues in the Budget. 
What does the Budget contain? This Budget certainly favours the wealthy and discards the poor. The Budget is a sleight of hand trick. The Government gives you something with one hand and takes it back with the other. The Sydney 'Sun* asked: What will people get?' The people will get income tax reductions, certain increases in pensions, some repatriation benefits, some sickness benefits and something for sheltered workshops. There is also a little for the Aboriginals, increased university scholarships and some assistance for wool growers. The 'Sun' then asked what people will give back. The price of petrol has gone up by a couple of cents. A tax has been imposed on wine. If you drink water you are all right. Companies are putting in a little more but not too much because they are friends of the Government. Also, there have been increases in the cost of radio licences, tobacco, telephones, postage and telegrams. When we look at this list we find that the Government gives out 23 lm to the taxpayer and takes back $239m. This is generosity deluxe. No wonder honourable members opposite do not want to discuss this aspect of the Budget. A couple of Liberals who appeared on a television programme the other night said: 'Yes, but we did not take back too much, did we?' What is the difference? The Government took back $8m more than it gave, indicating that the Budget is a sleight of hand trick. That is why the Budget has been condemned everywhere. 
Even soft drinks have been taxed. Never mind about pensioners having a beer or a cigarette; if they drink Shelley's cordials this Government will take a bit out of the glass of the poor old pensioner by increasing the sales tax on soft drinks. This is the Government that said it was doing everything for the nation. Let us have a look at what the Government promised when it came to office, particularly in the field of social welfare. The Governor-General, who was speaking for the Government, in his opening speech to Parliament in March 1968 said: 
My Government will review the field of social welfare with the object of assisting those in most need while at the same time not discouraging thrift, self-help and self-reliance. 
They will certainly want plenty of self-help and self-reliance under this Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has said that the Government wants to see that the old and sick have enough to live on at least in a simple and frugal way. I congratulate the Prime Minister of Australia for that statement. There is no doubt about pensioners being able to live on 50c a week in a simple frugal way. They now know that the Prime Minister ha carried out his great social reform. The frugal way in which pensioners are forced to exist today is an indication of the complete contempt in which honourable members opposite hold this section of society. 
Let us have a look at what has happened to pensioners in this great age of affluence. How often do we hear members of the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party tell us that there are a couple of million motor cars in Australia, that everyone has a television set or that radios are everywhere? They say there is prosperity from one end of the land to the other. They tell us that this is a society of affluence - a society of prosperity. Yet the Government has brought down a Budget which gives 50c a week to a pensioner. I wonder how the Government worked out this figure? What brains there must be in the Ministry to work out such an amount. I wonder how they got down to 50c? We can imagine how members of the Cabinet congregated around the Cabinet table to determine that pensioners should receive 50c a week. The Government says that a single pensioner in this great age of affluence will receive $ 15.50 a week. What a magnificent amount. If he is really poor and does not have other income of $26 a week the Government will give him another $2 to make up the amount to $.17.50 a week. This is what a pensioner has to live on in this age of affluence when the average wage is about $75 a week. 
Of course, if you happen to commit the sin of being married this Government says that you deserve to be penalised. A married couple receives less than a single pensioner. A single pensioner receives $15.50 and a married pensioner receives $13.75. This is the discrimination that exists in this section of society. The Australian Labor Party believes that there should be a standard rate pension and that equitable payments should be made for those in deserving circumstances, according to a predetermined scale. When the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  made his Budget Speech he did not smile. One might have thought he did smile at times but I believe it was a snarl. The Treasurer said that an extra 60c a week would be paid for war orphans. These are the kids whose fathers have been killed in war. 
As I have said, pensioners will receive an extra 50c a week. This represents 7c  a  day which is barely the cost of a newspaper to read about the increased cost of living the next day. A pensioner would not be able to afford to buy a Sunday paper with this increase. He would have no chance of getting the evening paper because he could not afford to do so. Of course, he might get a packet of cigarettes every week out of this increase. When we go a little further along the line we find that this increase will not be back-dated as were the salaries of judges. The increased pension will be paid in October or November. The Government's decisions when framing the Budget are arrived at by the simple old Liberal method of tweedledee tweedledum - -is it an election year or is it not? The Government gives $1 in an election year and 50c. in an off year. This is how matters are determined under this Government. There is no method, no justice and no respect for the aged or the sick. This is the new approach promised by the Government in days gone by. Of course, I have long ago given away the former fiery rebel who is now emancipated on the front bench. I refer to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  So far as I can see his great days are gone. The roaring lion of days gone by is now a worn out old tom cat. 
On 21st March the honourable member for Evans made a speech on social welfare. It nearly made me sick when I listened to him because this is what he had to say: 
I have been recently investigating personally the plight of various groups in my electorate in the suburbs of Drummoyne, Five Dock and Ashfield. What I have seen in some cases - and I make no apology for saying it - has often made me feel physically sick, morally indignant and deeply determined to see the nation face its responsibility. 
What has the honourable member done? The honourable member made a speech on the Budget in this House yesterday. He did not justify the 50c rise in pensions. However, he said he would not vote against the Budget because he could not join the Labor Party under any circumstances. To start with, we would not have him under any circumstances. But to get an additional amount of increase for these deserving people the honourable member is not prepared to support the amendment that the Leader of the Opposition has moved on behalf of the Labor Party in this Parlia ment. The increase that has been granted to pensioners does not even match the 5 per cent increase in the cost of living in the last 12 months. Pensioners today are second class citizens. 
Pensioners protested and marched to this Parliament on the eve of the Budget being introduced. The Government was not prepared to allow subversive people like these come to the Parliament so it sent photographers out to photograph these poor old aged people, trembling with their hands waving and holding up grim banners asking for sustenance from this Government. The Minister for the Interior sent his best photographers out because it was felt that these people might be subversive. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation wanted photographs of these sinister people who were protesting against the meagre increase in pensions. These people were photographed in their misery as they protested for additional pensions outside of Parliament. I want to see the day when photographs are taken on the wheat growers and the wool growers lined up outside the front of the Parliament being addressed by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen),  the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  I want to see members of ASIO photographing these subversive elements in the Country Party and the rural industries. I want to see photographs taken of wheat growers and others, just as photographs were taken of the poor old pensioners seeking sustenance. I suggest to honourable members opposite that this will be a very interesting day. 
I want to ask the Parliament whether it really considers that 50c is enough? Let honourable members on the other side get up and justify their contention if they believe that 50c is enough. I want to make a few comparisons. Let us have a look at other sections of the community to see how they are treated. Recently the Labor Party opposed an increase in judge's salaries by the small amount of $6,000 per annum. Of course, these men were struggling. Before this increase was granted one judge was getting only $23,000 a year and the Chief Justice could not exist on $30,000. Yet, the Parliament gave them an increase of $115 a week or $17.10 a day. In addition they were given substantial travel concessions. So judges received an increase of $115 a week or $17 a day and the pensioner, under this Budget, has received the equivalent of the cost of a newspaper or 7c a day. What a scandalous and shocking state of affairs. 
Let us consider the tax deductions proposed in the Budget. A person on $30,000 a year will receive a deduction of $69 a year or approximately $1.50 a week, while the pensioner will get 50c a week. The man on a weekly wage of $.160 will receive a tax deduction of $247 a year or $5 a week. This is discrimination of the worst kind against the most deserving section of the community. As 1 glanced through the Budget papers I noticed the provision of a special payment of $27,000 to Mie widow of a deceased judge. I do not want to reflect on those concerned, but why $27,000 for the widow of a judge when, at the same time, 50c a week only is given to the age, invalid or widow pensioner? The other payments proposed in the Budget are to be backdated in most instances, but there is no similar justice for pensioners. They have to wait until the Budget is passed. If we compare the position of judges who are receiving $30,000 a year, $520 a week or $74 a day with pensioners who are expected to live on $15.50 a week the position cries out to high heaven. The Government, which has brought about this situation, should be defeated on the floor of the Parliament and should face the people on its policy. 
I wonder whether most Australians realise that today more than 700,000 fellow Australians are receiving the age pension and that 3 out of 4 of them have no source of income other than the pension. Half of them do not own their own homes and 1 in 5 is the victim of acute poverty. These are grim figures in a country that boasts of its prosperity, yet this Government gives 50c a week extra to that section of society which is the most deserving and which is unable to help itself at a time when the rest of Australia seems to enjoy a measure of prosperity. The honourable member for Evans spoke about the means test. In 1949 the Liberal Party came into power in Australia and it made 2 pledges which we should never forget. It said it would put value back into the 1. When it failed it changed the 1 into the $1 to get away from its promise of 1949. In addition to that, it promised that it would introduce into Australia by 1952 a superannuation scheme for endorsement by the Australian people, lt is 21 years since it came into power and we are still waiting for that scheme. 
On the other side of the picture, what has happened? A reduction in income tax is proposed. This will apply, on a diminishing percentage, to incomes ranging up to $32,000 a year. What about those huge companies, the profits of which have been announced - like Mount Isa Mines Ltd with $55m? The Government proposes to add 2.5c in the dollar to the rates on taxable incomes of companies. But those companies will get other concessions that are not available to other sections of society. The water spout which has been provided in Canberra to celebrate Captain Cook's discovery of Australia costs $32,000 a year to maintain, yet the Government would not give the pensioners a week s pay to celebrate that event. The Government would rather pay to have water spouting into the anr. lt is disgraceful. Those companies which have been cited in this Parliament as having huge funds, resources and profits could well afford to pay more taxation in order that the Government could meet its commitments to the aged and sick. 
There are a couple of other matters at which I. want to look. We constantly hear Government members talking about respect for law and order. Of course when the Labor Party is riding high they have to get some issue on which to attack us. They talk about the Communists, strikes or something like that. Now they are talking about law and order. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  know that those who have the least respect for law and order in Australia are those who sit on the Government benches. The Labor Party is the essence of dignity and decorum in this House. Constantly honourable members opposite are called to order because they heed not the rule of law. Yet they are trying to insist on respect for law and order for other people. Why should not the workers strike when their wages are eaten up by inflation? Why should not  Mr Hawke  and others tell the workers to use their only weapon - their right to withhold labour - in a crisis? The real reason for strikes today is that inflation is eating up the earnings of the workers, and strikes are an indication of their distrust of this 
Government and their desire for a change. There is need for real social justice for pensioners and workers in industry. Workers strike to bring home to the Government the realisation that something must be done. 
Let us look at honourable members opposite. I am intrigued by the Country Party, which is a remarkable body of men. They are supposed to represent primary producers but I will bet that if we checked their addresses we would find that most of them were Kings Cross farmers. Let us consider the wool industry. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  continually gets under the skin of Country Party members because they know that he not only won a seat which was misrepresented by the Country Party in days gone by but he has made it one of the greatest Labor seats in Australia because he is a man who talks and works for country people in a way that country people understand. Let us look, too. at the Liberal Party. When the ban was imposed on the export of merino rams we were told by members of the Country Party that they acted on the advice of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. But now they oppose the single marketing authority which ;s recommended by the Australian Wool Industry Conference, and they have given way to the Liberal Party on rural policy. I say this more in sorrow than in anger. As we walk around the passages of Parliament House we hear members of the Country Party whispering about these dreadful sinister Liberals and saying how they are undermining the Country Party. Yet they surrender to the Liberals on rural policy which is supposed to be the basis of Country Party representation. 
Rarely in the history of the Parliament has there been seen such a display of political cowardice and hypocrisy as that exhibited by members of the Country Party. For 2 months the Country Party had been preaching the need for a single wool marketing authority. The members of that Party always talk about it outside the Parliament because they cannot be challenged there. In the Parliament they are as docile and mute as rabbits suffering from myxomatosis. They follow the leadership of the Liberal Party whose policy has been to sabotage the single marketing authority. Labor policy is clear. Labor favours a single marketing authority for wool in Australia, If members of the Country Party had any principle and if they really believed in helping the wool growers they would buck the Liberal Party and move a motion in this House in support of the policy which they should support. We would welcome the opportunity and give them leave to do so but, as usual, the roaring lions of the Country Party electorates are reduced to a shivering rump when the real test is applied in the Parliament. These are the people who are supposed to represent country people. As I say, they whisper in the passages but, at the same time, they abrogate their responsibilities in the Parliament. 
Seeing that honourable members opposite are trying to accuse the Labor Party of not observing law and order, why should not the general public be reminded of the disunity that exists in the Government's ranks? Everybody knows that the former Treasurer - one of the best we had had - was sacked because he ran against the Prime Minister for leadership of his Party. The story is that he is on the way out now and that he will not be around for very long. Despite his great ability as Treasurer he now has to wander around the United Nations because the Prime Minister does not want him near him in this Parliament. Who will ever forget that notable occasion in the Parliament not long ago when the retired rebels of the Liberal Party rose and said they would defeat the Ministry? We saw the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  running up and down like a decapitated fowl trying to pull them into line. We saw the Prime Minister almost crying to the  Deputy  Prime Minister for assistance to save the Government. We saw Press headlines: 'McEwen Speaks Out: New Demands for the Coalition'. He sways the Government. He picked the Prime Minister. He would not have  Mr McMahon  until, of course, he had Hobson's choice and decided that the Prime Minister was better than the rest that were offering. 
Every time we read the newspapers we see evidence of disunity in the Government Parties. One headline read: 'The Treasurer Sacked'. What would the headlines say if something like that happened on our side of the Parliament? Another headline read:  Mr Gorton's  Mushroom Club'. We all know the chief spore. Yet another headline read: 'McEwen Demands One More Seat to Country Party in Cabinet'. This is the united Party! Does it not grieve honourable members to see, if I might coin a phrase, this once great Party in this dreadful position? Another headline read: 'Decision Day on the Prime Minister - McEwen Puts New Demands'. No wonder primary industry is going to wrack and ruin. The  Deputy  Prime Minister spends all his time demanding things from the Liberal Party. Every time we look around there is a revolt in the Liberal ranks. But let us hear what the  Deputy.  Prime Minister thinks of the Prime Minister. I have here a journal containing a report of that famous episode here when it was thought that the Liberal Party rebels might bring about the defeat of the Government. It states under the heading: 'Gorton in Rage' that the Minister for Trade and Industry said: 
I'd rather negotiate 10 trade treaties than deal wilh that man. 
Must they nol be a happy band around the table? Must they not be happy as they sip their Scotch and soda? The article then states: 
McEwen abused. 
So the Prime Minister does not sit around listening to him all the time. This is the disunited rabble we are told is supposed to be in charge of the government of this country. I have here dozens and dozens of such references. I could fill Hansard with them. The Government of the day is a riddled and discontented section of the Parliament. Honourable members know this as well as I do. It grieves me, having been here a long time, to see the dissension and the political intrigue and sordid scheming on that side of the Parliament, the bitterness between members, the hatred between the Liberal Party and the Country Party and the differing policies on everything from primary production to social services. The Country Party, for instance, has always been in favour of low wages and is an anti-social services party. The Liberal Party is trying to meet the Country Party half way and is falling over backwards in the process. 
In addition we have the Government rebels. Take, for example, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  from Queensland. My heavens, if any man was disgusted with the Government, the hon ourable member for Lilley must have been, because he said that even in the lowly position of  Deputy  Government Whip be could not serve under this man'. Let us be honest. One could not get much lower than being  Deputy  Whip on that side of the House. It is no wonder that the Government wants some law and order. But why do honourable members opposite not look in their own backyard first. Why do they not choose as a leader someone who will keep law and order in the Party, because we are grieved here when we see these events in the light of day. This is a great country that wants leadership and that wants a government that knows what to do. But how can anyone provide this leadership when he does not know from where a knife will come as he is standing at the table to answer a question, lt is noticeable that the Prime Minister does not come into the House much. He cannot see who is sitting behind him: that is the real truth of the matter. 
These are the people who are criticising the Labor Party, and it is because of the way that they are running the country that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam)  moved his amendment to the Budget. Inevitably the Government must face the electors. What I am saying today in this Parliament about the shortcomings of the Government and the disunity that exists in the Government is known from one end of Australia to the other by the people. I wonder how long this Parliament can tolerate a small section of aging gentlemen like the gentlemen of the Country Party dominating the Parliament in this age of affluence and prosperity and in this atomic age. For how long are we to have the tail wagging the dog? The Leader of the Opposition moved his amendment because he believes it is time that an end was called to this Government and time that it faced the Australian electorate. 
It is not my intention to proceed further. Much more could be said in this debate, but I say to the Australian people that on the pensions scheme the voice of Labor is clear. We think that the 50c increase is miserable and contemptible. If for no other reason the Government deserves to be condemned, lt is incapable of giving effect to any policies because of the disunity that exists within its ranks. I think the Prime Minister is ashamed of the 
Budget, because he did not even bother to speak on it Let me say that I congratulate him, because if anything would have wrecked him it would have been a speech supporting a Budget like this. I would say that the former Treasurer must be a happy man today because, if I may use an expression just' in passing, he has made a donkey out of the new Treasurer by showing how far behind the previous Budget this Budget is. 
Australia is a great country, but the people are demanding attention and primary industry is going to the wall because the policies that the Government has implemented in relation to primary industry up to this stage have been the product of 20 years of Country Party thinking. Every cocky and every grazier is going broke today because of the policies that have been foisted on the Parliament by the Country Party. The disunity, dissension, hatred and intrigue - things so foreign to the Labor Party - that exist in the Liberal Party are also having a detrimental effect on the country.  Mr Speaker,I  am certain that if you were on the floor of the House you would cross the floor to support this side of the Parliament on its amendment. I hope that in the interests of all Australians the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition will be carried and that this Government will face the electorate. Let the people judge, and let me prophesy that there is no doubt what will happen if there is an election. Labor will be overwhelmingly swept onto the Government benches to give real leadership to this country. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have listened with interest to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  who constantly gives forth on what are very important matters associated with the conduct of the Parliament. However, in the course of his speech, he mentioned the lack of information regarding the business to be presented to the Parliament and the failure to inform members of the programme of business in sufficient time to allow them ample opportunity for discussion and preparation in respect of those matters. But I think the honourable member is a little unfair to blame the Leader of the House, whoever he may be, for that state of affairs. The fault lies in the Standing Orders. Standing order 107 provides: 
A  Member may propose to the  Speaker  that  a  definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion. The Member proposing the matter shall present to the  Speaker  at least one hour before the time fixed for the meeting of the House a written statement of the matter proposed to be discussed; and if the  Speaker  determines that it is in order, he shall read it to the House. The proposed discussion must be supported by eight Members, including the proposer, rising in their places as indicating approval. The  Speaker  shall then call upon the Member who had proposed the matter to speak. 
The point I make is this: You,  Mr Speaker,  are notified of what is to be raised for discussion as a matter of public importance. You then transmit it to the Leader of the House. Consequently, he may not know of it until some time after you are notified. In your case, as you are a very active  aDd  agile Speaker, no doubt you would get the information to him in a few minutes. But other persons holding the office of Speaker may take half an hour to three quarters of an hour to pass on that information. The situation could arise that the Leader of the House  might not know what was to be before the House until a quarter of an hour or 10 minutes before the time the House assembled. 
If the honourable member for Bradfield desires to alter this practice, the Standing Orders should be amended to provide that the information required should be presented to  Mr Speaker  2 hours or 3 hours before the meeting of the House. But let us face the facts of life. One of the axioms of politics is that one seizes and takes advantage of one's opportunities. Surprise is a very important element. Oppositions do not wish to let Governments know what they are to do some 2 days or some 2 hours before they take certain action. A requirement of I hour's notice concerning discussions of matters of public importance seems not unreasonable because the element of surprise is important. Therefore, J think it is a little unfair to blame the Leader of the House, be he Liberal or Labor, for this state of affairs. If the honourable member for Bradfield desires to alter that state of affairs, the Standing Orders must be amended accordingly. 
He may wish to go further. I see no reason why the Opposition should tell the Government what it is going to do a couple of hours before the House assembles. I think that this is part of parliamentary procedure. We know that, in the case of the present Government, if we told it 3 hours before the House assembled what we intended to do, the Government would whip up one of those phoney replies that it always whips up to our argument. The more time the Government has to do that, the better the phoney reply probably will be. The point that I make is this: The Leader of the House cannot necessarily be blamed for this state of affairs. Rather does the fault lie with the Standing Orders. 
With all this talk about the Parliament sitting in daylight hours, I do not know why the Government does not introduce daylight saving into the Australian Capital Territory. If we are to sit longer in daylight hours, such a move might well solve a number of the problems of the Parliament. Some of the populace perhaps would be in favour of that move too. 

 Mr Speaker, I wish to refer now to a rather strange alliance which J have formed. I am a bil with the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  on the submissions that he has made to the Parliament. ] think that this would be one of the best unity tickers that we have had in the Parliament for a long time. I regret to say that my colleagues must think - quite rightly so, f think - that I am somewhat suspect. In that respect, I am a little with them. 1 pay this tribute to the Minister for Social Services. Like the honourable member for Bradfield, he always has been closely interested in improving the methods of debate and other matters associated with the condust of the Parliament. 
Tonight I say quite seriously that I read with interest the submission that he sent on 28th August 1970 to all honourable members. In bis submission, the Minister outlined his proposals for the conduct of the business of this Parliament. As honourable members will see in the document, the Minister proposes that the House should assemble each day, except the one Friday sitting in each 2-week period, at 2.30 p.m., and should continue to sit through the normal suspension hours until (0 p.m. on all sitting days except Friday when the time of adjournment would be 4 p.m. The total number of sitting hours would be 58 compared with 57i hours under the &gt;proposals put forward by the Standing Orders Committee. The sitting hours enunciated by the Minister for Social Services not only provide for an additional half an hour each 2 weeks but also give to every member of this Parliament the opportunity to participate in the various committees with which he is associated on each morning of the week except Friday. These are very reasonable sitting hours. 
J have seen the British House of Commons sit through the meal periods. I. believe the same procedure applies in the Congress of the United States of America. With due respect to the honourable member for Bradfield, I see no reason why we could not prepare at this stage to adopt this proposal.I know that staff matters enter into the consideration. The question of dining room hours, etc., arises. But these matters could be dealt with over a period. We do not expect these new arrangements to be introduced tomorrow week. Perhaps something could be arranged by next year. 
I will go a little further than the Minister has gone. The United States Congress sits for 6 hours straight - from 12 noon until 6 p.m.. Why should not this Parliament sit from 1 p.m.? Most members could benefit from dieting a little. If they did not wish to eat at 12 noon, they need not eat at all. This would allow the Parliament an additional hour's sitting each day. In that Way, in a 2-week sitting, 62 hours instead of 58 hours would be available. I see no reason why that plan could not be adopted. Also, I would amend the proposals made by the Minister for Social Services regarding the calling of quorums. I do not think that quorums should be called between the hours of 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. Such a rule would allow for the better working of this Parliament and would allow members more time for committee purposes. It would facilitate the business of the Parliament in every way. 
As a union man, I do not wish to have anybody work in what ought to be his or her meal break. What would this mean? It would mean that we would need more Hansard reporters, and more people to work in the dining room, and that more people generally would work in Parliament House. This is all to the good. The more people employed, the better it is. But the need for additional staff is no excuse why these proposals, which would benefit the working of the Parliament, should not be adopted. 
The honourable member for Bradfield asks about committees. The Parliamentary Labor Party has 12 or 13 committees. Considerable difficulty is experienced in getting the members of those committees together in an afternoon when Parliament is sitting. It would be convenient if those committees could sit without fear of interruption each morning of the week with the exception of Friday. It would be nice for a member of the Joint 
Committee on Foreign Affairs or, of any other committee to know that he would not need to dash away from a meeting as he might be required to do when the Parliament was in session. 
If the submission made by the Minister for Social Services does nothing else, it does allow more natural time for parliamentary debate and it does allow honourable members more time to concentrate on committe work which can be constantly interrupted if members are required to dash away from a sitting to answer the call of the quorum bells. The Standing Orders would need to be amended to provide that no quorum could be called during the hours when the House normally suspended for meal break purposes. That, I think, is reasonable. Most people outside probably think that 'quorum' is the name of a race horse. It would not make much difference to the populace at large. It is an expression, a procedure, that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I know but which the people outside do not know. I do not think that the Minister's proposals would work unless the opportunity to call quorums during normal suspension times for meals was abolished. If this were done, and the House sat through those suspension times, a tremendous improvement would be achieved and the Parliament would get through a lot more business. 
I am one who thinks that the feeling of the House should be tested on this matter. I propose to move the Minister's proposals as sent to us in his letter. This proves that my association with him on this issue is almost complete. I hope only that the Minister will vote for his proposals when the question is put to the Parliament. Therefore, I formally move: 
Unless otherwise ordered, meeting times of the House shall be as follows - 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday - 2.30 pm. 
Friday- 10.30 a.m. and, subject to these Standing Orders, each sitting shall continue without interruption until the Adjournment, unless the House otherwise decides. 40a. Between the hours of 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. and between the hours of 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. the following special provisions shall apply - 
If, on the call for a quorum, no quorum be obtained, the sitting shall be suspended until the first occurring of 2 p.m. or 8 p.m. and any time set down for the commencement of the Adjournment debate that day shall be postponed by the length of time of such suspension. 
Upon  the  putting of any question, any member may require the adjournment of the Debate, and in such case die next Business of the Day shall be called on forthwith, and the adjourned Vote shall be taken as soon as convenient after the first occurring of 2 p.m or 8 p.m., and the adjourned Debate, if not already concluded, shall then be resumed. 
The Chair may, if it thinks fit, adjourn the sitting until the fir,t occurring of 2 p.m. or 8 p.m. 40b. The  Speaker  may make arrangements for the recording of short-term pairs, applying for the single day between the hours of 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. or 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. 
I  do not say this in any facetious way, but  I  think it would be a decided improvement on the methods adopted today and would allow time for discussions and allied matters. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Grayndler that he cannot move a further amendment. There is already an amendment before the House moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. Until the House decides on that amendment there cannot be a further amendment moved to the question. Am 1 right in assuming that the Minister to whom the honourable member for Grayndler was referring was the Minister for Social Services and not the Leader of the House? 
 Yes. Being a patient citizen,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  T am prepared to wait until the other amendment is disposed of.  I  say formally that  I  think the proposals of the Minister are very sound and worth the consideration of the House. They are not party political matters in any way.  I  hope that honourable members will vote on the amendment as they think fit because the question of whether we should transform our proceedings along the lines suggested by the Minister is worthy of testing by the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The position at the moment is that by leave 5 amendments have been moved together to the original question before the 
House. Until the House decides on those amendments no further amendment can be moved. 

 Mr FAIRBAIRN  (Farrer) [9.42 J - I shall not detain the House very long, but  I  want to support one of the amendments moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  namely, his fourth amendment which proposes that instead of meeting on Tuesdays at 10 a.m. we should meet on Tuesdays at 2.30 p.m.  I  say this because  I  am Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee which now meets on every Tuesday morning when the House is meeting. The Committee has looked at possible alternatives. Quite frankly,  I  cannot see any alternative. The Committee is not permitted to meet while the House is sitting, lt would be very difficult for us to meet regularly even switching to a 3-week cycle, that is, meeting for 2 weeks and rising for I week instead of the present system under which we meet for 3 weeks and rise for a week. Under the new procedure the Foreign Affairs Committee would be meeting for only 2 weeks out of 3 instead of 3 weeks out of 4.  I  believe that this time should bc made available to the Committee. 
The Foreign Affairs Committee is not the only Committee affected. The Public Works Committee of which the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is  Chairman,  and the Public Accounts Committee of which the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  is  Chairman,  would also be affected.  I  believe it is important that these joint parliamentary committees, which are some of the most important committees of the House, should have this opportunity of meeting. So  I  hope that everyone will support the amendment which will enable us to continue to meet every Tuesday when the House is meeting. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said that he found himself in a unity ticket with the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentwortb).  I find myself also with a strange bed-fellow, because  I  believe that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  supports the amendment. 1 believe that it is important that the House should vote for the amendment to enable these important committees to meet and have ample time to meet. The Foreign Affairs Committee is addressed  by distinguished diplomats and. by experts in foreign affairs generally. This is of enormous importance to us and to the House. The Foreign Affairs Committee alone comprises 22 members, which is nearly one-fifth of the members of the House. I hope that honourable members will carry the amendment. 
Although the Standing Orders do not provide for it, it is customary for an honourable member who intends to raise a matter of definite public importance to inform you,  Mr Speaker,  of his intention and to advise also the Leader of the Opposition or the Government. That practice is always followed by members of the Australian Labor Party when matters of definite public importance are submitted to the House for discussion. But today,  Mr Speaker,  you announced that the letter indicating that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  desired to raise a matter of definite public importance was dated 28th August, and not until less than an hour before this House met today was any honourable member on this side of the chamber aware that the matter was to be raised today - for the very simple reason that the honourable member for Lilley knew that it had no substance. He wanted to hide it from the light of day and reveal it in the nature of a surprise. Having listened to his speech, I think he would have done better not to write the letter. 
Are not members of the Liberal Party slipping on this issue of the Vietnam Moratorium? On the last occasion the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  raised it. We were on the highest level of right wing politics in the Liberal Party on that occasion; but as we on this side of the House completely demolished his arguments, he has gone underground in the Liberal Party. The honourable member who is the most extreme member and at the furthest point of the Liberal Party politically, and who is on the back benches, has raised this matter in the Parliament today. Who raised it? The honourable member for Lilley - the disinherited  Deputy  Government Whip. He himself said that not even in that lowly position would he bother to serve the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  or the Government. Yet the honourable member for Lilley talks about our Leader and others in our Party. He cannot say in public what he thinks of his own Leader because even the Liberals would expel him. It is interesting also to note that this matter has been raised today by an honourable member who is said to be a member of the National Civic Council, an undercover member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and to be whiteanting the Liberal Party ranks in the interests of another organisation. That is why we see him in Parliament - today as the protagonist of law and order. 
I will never forget the honourable member for Lilley when he was speaking on the off-shore oil leases legislation. He was a man of principle. He said that he would not serve under the Prime Minister in the lowly position of  Deputy  Government Whip. However, when he had to take the jump he found that supporting one's principles had consequences. So in speaking to the off-shore legislation he sacrificed his principles, apologised to the House and is now allowed to raise the matter that we are discussing today, because I believe that he is the only honourable member opposite who believes in it. The honourable member questioned the aims and ideals of those who support the Moratorium. I remind him that 40 United States senators support the aims and ideals of the Moratorium. Are they Communists? Let the honourable member get up and say whether they are. Let us have a look at some of the sponsors of the Moratorium. I think a couple of Liberals will go underground when I mention a few of the names. There are thousands of them. In the list of academics who have sponsored the Moratorium are Professor Charles Birch, Professor Max Deutscher and Professor Makinson of Sydney. There is  Dr F.  V. Newman, a member of the executive of the North Sydney Branch of the Liberal Party. I have been told that he is the campaign director for the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  who sits behind the honourable member who raised this matter today. Does the honourable member for Lilley dare list a member of the executive of the North Sydney Branch of the Liberal Party as a Communist or Communist sympathiser? 
I wish to speak for only a few minutes. I believe that the quorum should be larger than 25. I wonder whether honourable members realise that, with a quorum of 25 and a Ministry of 27, after the Parliament had been adjourned until such and such a date the Ministry could say: 'They have all gone. Let us call the Parliament together. There are 27 of us here'. 
Well, the Ministry of 26, together with a couple of Whips, could call the Parliament together. They could say: Let us put through some legislation, and let us get rid of a few members of the Opposition whom we do not want'. In other words, the Parliament could be called together by the Minister and a couple of hangers-on. 
Let us not forget that the Ministry may be enlarged to 30. There is no saying that the number will stay as it is under this Government or any other. These days there are desperate men in the Liberal Party. That was shown this morning. They might say: 'Let us have a very quick meeting of the Parliament'. 1 merely make the point that, if the quorum is reduced to as low as 25, that will be one of the most dangerous procedures ever introduced in this Parliament, it will bring executive government to the Parliament and anything will be able to be done quite constitutionally. Therefore, we must have a higher number. Even the one-third which has been suggested does not meet my wishes, but I shall go along with that, although I think it should be much larger. 1 point out a real danger that 1 envisage. Supposing that honourable members are held up somewhere by a fog while on their way to Canberra. The Cabinet of 25 which happened to be in Canberra at the time could get together and do anything. lt could expel people, put through legislation, or even give effect to some of the matters raised this morning. This is a real danger. I oppose a quorum of 25 and suggest that it should be a bigger quorum. 
The Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  never ceases to amaze me when, with his pontificial air, he gives the impression in discussions like this that all is being clone for the good of the Opposition and to assist it in its deliberations, that any move he makes in the House is never concerned with the Government's avoiding criticism; it is made only to ensure that Opposition members might have their share of the time and thereby participate in the debates to the fullest possible extent. Of course, nothing is further from the truth than what the Minister has said. The real reason why debate on the Estimates is being curtailed under the procedure laid down is not only to stop criticism from this side of the Parliament but also to protect the rebels on the Government side whom the Government cannot trust. Admittedly, they are somewhat reluctant rebels. They speak quite openly but they vote with the Government. The Minister does not want that to be said. 
The Minister said that the last Labor Government used the guillotine. Let me congratulate him on referring to some things that the Labor Government might have done. I wish he would take our example on many other things. We had a good excuse for using the guillotine. At that time we had an obstreperous Opposition which refused to give law and order to the Parliament. It had to be curtailed somewhat because it sought to defeat the procedures of the House. Only in the interests of justice and of serving the people generally did we introduce the guillotine, and under the most severe provocation. I mention that to remind the Parliament of the situation at that time. I do not blame the Minister for wanting to curtail discussion. He said that 5 1 i hours was reasonable. Let us look at what is to be discussed in those 51  1  hours. We will have half an hour to discuss the expenditure of the Department of Works, which amounts to $68m. In speaking of those estimates an honourable member must be very sure that it is the most valuable speech he has ever made, because for every minute he speaks he will be discussing the expenditure of more than $2m. Even the most golden voiced orator opposite, even the one who occupies that lowly position of  Deputy  Government Whip, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who is interjecting, is not worth $2m an hour. 
Let me refer to the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright).  Everybody here knows that we could speak for 6 months about him, so incompetent is he in his administration. Yet we are allowed 10 minutes to do so. The Minister for Works ought to be eternally grateful to the Leader of the House for letting him escape with only 10 minutes' criticism. Let us take the Leader of the House. I will give honourable members the good oil about him. We have 2 hours to discuss his Department. I could spend 2 hours talking about national service without going into the details of it. It is no wonder that the Minister wants to curtail the discussion on that. Another Minister who is being protected is the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes).  The expenditure for his Department amounts to $104m but we are allowed 2 hours to discuss that. The Minister for External Territories must be the happiest Minister in the Parliament at this time. These are the real reasons why the Leader of the House is curtailing debate, not for the great reasons that he has given, but to protect an incompetent Ministry from criticism which would justifiably be levelled at it from this side of the Parliament. 
We will be allowed  2i  hours to discuss all the ramifications of the postal system. Certainly the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  would want to escape his responsibilities on this score. Postal charges have all been increased and every honourable member knows that the populace is seething with discontent about the impost of postal charges by this Government. If we run right down the full pattern of this proposal we will find that the departments which are subject to the most criticism are the ones on which we have limited time to speak. So I dismiss the pontificial approach of the Leader of the House. I wish he would get off his forum and be honest about it. He should tell us that he is doing this to prevent criticism from members of this side of the Parliament. When he says that 514 hours compares with the time allotted in the past he should remember that here today is a vital, dominating Labor Opposition that seeks and demands time to talk. The Government, in its few remaining months in power, should We criticised so the public will know its shortcomings. That is why I oppose the motion on behalf of the Opposition today. I hope that it will be rejected and that democracy will reign once more, so that the Opposition can give full expression to the views of more than half the people and nol be curtailed by the guil'otine 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether officers of the Professional Engineers' Association have been levied an amount of $10 per member in order to present their case for better wages and conditions before the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission. 
Has this levy been disallowed as an allowable deduction for taxation purposes. 
Have costs incurred by the Employers' Federations been allowed as a deduction. 
If so, will he take the necessary action to ensure that similar treatment by way of a deduction is given to the engineers as was given to the employers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Do certain heads of Departments have the exclusive use of a Commonwealth vehicle on a self-drive arrangement 
If so, what are (a) the names of the officers and their Departments, (b) the conditions under which or the purposes for which the vehicles are used and (c) the reasons why vehicles have been made available. 
Are any officers other than departmental heads given this privilege; if so, what are (a) the names of the officers and their departments, (b) the conditions under which the vehicles are used and (c) the reasons for the vehicles being made available. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1237 which I placed on the notice paper on 4 June 1970. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Why are the names of political parties represented by candidates in Parliamentary elections in Australia not shown on the ballot papers. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Is he able to say in which countries the name of the political parly represented by each candidate in Parliamentary elections is shown on the ballot paper. 
If not, will he obtain this information and make it available to honourable members. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of electors of Grayndler respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution,' page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November, 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards, in the community. 
And, your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Very briefly I want to bring to the notice of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  a matter which I think exemplifies the need to amend the Social Services Act in order to give justice to migrants and Australians generally. Last week in my electorate office I interviewed a migrant who was endeavouring to obtain an age or invalid pension or, as a last resort, a job. I asked him his age and he said through his interpreter that he was 105 years old. Although he did not look that age - quite frankly many of us do not - 1 questioned him further but he insisted that that was his correct age. He stated that he arrived in Australia about 6 years ago and has since been naturalised. Although he is over the age for an invalid pension and naturalised, he is ineligible because he has not resided in Australia for 10 years. Again he is ineligible for an invalid pension because his state of health is evidently much the same as when he arrived, and is not due to any particular reasons since that time. He has also registered for employment and is able and willing to work if suitable employment is available. But to date I understand the Department of Labour and National Service has been unable to place him satisfactorily. He has, however, been granted a special benefit of $10 a week. 
At my suggestion he forwarded to me an application for a pension - age or invalid - and the date of his birth is shown as 29th May 1870 - 100 years and approximately 100 years and 4 months ago. I have since checked this age discrepancy with a relative, and he said that although he could not vouch for it the old gentleman may have panicked when making his application and put his age back a bit because he thought it might debar him from entry to Australia. In any case, the age shown on the pension form is taken from his passport. We now have the position where a migrant over 100 years of age is ineligible for an age pension and will have to live until he is at least 104 years to qualify. The invalid pension may be out of the question as his health is much the same as when he arrived, and he said that he was 94 years of age at that time. Furthermore, although he is able and willing to work, there is nothing available for him. At a time when we are clamouring for migrants it is hardly a good advertisement for the world to know that in Australia under a Liberal government, firstly, a person over 100 years of age cannot get an age pension, secondly, he is ineligible for an invalid pension and, thirdly, no suitable employment is available to him and his only means of sustenance is $10 a week. It is certainly no encouragement to look forward to a long life in the land of affluence and Liberal prosperity. 
I bring this case to the Minister's attention with a request that he take appropriate steps to provide a pension for this migrant. Furthermore, I believe the Minister should adopt the policy of the Labor Party and make welfare benefits available to all Australians and eliminate the system whereby a person more than a century old is ineligible for welfare benefits which, putting it mildly, hardly assists our drive for migrants. Finally, so far as the Department of Immigration is concerned, I believe that its officers should be congratulated if this migrant is the type of citizen selected - healthy, ageless and so confident that he will live long enough to share in the welfare state of liberalism. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the estimated number of migrants in all categories who have arrived in Australia since the commencement of the scheme. 
What is the estimated migrant population in Australia at this date. 
What percentage of the population do they represent. 
asked the Minister for Immigra tion, upon notice: 
What are the names and addresses of agencies covered under Division 330/3/06 - Grants to community agencies involved in integration activities- in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1970-71. 
What amount is expected to be paidin each case. 
asked the Minister for Immi gration, upon notice: 
How many migrants arrived from Great Britain and Northern Ireland in each year since the commencement of the migration scheme. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many migrants have been given assistance towards a second passage since the commencement of the migration scheme. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
On how many occasions in the (a) 1966 and (b) 1969 elections for the House of Representatives were candidates of the (i) Australian Labor Party, (ii) Australian Democratic Labor Party, (iii) Liberal Party of Australia and (iv) Australian Country Party on top of the ballot in each State. 
asked the Minister for Immi  gration, upon notice: 
How many migrants were (a) repatriated and (b) deported in  1969-70. 
How many of these migrants were (a) males; (b) females; and (c) children. 
What were the nationalities in each case. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is the  Mr E.  R. Hudson who recently approached the Prime Minister to prevent foreign control of Australian uranium fields identical with the  Mr E.  R. Hudson who is the  chairman  of Glass Containers Ltd, a company incorporated on 12th June 1969 for the purpose of manufacturing glass containers? If so, is it a fact that Consumers Glass Co. of Canada, through its subsidiary Con glass Australia Pty Ltd and the Bank of Montreal, has a controlling interest in this company? If this is the case, would it be correct to say that  Mr Hudson  believes in Australian ownership of uranium and overseas control of the manufacture of glass containers? Furthermore, has the Prime Minister received a request from  Mr Hudson,  or does he intend to intervene and prevent the overseas control and takeover of Glass Containers Ltd? 
I rise to congratulate the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  on the only sensible statement I have heard him make since he has been in the Parliament - the statement that he wants an aerodrome at Mildura. On behalf of the Opposition and all of those suffering souls in my electorate and the electorates of St George and Barton, I extend to him my best wishes in his efforts to have Mascot aerodrome relocated in Mildura. I thank him for the offer to take the airport there. I only hope that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is sitting at the table, will accede to his request. The sooner he gets his wish the better. I do not know where Mildura is - the only one who seems to know is the honourable member - but it is the kind of place where there ought to be an aerodrome. I sincerely trust that the Minister will recognise the wisdom for once of the honourable member. It is not often that he makes an intelligent contribution to this Parliament. But if he wants an aerodrome let him have it because he is the only person in Australia who does. 
I rise tonight to register my protest, along with the protests of honourable members opposite, at the dilatory approach by the Government to the problem of aircraft noise. In my electorate the aged, the sick and the infirm are suffering day and night because of noise from low flying aircraft. This Government has done nothing at all about the problem. Not only has the Government done nothing but it has extended Mascot airport and added to the woes that befall people who live within the range of the airport. Earlier tonight the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  spoke about the establishment of an international airport at Alice Springs. Before the honourable member for Mallee said a few words I too was inclined to agree that an airport should be established at Alice Springs. However, as long as an airport is out where the honourable member for Mallee thinks big that is okay with me. Consequently, 1 hope that the Minister will accede to what has been suggested by supporters of the Government - that you cannot have aerodromes in the middle of residential areas. Before the honourable member spoke I thought that perhaps such an airport could have been located at Richmond or elsewhere in the electorate of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  Evidently that is beyond the capacity of this Government to carry out. Therefore, I suggest that the Minister should accede to the request of Australian Country Party members for aerodromes to be shifted well outside the range of the cities of Australia. 
This Government set up a committee to investigate where airports should be sited. However, the Government refused the Aircraft Noise Committee an opportunity to go into this problem. The Government lifted the curfew at the suggestion of the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan),  who lives out around the cows in cow country. He would go mad, of course, if aerodromes turned the cows off their milk, but he does not mind if people in the metropolitan area cannot sleep because of planes flying all night. The Government has lifted the curfew at Melbourne and this will happen at Sydney unless some effective action is taken. In my electorate there are aged people suffering in homes because of aircraft noise. Also, schools in my electorate are practically closing down and church sermons are affected. People on night shift are unable to sleep because of aircraft noise. Also, lamps are clattering down in factories and other places. But this Government refuses to give any compensation to these people or to provide any relief. In an endeavour to save 2 Liberal members of this Parliament the Government directed aircraft over my electorate in the last few days of the last election campaign. This was a deliberate effort to save 2 Liberal members, and to cause my defeat in the constituency of Grayndler. The people of Leichhardt, Annandale, Newtown and Marrickville will not forget that foul act by this Government. Never let it be forgotten that not only did the Government fail to dislodge me but it lost the 2 Liberal members into tie bargain. That shows that mean, contemptible tricks do not count even at election time. The point I make is that the problems caused by the Kingsford-Smith aerodrome, located where it is, will get worse for residents if the curfew that has been imposed is lifted. We have Ministers of this Liberal Government saying that they will lift the curfew because Reg Ansett runs the Government. He dominates their thinking and they jump to do what he says. 
The honourable member who is  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee is no different from the rest. When he went to Melbourne he went right outside the reference and Ansett bulldozed him into suggesting the lifting of the curfew on Tullamarine, hoping that ultimately it would be lifted at Kingsford-Smith also. I had a fair amount of respect for the honourable member but it disappeared almost overnight when he took that action. By that action he condemned many people in Sydney to long nights of suffering. That is unforgivable, but the fact that the people are in the electorate of Grayndler makes it most important. I believe, with the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  that most of the improvements that have been done at Kingsford-Smith airport should never have been commenced. It is in the middle of a residential area and if the aeroplane which crashed a couple of years ago because a bird or something blocked the engines had gone another 300 yards it might have caused the deaths of many hundreds of people right within the boundaries of my electorate. It crashed only 300 or 400 yards from a thickly populated residential area. And now we see the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee and the  Chairman  of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise favouring the lifting of the curfew and condemning people in this area to endless hours of suffering. This v/i!! happen bec?'.!'? of 'h? action  of  those people and their disregard for the welfare of the people in that area. 
All this hinges on where the Government intends to put the second airport. I do not say this facetiously, but the central aerodrome for Australia ought to be right in the middle of Alice Springs. If it was there we would have other aeroplanes flying people to the various cities of Australia. This will certainly happen because of jumbo jets and other large planes landing in Australia. The  Chairman  of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise knows that the Government will phase out two-thirds of my electorate as well as that of the honourable member for Sydney, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and it will let aeroplanes fly in while people are forced to go right out of the city. This was never meant to be. The fact that some people want to travel by aircraft is no reason to destroy residential areas. I wonder whether honourable members realise that Newington College in the middle of my electorate - one of the greatest colleges in Australia - is below these aircraft night paths. It will ultimately have to be completely removed from where it is; it will not be able to function because of aircraft noise. That brings me back to the point that these aerodromes must be a long way out and that is why tonight I offer congratulations to the honourable member for Mallee. He is one of the few people who wants an aerodrome. I hope he gets it. He deserves it because he will not be around this Parliament long after he does. 
I suggest to the honourable member for Mitchell that perhaps a major aerodrome will be suitable for his electorate. That might offend my honourable friend from Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  because they would then fly over his area. That is one thing, but let us be quite honest. These aerodromes have to be well away from Mascot and the metropolitan area. Perhaps somewhere near the Blue Mountains would be appropriate if Mildura or some other place is not available. I cannot understand any Minister not giving effect to a request from a member of his own Party for an aerodrome. I want to curtail my speech on this matter, but this is of tremendous importance to me. In areas such as Leichhardt, Marrickville, Newtown and Annandale, or any of those places where aircraft fly overhead, even speeches like mine are interrupted. We have school teachers unable to continue their classes, ministers unable to speak to their congregations, people in hospital and women expecting babies who are unable! to sleep and who are all disturbed by this tremendous noise overhead. That is why today the Minister wants to give much better than his usual long winded explanation to this Parliament. 
I hope that he accepts the offer of the honourable member for Mallee and takes Mildura. It is the only offer that has been made and he ought to accept it. If that is not acceptable it should be offered to the honourable member for Chifley. Perhaps he might like an aerodrome. But if he does not perhaps the honourable member for Mitchell would. But whatever the Minister says justice must be done and an area outside the metropolitan area must be accepted as the place for an aerodrome. Let us hope that the Minister appreciates the wisdom shown in the debate tonight and gives effect to the suggestions that have been made. But for my part, I have survived the efforts of the Government to save two Liberal members from defeat and I never want to go through it again. I hope that the Minister at the next election will not stoop to the contemptible tactics adopted by this Government in the past and make people in my district suffer because it wanted to save some Liberal members from defeat. If they had been good members I would not have minded but they were not so hot at any stage. But the fact of the matter is that that is what was done. I hope it will not occur again and I hope the Minister will accept the offer of the honourable member for Mallee and place the aerodrome at Mildura. 
by leave-  Mr Speaker,  before the business of the House commences I would like to refer to the suspension of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Might I prevail upon your good graces in respect of this matter? You might recall that the honourable member for Dawson made a remark for which he was subsequently expelled from the House because it was understood that he had not withdrawn it. I have the Hansard copy of this morning's proceedings which shows that in the course of those proceedings you said: 
Order! The honourable member for Dawson will withdraw the remark. 

 Dr Patterson said: I withdraw it and say that it is an untruth. 
You said: 
Order! The honourable member for Dawson will withdraw the remark unreservedly. 
The honourable member for Dawson did not say any more. I understand he was under the impression that he had withdrawn the remark when he said it was an untruth and 'untruth' is not an unparliamentary word. In those circumstances I wonder whether, if the honourable member for Dawson came back into the House and tendered his apology for what has taken place, consideration could be given to his readmittance 
I second the amendment. 
In my long experience in this Parliament the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  is the only  speaker  I have seen display nervousness before I started my speech.I may tell a few jokes today and he will be the butt of them. I do hope he enjoys them. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  certainly has a weird collection of supporters. Let us look at the honourable member for La Trobe. He criticised statements made in regard to the army service of a man convicted of murder following national service. The man who made those statements was a judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. Does the honourable member say the judge should be hauled before a royal commission simply because he differs with a fanatic like the honourable member for La Trobe? Of course he should not. 
Let us look at it another way. When I look at the honourable member for La Trobe I would be inclined to take a bit of notice of him but for the fact that I read about him in the newspapers now and again. Let me read the following article in the 'Australian' of 22nd April 1970: 
The Liberal Party was not inspiring young people in Australia,  Mr R.  Winnel, a 22-year-old party branch  president,  said yesterday. 
People like Jess  (Mr J. D. Jess, the Victorian MHR)  can rave on about the red bogey, but young people will not swallow it,' said  Mr Winnel. 
And neither will the older people. Let us hear what the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  thinks of the honourable member for La Trobe. He is quoted as saying this in the 'Australian' on 6th January 1970: 

 Mr Jess sees himself as a knight in shining armour doing his bit, but not being able to substantiate any allegations. 
When you look at it that is a wise statement from that intelligent Minister for the Navy. After all, who are we to take notice of the men who know him or those of us who put up with his ravings here? The men who know him understand him. Let us hear him on all those protesters and all these things. In the 'Herald' on 20th June 1968 the following article appears: 
Protesters 'not wanted in the Army.' 
A man should not have been forced into the Army when he had no intention of obeying orders,  Mr Jess,  MHR, said today. 
Let us put it in round figures. The honourable member spent too much trouble looking at the lovely redhead out the front the other day to pay due attention to a debate of this nature. 
Let us look at the other weird supporter of the Government on this motion. Shortly before the election of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to that office the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  said: 
Not even in the lowly position of. Deputy Whip will I serve under this Prime Minister. I have no confidence in bim. 
Today who is supporting the Prime Minister? It is the greatest fanatic in the nation - the person who would not serve under him in the office of Deputy Whip. 
The Leader of the Opposition should treat the motion with the contempt it deserves. What has he done? He has given advice to people who are now being conscripted under this Government for a war in which this nation should never have been engaged. He has given a lead to young men who are expected to die in the paddy fields of Vietnam in a war that this Government put on for dollars instead of for the salvation of Australia. The real reason why we are in Vietnam is that we are all the way with LBJ. The Government wanted trade and commerce and all these things, and men are dying there for them. Boys are being conscripted at a time when the Government knows our security is not in  danger and when Americans walk past them in thousands on their way home leaving Australians to die and fight their battle. Good luck to the Leader of the Opposition for giving advice on this question. As honourable members opposite know, it is sound advice. They know also that the CMF offers no solution to the problem of service in Vietnam. Men who go into it are liable for service there. There is no law to say they will not. So that type of argument cannot be put up. 
Anyone would think that members ot the Labor Party were the only ones who had anything to say about law and order and obeying the law of the country. I am pleased that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McCwen)  is in the chamber because he was here during the time of the great white father.  Sir Robert  Menzies - the founder of the Liberal Party;the man who brought most of the honourable member's opposite into this Parliament. But now he has gone and they will very shortly follow him. This is what the Leader of the Opposition, as  Sir Robert  Menzies then was, had to say when speaking on the Banking Bill on 23rd October 1947: 
It. therefore, becomes the duly of  His  Majesty's Opposition, and every member of it, not merely to oppose this measure in Parliament with all the force of the arguments at their command, but also to exhaust every effort to rouse the people outside the Parliament to a tremendous defence of their own liberties and rights. If this means, as of course it does mean, a division of the people at a time like this, and in the circumstances which will give rise to bitterness and weaken the national effort, the sin will rest grievously upon the heads of Ministers and nobody else. 
Those words outline this Government's responsibility today in regard to Vietnam. The Government has divided the nation.  Sir Robert  Menzies in 1947 stimulated the whole country, as we all know, on the banking Bills. He was joined by members of the Country Party. On every corner, on every doorstep, people were rising against certain legislation, irrespective of the law or the will of the people as expressed by their elected representatives. Let us now examine the views of the Country Party. The late  Sir Earle  Page, founder of the Country Party, when speaking on the Banking Bill, was reported in the 'Daily Telegraph' on 30th October 1947 as saying: 
The Bank Bill was the most immoral product . . . We shall fight this Communistic ramp against individual freedom by every means in our power - political, legal, constitutional and physical. 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">These were the words of the then Leader of the Country Party. He was endeavouring to rouse the people outside the Parliament. In days gone by they took it a step further; they formed their own army in the New Guard. If the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  was not a member of it, at least he was sympathetic with it. So it can be seen that this is the back- groundtothethinkingofthesepeople. 
Let us have a look at the Government that says it will maintain law and order and which criticises the Leader of the Opposition for this judgment. The other day the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  asked a question in this Parliament. He wanted to know what members of the Ministry had complied with the law by stating the amount they had spent in their election campaigns, as is required by the provisions of the Electoral Act. Failure to comply with the law is subject to penalty. We find that 9 members of the Ministry have not complied with that provision of the Act. Included amongst those 9 is the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  the man who is now putting men into gaol at this stage. Even he has not complied with the law. We find also that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  who rounds people up like cattle to put them into gaol, has not complied with the law. Other members of the Ministry who have not fulfilled this requirement are the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme),  the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  the Minister for Social Services, the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  - a collection of law breakers impressing law and order on the community. Did honourable members ever hear anything worse? Now, because the Government is in disarray, it is hammering at the Opposition on this issue. 
Let us look at this old story of the Liberal Party in relation to flags. It is guilt by association. Honourable members will remember that a few years ago if a soldier marched on Anzac Day with a Communist alongside him the Liberals would designate him a Communist. I attended the Moratorium demonstration in front of this House the other day. I was interested to see how many members of the Liberal Party, their staffs and supporters turned up. Amongst other things, I was interested also in the success of the Moratorium. I have here a photograph of the Leader of the Opposition.  Mr Whitlam,  apparently speaking to one of my colleagues. I. also see a rather good picture of myself standing on the other side of the road, but I was a long way from where  Mr Whitlam  was standing. This is the photograph that the honourable member for La Trobe produced. As I stood there someone passed carrying a flag, which I was told was the Vietcong flag. I decided to follow to see who was carrying the Vietcong flag. I was surprised to see that he was an intelligent, well dressed, nice, smart type of chap. So I said to someone standing near me: 'Who would that be?' He said: 'He is a well known member of the Liberal Party. He is so excited and enthusiastic about it that he got carried away. But we hope he will not do himself any harm although it might help to damage the Party.' These are the people who tell us that everybody associated with it today is affiliated with the Labor Party or something else. 
Do honourable members opposite mean to say that if that flag had been raised in Civic Centre the Leader of the Opposition should have gone somewhere else? Of course, he should not. I have another picture here with all kinds of people in h. Here is one of the Leader of the Opposition speaking outside Parliament House - these are the pictures that the Government says it will use - and right in the front row is a gentleman wearing a clerical collar. Do they suggest that he is a Communist, an undercover person or anything of that nature? Does the honourable member for La Trobe think so? 
I do not know who he is, but he looks like one of my faith and he looks a very intelligent type. If we pick out some other pictures taken at the front of Parliament House what do we see? The absurdity of the Government's allegation is shown by the fact that in these pictures which were taken - quite wrongly by the News and Information Bureau for political purposes - we find the personal assistant to the Prime Minister,  Mr W.  Arthur, shown with demonstrators carrying placards saying: 'Abolish conscription'; 'Withdraw all troops now'; 'Withdraw support for the Saigon regime'. In another picture the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  is shown with  Mr Arthur  in the same group of demonstrators. If the Vietcong flag had been carried past them at a given lime, under the Government's regulations they ought to be doing time because they are Vietcong spies or something to that effect. This is the old story of guilt by association again. I have here a picture of the Leader of the Opposition with the secretary to one of the most prominent Government members. I know that the Vietcong flag passed by him as he stood there. Is the Minister going to sack him? If Labor men are guilty because a flag happens to be in the same city as they are, why should the Liberal Party escape its responsibilities in this matter? 
I say to the honourable member for La Trobe that this kind of proof is stupidity of the highest calibre. If men are to be condemned for this type of thing, the sooner we get rid of security police and the Government that tolerates this conduct at demonstrations, the better it will be for democracy in this country. The Liberals have a lot to say about Labor Party associations and they produce photographs. Let me produce one or two others for their benefit. I saw the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on television the other night. I have here a copy of the Canberra Times' of 8th November 1967 which shows a picture of the Soviet Ambassador to Australia,  Mr N.  Tarakamov, and the charming Minister for Defence with their glasses tilted, full of vodka or rich red wine, toasting the 50th anniversary of the Bolshevik revolution. The article says: 

 Mr Fraser was among guests who attended a lunchtime reception at the Russian Embassy yesterday. 
There they were, toasting the revolution: Good luck to the future. Away with the slaves to the salt mines of Siberia.' Over a vodka or a rich red wine all differences between Liberalism and Communism were buried. If the people who were 100 or 200 yards from the Leader of the Opposition contaminated him with the Vietcong flag, it is time for the internment camp for the Minister for Defence. So let us have no more of this rot about guilt by association. 
Let us go into a few other things. We do not hear any more about the occasion when a Soviet diplomat addressed the Woden Valley Branch of the Liberal Party. What did that make members of that branch? What would have happened if he had gone to a Labor Branch? Would we not have seen the successor to W. C. Wentworth - in repose here at the present time - in uproar? Of course  we  would. These are the things they do. Let us have a look at the Country Party. I wonder whether, when the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  signed the wheat agreement in Peking, the hammer and sickle was hauled down. Or did he sit under it and enjoy what was going to come to the Country Party? When the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  sat in the Kremlin in Moscow recently and talked glibly about the future of trade with that country, did he sit under the red flag or did it become respectable? Surely he would not sit under a red flag. I know he was looking for Communist gold but at the same time is it not disreputable to have a read flag flying over his head - a hammer and sickle? When the Government's representatives sit in Peking now to negotiate agreements are they contaminated when the red flag goes up? Of course they are not, because the Country Party does not care what it does as long as it trades. Principles go overboard as long as these things can happen to their Party and to those around them. So let us have no more of this humbug of guilt by association. We cannot help who walks around with any kind of flag. To say that some people are allied with a particular philosophy because they are seen at a demonstration at which some type of flag is being carried is probably just as silly as saying that the red flag should be pulled down in the Kremlin and other places. These things do not happen. 
The argument that has been brought forward by honourable members opposite will not hold water. This debate has been forced on the Government by some fanatics who realise that there is no substance in the charges that have been made. 1 ask honourable members opposite who are constantly accusing the Labor Party of being allied with Communism and the Vietcong why it is that this Government trades with all these people. If the Vietcong flag is such a shameful thing - and honourable members opposite think it is - why does the Government sell wheat to China which in many cases, as honourable members opposite know, is going to the Vietcong? Why does the member for Rhodesia tolerate it? Why do we not hear the honourable member for La Trobe in a violent, fanatical outburst condemning these things if they are se wrOn:? It is because he knows that a lot of the wheat that Australia sells to China is going to feed the Vietcong and others. 
But principles do not matter when Government supporters are attacking the Labor Parry and its Leader. The present Leader of the Opposition is no different from those who have gone before him. Until the day he died  Mr Chifley  was called a Communist in this Parliament by some members opposite. The only time anything good is said about a Labor Party Leader is when he is dead. That is when the Press tells the nation what a wonderful leader it has lost. It is no different today. We on this side of the House know that this motion has been brought up in order that honourable members opposite may attempt to destroy a person whom they know will be the next Prime Minister of this country. It is the fact that this is imminent that is making them so desperate today. They realise at long last, even on issues like this, that if members of the Government do not hang together they will hang separately. That is beyond doubt and that is the reason this is happening today. 
I would like the Minister for Trade to tell us whether he thinks he should continue to go to Russia and other Communist countries when his Party reacts so violently to those people in the community who support a cause with which he does not agree politically? Does he think he should continue to sign trade agreements with the Soviet bloc when his Party holds this point of view? We on this side think  we  should trade with everybody, but on the other side of the Parliament members condemn the people with whom they trade and condemn us on this side by implying that we are allied with those people. At the same time they seek to get all the monetary rewards they possibly can. I mention these matters in order that the honourable member for La Trobe may learn well that greater men than he in this Parliament have made accusations about the affiliations of other honourable members and later have had to apologise. He goes very close to that from time to time. lt has been said that the Leader of the Opposition is inciting mutiny. Of course be is not. Anyhow, if he were, what would this Government do about it? Men at Garden Island and members of the Royal Australian Air Force mutinied recently, but nobody has been hanged from the yardarm. There is no substance in the charge made by honourable members opposite, and they know it. I do not wish to say more on this issue at this stage. I believe the Government stands condemned for its guilt by association conduct and for its taking of photographs which have been brought into this Parliament by fanatics in order to bolster up a dying administration. I hope that the Leader of the Opposition and other members on this side of the Parliament will speak again against the most infamous war of our time, that is, the war in Vietnam. If the Leader of the Opposition saves only 1 life by his actions, he will have made a magnificent contribution to the welfare of this country. We on this side of the Parliament stand firmly behind him in his campaign to end conscription and to make sure that boys will not be dragged from their homes to fight for a cause which has no connection with this country. I hope that when honourable members opposite are again taking photographs they will be certain to photograph also some of the boys who are coming back from the Vietnam war and will remember those who do not come back. The Government is responsible for the disunity that exists in the community because of the Vietnam war, from which our troops should be withdrawn immediately. 1 commend the Leader of the Opposition on the attitude he has taken. I hope we will have no more motions of this kind. They are of no credit to the Government. 
asked the Minister for Immi  gration, upon notice: 
Has any estimate ever been made by his Department of the total cost to Australia for each migrant since the commencement of the scheme. 
If so, what is the estimate. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Out of the amount pf $457,844 expended in 1969-70 under Division 330/4/08 (Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1970-71, page 48) how many Australians were assisted. 
What are the details of this expenditure. 
asked the Minister for Immi  gration, upon notice: (1)Whatwasthe total cost  for  the year 1969- 70 of maintaining each overseas office of his Department. 
What is the estimated cost fur the vear 
1970- 71. 
What is the total number of stall in each office. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How may labrador dogs died whilst on service in Vietnam up to 30 June 1969. 
What were the causes of death in each case. 
Before I say a few words in reply to the fanatical speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  let me remind him that the subject under discussion in the Parliament is that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  no longer has the confidence of this House in that he allowed a fake document to be presented to the Parliament. I think this is the most grievious charge that can be levelled against any member of a parliamentary institution. Today as I listened to the fanatical outbursts of the old reformed rebel of days gone by my mind went back to when he chased the Reds from one end of Australia to the other. The Minister was such a fanatic in the early years of the war that he blamed the Rhode Island Reds for the shortage of eggs in the fowlyard. But the Minister did not tell us today that, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on one occasion, he had ticket No. 116 in the Port Kembla Branch of the Communist Party and that he was an underground card carrying Communist when he presented prizes at a Wollongong Communist Party athletic meeting. 
Minister has been misrepresented he must raise the matter at the conclusion of the honourable member's speech. 
When the attention of the  Speaker  is drawn to words used, he shall determine whether or not they are offensive or disorderly. " 
Bui I would submit that standing order 76 should be read in conjunction with standing order 78. That is to say, all imputations or improper motives and all personal reflections on members shall be considered highly disorderly. I would submit that there are 2 tests of that: There is a subjective test of the member himself and there is also the objective test of the Chair and the House itself may enjoin. 
I refer to the point of order,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  What I said was that the honourable member for Hindmarsh in this Parliament not long ago said that the Minister for Social Services had ticket No. 116 in the Port Kembla branch as an underground card carrying Communist when he presented prizes to the Wollongong Communist athletic meeting. At that time the Minister for Social Services did not ask for any withdrawal whatever and ( believed that I was repeating a truth. I am sorry I mentioned it in view of the time taken up, and I withdraw what I said. The Minister for Social Services naturally had to speak for the Prime Minister today as he did. When all is said and done the Prime Minister is the only one who was silly enough to ever put him in a ministry and if this motion is carried the Minister for Social Services will be back on the back bench again. But this does not hide the fact that the Minister for Social Services, despite his tirade, told untruths and falsehoods to the Parliament today because he said-- 
I withdraw them only because I desire to get on with my speech. If the Minister is so sensitive let him not pour out his filth in this Parliament from time to time. Let him remember that when you dish it out you have to expect to take it.. The Minister objects but members from his side of the Parliament have defamed and maligned decent men inside and out side the Parliament. When 1 rise to reply to them, like a dingo you run for cover and demand that what 1 say be withdrawn. 
Very well. 
 I put this to the Minister for Social Services: He is on record as saying that he saw the Leader of the Opposition speaking under a Vietcong flag outside Parliament House at a demonstration the other day. I show to the Minister the photograph of the Leader of the Opposition speaking outside Parliament House at the demonstration. This photograph was tabled in the House by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and there is no flag within 100 miles of the Leader of the Opposition on that occasion. That is why I say to you,  Mr Minister,  that you lied to the Parliament today. 
 Mr Speaker,  I respect- 
I withdraw the remark, but I remind the Leader of the House also that if members are so sensitive on the Government side they should not make such filthy speeches as they have made against members on- this side of the Parliament. I repeat for him and for other members opposite that they should not hand it out if they are not prepared to take it. The Prime Minister is under challenge in the Parliament today for having produced fake photographs in the Parliament and for having arranged for them to be faked. They are charged with trying to defame the Leader of the Opposition by saying that he spoke under a Vietcong flag and of conveying that impression to the Australian public. 

 Mr Speaker I am asked to withdraw statements when I say that they have told lies, but this falsehood is repeated again and again in Goebbels-like fashion by everybody opposite from the Prime Minister to the Minister for Social Services. We do not ask them to withdraw these statements because we know they are untrue, but we want the public to know the type of people who are making them. When the Minister for Social Services was interviewed on 'This Day Tonight' on 21st September he was asked whether what people were reading about in the newspapers was in any way reminiscent of or related to police brutality. The Minister said: 
No, very much the opposite. What happened was that Gough Whitlam was speaking under a Vietcong flag and photographs have been taken and Labor supporters were very annoyed that this was going an record. 
That the Minister knows to be a deliberate untruth because of the photograph that 1 have in my hand. How did the Minister know that the photographs had been taken? These events took place after question time and before the first sitting day of the next Parliament. In other words the photographer was planted and instructed by the Prime Minister and those who support him to take photographs and fake a picture to try to destroy the next Prime Minister of this country. That is the fact of the matter. 
Let us pin it down on this issue. The Prime Minister tries to escape the charge we have laid against him today, if he had any self-respect he would resign without this motion being pressed to a vote. I draw the attention of honourable members to what the Prime Minister said at the annual Convention of the New South Wales Branch of the Liberal Party in Sydney on 19th September. I ask honourable members to consider this in the light of the photographs that have been presented to the Parliament. He said: 
It is all very well for the Leader of the Opposition to make soothing noises as to what is going on but just yesterday we saw him speaking to a crowd, an orderly crowd, but a crowd that had Vietcong flags flying above them and above his head as be spoke. 
That is a deliberate falsehood,  Mr Speaker,  no matter who made it. It was made by the Prime Minister at a Liberal Party Convention. There is an answer to that untruth - the photograph of the Leader of the Opposition speaking. How can that be said to be true? The Minister for Social Services, who sat down and was so sensitive after making contemptible statements like he did today, crawls around and says: '1 want it withdrawn. I do not tell untruths. I just handle the truth very carelessly.' In today's Age' we find the following report: 
The situation looked bad for  Mr Whitlam  . . . lt has now been announced that the photograph tabled in Parliament as evidence that  Mr Whitlam  was standing under the offending flag (which he certainly was not) was taken on the instruction of  Mr Gorton.  More than that, it was taken by the Australian News and Information Bureau, a Government publicity organisation with a charter which aims mainly at publicising Australia favourably overseas  and providing helpful information to Government departments. 
Why was the photograph taken? lt was taken only to try to trap or frame the Leader of the Opposition, because the police were filming this at the same time for the record. They film everything. They even film old age pensioners, so why would they not be at a Moratorium demonstration? This destroys completely the Prime Minister's argument that there had to be a record of what was going on. The fact of the matter is that it was a fake and a put-up and the Prime Minister today stands condemned in this Parliament as a presenter of faked photographs in an endeavour to destroy his opposition. Do not think that we are the only ones who distrust him. In the 'Courier-Mail' under the heading 'State Liberals Gorton Vote "On the Record" ',  the  following appeared: 
The executive directed its  President (Mr Eric Robinson)  to express 'dissatsifaction,  disapproval and distrust' of  Mr Gorton's  leadership. 
Why should it not distrust him? I suppose he has faked everything in his policy and that is how he got into office. This is why today in the Parliament we are lining this up where it ought to be. In the 'Canberra Times' of 29th September is a photograph showing how the photograph that was produced in this Parliament was faked. A part of it was blocked out as shown and anybody who was out the front of Parliament house on that occasion knows that the Vietcong flag was 100 yards away from the Leader of the Opposition. In the paper is a picture of the faked photograph. Government officers were instructed by the Prime Minister to frame the Leader of the Opposition at all costs. The Government felt it must destroy him, at Government expense with taxpayers' money. These photographs have been faked in an endeavour to destroy him. It is bad enough for this to be done, but when senior Ministers support that kind of conduct the whole Government ought to be thrown out, lock stock and barrel. 
What has been faked under this Government? Has the Budget been faked? What else has been faked? We do not know what has been faked, but under the present Government this is the situation at the present time. Members opposite attach much significance to Vietcong flags and that kind of thing. The Liberal Party tars us with one brush and then claims that it is lily white. During the May Moratorium Campaign a pamphlet was distributed by the Nazi Party of Australia. It states: 
Attention! Fellow Australians 
Do you believe in a White Australia, strong, free and united? 
Do you believe that communist-inspired mobs should not be permitted to roam our streets, insulting eur righting men and waving enemy flags? 
Do you believe that the Vietnam war should be won by determined action, like sending anticommunist forces into North Vietnam to give the Reds a dose of their own medicine, and not be allowed to drag  on  year after year while our young men are being killed and wounded? 
If the answer is yes, then join or support the National Socialist Party of Australia. 
I say to the Minister for Social Services that that is the same policy which is followed by the Liberal Party. If it is good enough for honourable members opposite to say that because a Vietcong flag is waved within 2 miles of the Leader of the Opposition he supports that type of conduct, it is good enough for me to label all Government supporters as Nazis because of the fact that they are supporting Nazi policy from one end of Australia to the other. I raise that argument to show the stupidity and falsity of what honourable members opposite are endeavouring to do because a flag has been presented. It is all very well for the Prime Minister to say that he wants to get evidence of what is going on, but is he entitled to take records of meetings and then fake them? Is he entitled to try to frame men? Why, men are serving life sentences in gaol for framing people. 
Forgery and corruption are not accepted in any standard of society. Here in the National Parliament, which is the greatest forum in the nation, the Prime Minister is under challenge as being a faker, a forger. What more grievous charge could be levelled against the Prime Minister of the country? Far from defending the charge, honourable members opposite have spoken about everything but what could be termed the issue under discussion. The indictment which has been levelled by the Opposition is one of the most damning that has been levelled against the Prime Minister of any country. The Prime Minister will not be excused by his flippant dismissal of the charge, which is substantiated in these photographs, of having endeavoured to destroy his opposition by faking, forging and presenting false documents to the Parliament. Every Minister who speaks on this matter - whether he speaks in this Parliament or outside it - repeats the allegation that the Leader of the Opposition spoke under a Vietcong flag. That, of course, is a damnable falsehood, and everyone knows it, because the photograph shows the contrary to be so. But if the allegation is made often enough, like the old Goebbels theory, somebody will believe it. The Liberal Party hopes that it will be able to use it at election time and that some people will swallow the bait, as it were. That is why today in this Parliament we have challenged the Prime Minister to stand and substantiate the allegation about the flag. 
The Prime Minister says, too, that he looked from his window and saw the Leader of the Opposition speaking under a Vietcong flag. The photograph I have in my hand is the only photograph in which the Leader of the Opposition can be seen speaking. So just where does the veracity and integrity of the Prime Minister stand? The Prime Minister said that he looked from the window of his office and saw the Leader of the Opposition speaking under a Vietcong flag. This photograph shows that there is no flag within miles of the Leader of the Opposition. But in addition, the Prime Minister said that he got the Australian News and Information Bureau to film the demonstration because he wanted a record of it. Why did he do that when the police were already filming the event? There is one simple point that the Prime Minister has not answered, and it utterly disproves his statement as to his alleged reason for getting the News and Information Bureau to take photographs - that is, that the direction was given to this organisation only when the Moratorium marchers had actually assembled outside Parliament House. We see the Prime Minister of Australia perched ready to swoop, to snatch at straws, as it were, in an endeavour to destroy his opposition. 
What have been presented to this Parliament are faked photographs of an event that took place outside Parliament House. The Prime Minister wants to defend this action in this Parliament, if he possibly can, but we do not think that is possible. He stands condemned in the eyes of the Australian people for having presented documents that are false and forged. He also stands condemned for having used a government instrumentality in an endeavour to get by hook or by crook, evidence which he thought could be used against his opposition. We have heard the Minister for Social Services ranting and raving about Reds and all these kinds of things. Fancy the Liberal Party telling the Labor Party to look at what is happening to it internally. The rabble that sit opposite fight so often, and this is the only occasion on which we have seen them unite on anything since this Parliament met after the last election. They have to stick together on this issue because the integrity of the man who keeps a lot of them, like the Minister for Social Services, in the Ministry, is under challenge, and whether he is right or wrong he must be defended along Party lines. 
For my part I endorse the motion that has been moved from this side of the House. The Leader of the Opposition is completely vindicated. But whether this motion is carried or not, the Prime Minister is condemned in the eyes of the Australian people as being a faker, a forger and one who will stoop to any lengths to destroy his opposition in this Parliament. 
The proposed expenditure for the Department of Immigration for the coming, year is estimated at $71,274,000. The importance and wide ramifications of the activities of the Department provide wide scope for discussion. There are many matters that the Opposition would like to debate. For instance, we are somewhat concerned at he failure of the Governmentto provide visas for overseas visitors, at the refusal of naturalisation and many other allied matters. Despite our interest and concern with these subjects the 2 hours allotted does not present us with the opportunity to debate them fully. Consequently our debate on this important section of Government policy and administration is restricted. 
During July the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  announced a series of new studies and investigations which the Government is initiating in the migration programme. I consider it to be appropriate that 1 should devote my time to this proposal as my time is very strictly limited. At the outset I should like to give a brief survey of the history of the Australian immigration programme. I do not think it would be out of place. The Minister described the programme in his publication Immigration in the Seventies' in these words: 
Twenty-five years ago - in 1945 - Australia revived, expanded and refined its traditional policy of assisted migration into the most ambitious venture of its type in our history. 
Perhaps I could go further and say that our immigration programme ranks as one of the great achievements of our time and is acknowledged as such by people of all shades of politics and thought in Australia today. The first Minister for Immigration was the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  who was sworn in on 1 3 th July 1945 during the time of the Chifley Government. The new Department of Immigration, according to a document issued by the first Minister at a later date, commenced with about 24 officers, 6 stationed in Canberra, 6 more in Melbourne and about 12 located in London, engaged almost exclusively in making arrangements for the British wives and children of Australian servicemen to come to Australia. Now, after that small commencement, in 1970 on the occasion of the silver anniversary of the commencement of this scheme by a Labor government, the following information as to its growth makes really remarkable reading: On 30th August 1970 the staff in Australia was 1,520 and overseas 672. The records available show that the total number of regional offices on 31st December 1946 was 7 in Australia and 1 in London. Today the total number of regional offices in Australia is 10 and overseas 45. Those figures indicate a remarkable growth in the Department, as I shall further show. 
On 17 th September 1970, in answer to a question I had directed to him the Minister for Immigration advised me that arrivals under the United Kingdom assisted passage scheme increased from 1,960 for the January-June period in 1947 to 69,035 in 1969-70. I understand that the estimated figure for 1970-71 is a little in excess of that figure or at least near it. He further advised me that the number of permanent and long term arrivals for residence of one year or longer in Australia between October 1945 and June 1970 was 3,385,676, of whom is is estimated some 2,696,000 were migrants. The Minister further stated that the estimated number of persons born overseas who were resident in Australia at 30th June 1970 was 2,500,000, representing 20 per cent of the total papulation.It is also estimated that there are some 1,200.000 children bom in Australia to one or both migrant parents. Since the commencement of the migration scheme our population has increased from approximately 71/2 million to just on 121/4 million. 
These figures indicate amongst other things a major contribution to our population by migration, which surely ranks amongst one of the greatest mass movements of people in modern times. To those who have made it possible - the first Minister, his successors, the successive govern ments, the departmental officials, churches, trade unions, employers and voluntary organisations - Australia owes a great debt of gratitude. Not only in people has it made its contribution, but as the Minister said recently: 
In the past 25 years it has made a major impact on Australia in terms  of  economic growth and in the social and cultural diversification  of  the Australian community. 
I think few people will disagree with those sentiments and that summary of the programme. But now I ask, as the Minister has asked recently: What of the future? 
Recently the Minister announced the terms of a far reaching inquiry into all the ramifications of the immigration programme not, as he said, to curtail migration but rather, as he put it, to study certain aspects and allied matters that he mentioned to me in a letter which was just an endorsement of what he had already put out publicly. He said: 
The measures which I announced on 26th July are: 
A comprehensive review of the benefits and cost to Australia of immigration conducted on traditional patterns. 
Investigations into desirable future levels and distribution of population for Australia, 

 Major surveys, covering up to 10,000 people, of migrant1!' experiences during their first few years here. 
The appointment of authorities on urbanisation and environment as consultants on the immigration programme, 
Closer liaison and mutual exchanges with Canadian migration authorities. 
As will be seen, the matters for inquiry and investigation are somewhat comprehensive. The Lahor Party does not oppose an inquiry or investigation of the scheme. Rather do we say at this point of time 25 years after the commencement of the scheme, and having in mind its magnitude, the nationalities involved and the problems occasioned by the influx of new people, it is not unreasonable to take stock, as it were, of the situation and to plan for the immediate years ahead. If anything, the inquiry is probably overdue. lt should be understood clearly that the Labor Party supports migration. I shall quote our policy for the benefit of the Committee and make it quite clear. It is as follows: 
Convinced that increased population is vitalto the future development of Australia, the Australian Labor Party will support and uphold a vigorous and expanding immigration programme administered with sympathy, understanding and tolerance. 
The basis of such policy will be - 
Australia's national and economic security. 
The welfare and integration of all its citizens. 
The preservation of our democratic system and balanced development of our nation. 
The avoidance of the difficult social and economic problems which may follow from an influx of peoples having different standards of living, traditions and cultures. 
The children and spouses of Australian citizens to bc entitled to Australian citizenship. 
I feel that 1 should place that on record in order that the position of the Labor Party will not be misunderstood. 
In recent times criticism has been made by some sections of the community of the demands of immigration on our economic capacity. This is not an unusual pattern because similar criticism was offered by critics of sustained immigration as long as a century ago. lt is probably to be expected. There is an inclination to blame migrants for the shortage of housing, the demands on education, overcrowding of the cities and a number of other problems. There is no doubt that to an extent this may be true. At the same time it is wrong to blamethe migrants for all these problems. They may have added to them, but after all they are not solely responsible. Whatever difficulties may have been created would on balance, I suggest, be offset by the benefits and the growth that they have brought to Australia. They have provided a large home consumption market, increased our spending, added to our culture and our gross national product, and in many and varying ways they have changed and advanced our way of life. 
The Minister in his publication 'Immigration in the Seventies' quoted interesting figures on the migrant contribution to our economic welfare which should be studied by all people. If any blame is to be attached to the shortages and the overcrowding that exists, it is not the migrant who is responsible but it is more the fault of the Liberal-Country Party Government. Where the Labor Party differs from the Government is that we say that, having brought migrants to Australia in their thousands, we have a responsibility to provide adequate finance to the State and local government authorities for education, housing, hospitals, and development. This unfortunately has not been the case. State governments, starved of money by the Commonwealth, were left with the responsibility of educating migrants, English and non-English, and the responsibility of providing hospitals, homes, etc. for them. The short-sighted view taken by the Government was that the States could look after them because the returns they would get from the new citizens would make up the leeway on the financial front. This was short-sighted and wrong, and the Labor Parly does not approve of it. Therefore let. me make it quite clear that the Labor Party, in accordance with its policy and the ideals which commenced this scheme, supports migration. This docs not hide the fact that we believe the scheme should be reviewed from time to time. It may be necessary to set different targets, different types of migrants, and maybe to revise the approach to the accepted goals of the past in regard to numbers, types, educational and trade qualifications and matters of this nature. 
This brings me to the basis of the inquiry proposed by the Minister. Time does not permit me to deal with it in detail. 1 have outlined the basis of the inquiry as announced by the Minister.It is safe to say, however, that the objective and ramifications of the inquiry are very comprehensive, but one significant factor disturbs the Opposition: Who is to conduct the investigation? The Minister has not stated any individual names except those appointed to certain immigration committees. He also stated that the Australian National University was to be consulted. It would appear that other than this it will be a survey and investigation at the departmental level and that, it may bc several years before it is completed. In these circumstances one may be excused for forming the impression that the inquiry will bring forward a decision more in keeping with the wishes of the Government than would an impartial outside inquiry. 
The immigration programme owes its success amongst other things to the united support of most of the major political parties of Australia. In fact it is one of the few aspects of national policy on which there is fairly general agreement except probably on the details of administration. I. go further and say that it is because of this approach that the selling of the scheme to the Australian people 25 years ago aud since has been made possible. At that time the acceptance of large scale migration of Greeks, Italians and other nationalities seemed a remote possibility. In fact I shall go so far as to say that at that time even Pommies, as we used to call them, were a little bit suspect. 
With this background I suggest to the Minister that in the interests of immigration and its further this inquiry should have been conducted by an all-party parliamentary commitee from both Houses of the National Parliament. The type of committee that would be set up that way, widely representative, uncommitted, with first hand knowledge of the scheme, would have been well qualified to bring down a report that would have been invaluable to the Minister and the Government, whatever its political colour; on which the future programme of migration might be based. In the past, committees of this kind have rendered invaluable reports to the Parliament. 
It seems strange that we have a variety of committees including the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, the Joint Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation, the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise and the House of Representatives Committee on Wildlife Conservation and others, yet on this important subject the Minister cannot see fit to give us an all party committee of both Houses on probably the most important national project of our time. I think that the Minister has failed to that extent in that he has restricted this inquiry with its wide terms of reference and the long range effects that it will have on Australia's future to a committee that is limited in that respect. I say that it is a matter for regret that the inquiry will be conducted evidently on a departmental level. Without any reflection on those concerned, I believe that even at this late stage a committee such as I have suggested should be appointed for an investigation into all the ramifications of the migration scheme. I believe that its findings would be of great benefit to Australia and to the Government, whatever its political colour might be. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What was the enrolment in each Federal electoral division at the time of the 1968 redistribution. 
What is the present (a) enrolment and (b) population of each electoral division. 
 1  rise to a point of order,  Mr Speaker.  I draw you attention to the length of the Minister's reply. Might  I  say that because visitors are in the galleries, we are not asking for second reading speeches in reply to questions. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many migrants have arrived in Australia in each of the last 10 years and what was the total for the period. 
From which countries did these migrants come what was the total number from each country, and what was the number of (a) males; (b) females; and (c) children. 
How many in each case were (a) skilled; (b) professional and; (c) unskilled workers. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many migrants in Australia at this date, who are eligible for naturalisation, have not yet applied. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I ask him: Has his attention been drawn to a report that a member of (he Communist Party will be a guest  speaker  at a meeting of the Northern Suburbs Branch of the Liberal Party on 20th October next to speak on the subject 'Modern Aspects of Trade Unionism'? If so, is this an indication that the Liberal Party's new approach to peace in industry will be based on Communist philosophy, and if so, whether it will follow the Moscow or the Peking line? ls it also a fact that all members of this Branch will be photographed and screened and that their portraits will be filed in the archives of the Australian  Security  Intelligence Organisation to be turned up when the revolution comes? 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
What percentage of the primary votes was received by each candidate whose name appeared in the first position on the ballot paper in each electoral division in Australia at the 1969 Federal elections. 
What was the average percentage of the votes for these candidates' in (a) each Slate and (b) Australia. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
Who is responsible for fixing travelling expenses for public servants stationed overseas. 
What isthe rate of travelling expenses and allowances per day paid to officers in each grade at each overseas post. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the formula for deciding the travelling allowance and expenses paid to public servants travelling on official business in (a) Australia and (b) overseas. 
If the allowances are based on salary, what is the relevant allowance for each grade of salary. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has any officer of his Department visited overseas posts in the last 3 years to review travelling allowances and exepenses of the staff. 
If so, what was the (a) date of the visit, (b) length of visit, (c) expense allowance per day of the officer and (d) total cost of the visit. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the date on which the rate of daily travelling allowance for public servants stationed in (a) Great Britain, (b) Italy and (c) Greece was last increased! 
What was the (a) rate at that date, (b) amount of the increase and (c) rate of salary of the officers affected. 

 - Mr Speaker, I  desire to make a personal explanation as  I  feel that  I  have done an injustice to some members of the Government party. 
I  thank you,  Mr Speaker.  With due deference to the Prime Minister, members of his Party did take notice of this and that is why  I  want to make the explanation today. During a debate in the Parliament on 4th September  I  referred to certain members of the Liberal Party and said: 
Young Turks of the Liberal Party are the present-day vanguard of the movement towards Nazism in Australia. 
On reflection  I  realised the gravity of this statement which  I  made in the heat of debate.  I  regret and withdraw the imputation against the members concerned. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How much of the expenditure of$2,600,000 for publicity for his Department for the year 1969-70 was spent on (a) radio; (b) television; (c) newspapers and (d) other media. 
What amount was spent (a) in Australia and (b) abroad. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is any record kept of the number of migrants who received an assisted passage to come to Australia and who returned to their country of origin within the two-year period. 
If so, how many (a) males and (b) females returned to their country of origin within the twoyear period in each of the last 5 years. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, in discussing the estimates of the Department of the Army 1 wish to raise a matter of principle in regard to the conduct of Army officers who criticise members of the Parliament in relation to their statements in this place. I am prompted to do so by reason of a recent statement made by  Senator Wheeldon.  I make no comment on the question, of what was said in that statement or the pros and cons of the situation. I just raise the question of whether or not serving Army officers are to be allowed to write to the Press and express opinions in a manner contrary to Army regulations in relation to the conduct of people who may criticise them in this Parliament. Later, I will show that the Government does not worry about criticism from the Army when it applies to members of the Opposition but that, when the criticism applies to Government members, the officers concerned are humiliated, rebuked and called to book. That is why. I raise the matter tonight. 
On Tuesday, 13th October 1970, in reply to a question in this Parliament, the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  referred to a statement made by  Senator Wheeldon.  Answering the question from one of the Government members, the Minister said that this statement had been drawn to his attention. The officer concerned was Lieutenant-Colonel Forward. Lieutenant-Colonel Forward, a serving officer, wrote to a newspaper calling a member of this Parliament a liar. 
I hope that the honourable member for La Trobe remembers that statement. This is what the Minister said: 
Whilst accepting that serving officers and soldiers should not become actively involved in politics, I would have to say that the senator's statement must have been provocative to any soldier and particularly to a commanding officer. 
He stated further: 
I believe that Lieutenant-Colonel Forward's letter was correcting an inaccurate and misleading Statement. In the circumstances, I am not pre pared to direct that action be taken against. LieutenantColonel Forward for any alleged breaches of military regulations. -Does not that statement to the Press in itself express a vote of complete no confidence on the part of LieutenantColonel Forward in the Minister at the table? What is the Minister for the Army paid for? Is not he the spokesman in this place for his officers? Is it not his responsibility, if a member of this Parliament speaks out for any purpose, to protect the Service or the officer concerned? Where will we end if every officer can say what he thinks about statements made by any member of this Parliament or any official in the Parliament? We might even have some members of the Army quite rightly expressing their opinions of the present Service Ministers. If they did, their opinions would be libellous because we all know of the incompetence of those Ministers. What would be the situation if the Minister for the Army was called a liar by one of the soldiers serving in Vietnam? You know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that he would be court martialled tomorrow morn-  ing, called out of the ranks and, for that matter, probably shot. But, no! We find that the principle is not involved in this case. 
Why should not the Minister answer for his Service staff? I believe that the Minister for the Army was treated by LieutenantColonel Forward as an office boy on a man's errand. He could not trust the Minister to defend the Service, if this was what he wanted him to do, so LieutenantColonel Forward stepped in and assumed the right to be what some Army men try to be, that is, politicians and political personalities at the same time as being serving members in our Forces. The Minister for the Army apologised abjectly because he said that in this case it was the right of Lieutenant-Colonel Forward to do what he did because he had been incensed by what had been said. 
1 ask the Minister for the Army, who is at the table and who is trying to interject, whether he is not being paid to defend the Services from attacks made on them in this Parliament? If he is not doing so, he is drawing his money under false pretences. What he should have done was to point out to that soldier that, in accordance with Service regulations, he had no right to speak other than through the Minister. 
Now I will, take the Committee back to what happened a few years ago. The present case shows. the attitude of the Government when an. Opposition member is involved. Let us see what happened when a Government Minister was involved in a similar happening a few years ago. We all remember the. calamitous days in this Parliament when the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  was Minister for the Navy. When the . United States 'Evans' was sunk by the HMAS 'Melbourne' the great ministerial comment of the honourable member for Wakefield when asked what he thought about it was: 'Just bloody bad luck'. That, was the comment of the Minister at the time. Let us look at what happened. 
We find that the Flag Officer commanding the Australian. Fleet at that time was Rear-Admiral G. T. B. Crabb. What did he say? During the course of certain remarks, he reflected on certain aspects regarding Navy. Forces. He made a public statement on the subject and said that they were ineffective. What he said in effect was, according . to the report of a Press conference, that Australia's 3 guided missile destroyers did not make a viable or effective naval force. This was said on 12th August 1968.. He then passed further comments in regard to this and other matters. 
The then Minister for the Navy, the honourable member for Wakefield, was away at the time. But what happened when the matter was brought to his attention? First, he was -asked a question in this Parliament on it. He' said: 
I have seen (he- reports to which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has referred. It is true that Admiral Crabb, is reported to have made certain statements. I point out that by so doing he contravened Naval Regulation No. 5914- 
That he could not speak publicly on those matters - 
I would also point out that Admiral Crabb is not a member of the Naval Board, which has the responsibility of advising the Government. 
As regards Admiral Crabb's opinion on the three guided missile destroyers not being a viable force, I want to make it quite clear that this is not the opinion' of the Naval Board, which has the responsibility to advise the Minister in the matter. 
A report in The Sydney Morning Herald of 12th August stales: 

 Mr Kelly issued his rebuttal after conferring with Rear Admiral Crabb, the Chief of the Naval Staff. . . . Rear Admiral Crabb was at Sydney Airport to meet  Mr Kelly  when he returned from Singapore yesterday and the two went into conference immediately.  Mr Kelly  later conferred by telephone with Vice Admiral Smith. 
Of course, he repeated what the Rear Admiral said at that time.  Mr Kelly  said: 
This, as the Admiral now realises,  was  clearly a most unfortunate expression  and is just  not correct. The Admiral himself made  it  perfectly clear that the Navy was delighted with the destroyers and furthest  from his mind was  any questioning of the fighting capability and great value of these ships to the fleet. 
In other words the Admiral was made to recant. He had attacked the worst Minister for the Navy in the history of this country. He had to apologise to him abjectly. He had to be humiliated because the man he attacked was a Liberal Minister. You cannot attack the Liberals. They are next to the Almighty. They are infallible - even the worst of them. The admiral spoke the truth and he was called to order in this Parliament. The headlines everywhere read: 'Storm Brewing on Navy Needs' and 'Rebuke for admiral by Minister'. What a difference when an incompetent Liberal is attacked. It is a monstrous thing to do. This man, one of the leading Navy men of the time, contravened the regulations and he was pulled into line. With due respect to the Minister for the Army, who is not the brightest - he is a long way ahead of the Minister for the Navy - he has crawled to LieutenantColonel Forward in- this Parliament because he could not bring himself to. rebuke a member of the forces for criticising a member of the Australian Labor Party. Where will all this end? 1 point this out tonight to show there is one law for the Labor Party and another law for the Government. I wonder what distant posting Lieutenant-Colonel Forward would be in tonight if he had attacked the Minister as he attacked the Labor senator. This is th". situation we have to face. Where is it all to end? I say to the Minister: Army officers have no right to butt into the politics of this country. If they want to be in politics let them stand for Parliament. Let them take their choice: They are either in the Army, Navy or Air Force or they are in the Parliament. Whilst we. put up with 
Ministers who will sit here and apologise for soldiers they are not prepared to rebuke when they have contravened the regulations, we can understand why the country is going bad. 
The Minister asked when did he apologise. Was it not pathetic to hear him the. other day say that Lieutenant Colonel Forward was entitled to do it. He almost bent low as he said it in the Parliament. Let him say tonight why a Minister rebuked the Admiral and he would not rebuke the Colonel. I put it on record that the reason why he would not rebuke him was because a Labor man was involved. If this is to be the conduct of the Army officers I hope they will give us a run down on the Minister for the Army, Navy and Air Force and what it really thinks of them because that will make the best political propaganda for the Labor Party that we can put before the people in any election. I repeat that there is one law for the Labor Party and one law for the Liberal Party. The Army officers run the Government and Ministers like the Minister for the Army are not prepared to accept their responsibilities and answer in this Parliament for the people for whom they are responsible when they are attacked, be it right or wrong. It is a scandalous state of affairs. I notice the Minister for the Navy is silent. With all bis failings I do not think he would have tolerated this kind of conduct, and that is stretching it a lot. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Primary 
Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that an inter-Departmental Committee is about to make a recommendation for the restriction of prohibition of the import of fancy cheeses into Australia. &gt; 
If so, why was the form of inquiry restricted as against' the normal procedure of an open and impartial inquiry before the Tariff Board. 
Could therecommendation have farreaching effects on our trade with other countries and result in a denial of the preferences for these cheeses by migrants coming to Australia whom we are endeavouring to attract under our migration programme, 
In the courseof this enquiry what consideration was given to the established preferences of migrants who regard many of these cheeses such as Esrom,Emmenthaler, Jarlsberg, Erbo, Bel Passe, Montasio,Fontina, Lyden, Taffel, Graddost, Kaskaval,Tilsit, Ambrosia, Sheeps Milk Fetta, as art essential part of their dietary requirements for which there is no acceptable substitute in Australia. .... 
I direct my question to the Prime : Minister. Is it a fact that in an address to the New South Wales Liberals recently be stated that Australia's immigration policy as it related to coloured people could not be justified on moral grounds? If so, will he outline to the House the basis for this remarkable and very debatable statement? Is he aware also that successive Ministers for Immigration have consistently, and quite rightly in my view, justified and supported the policy on moral, social and economic grounds evidently because of their belief that a government has a moral obligation to protect its own people particularly from racial tensions and friction? Will the Prime Minister also state what is immoral about a policy that admits almost 10,000 non-Europeans and people of mixed descent yearly, gives discretionary power to the Minister, has kept Australia' free from racial hatreds and is based on the same principles as the immigration policies of practically every nation in the world? 
1 want to address a few remarks to the estimates of the Department of Social Services. However, before doing so might 1 ask the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  if he has yet had an opportunity to investigate the case 1 raised the other night of a migrant who, on the present basis, will be 109 years old before he gets an age pension. I presented an application form to the Minister and he indicated that for anybody 100 years old he expected to be able to waive the general conditions and make available a pension. No-one knows how long this migrant will live. He is 105 now and he cannot wait much longer for a pension. 1 ask the Minister whether he has investigated it, what can be done and whether he can remove this anomaly in the legislation so as to avoid a similar situation arising in the future? 
I also wish to speak about the Government's recent increase in the Budget of 50c for pensioners. Without being extravagant in my language I would say (hat would be one of the most miserable increases in the time T have been in the Parliament. The full cost of the increase was $27m. The Government says there is no money for pensions, no money to provide for people who have no other income. About 200,000 people exist on $15 a week. The Government says that higher pensions could not be afforded because of the need to balance the Budget. But without any effort, in order to placate the Premiers on the eve of the Senate elections, out of the air S50m is grabbed. No money for pensioners but plenty to placate the States - the Boltes and people like him. If the Government can find money in that way it should make it available to provide assistance for more than 1 million people dependent on social welfare. There was no shortage of money when the Government wanted $400m to spend on Fills. There was no problem at all when it wanted to buy more Phantoms. There is plenty of money for Vietnam. If the Government is in trouble tomorrow in respect of some other economic matter with the States more money will be provided. I do not quibble at money being provided for essential services but I do say that the Government's priorities in social welfare are completely upside down. 
The first consideration of any government should be for the aged, the sick and those people in the community who cannot care for themselves. How the Minister for Social Services, whom I know from past experience has great sympathy for these people, can stand in this Parliament and justify this miserable and contemptible increase is beyond me. The reaction of the public on these matters has been very sensational, considering how pension rises or the conditions of the pensioners are generally forgotten. But the public from all sections of society have been shocked by this meagre increase in pensions. The increase takes a single man to the princely sum of $15.50 per week. If he is a pauper he gets up to $2 a week extra, making a maximum income of $17.50. If my memory serves me rightly, and I believe it does, it means that the maximum amount a man in that category can get is $17.50 per week at a time when the average income of Australians is about $75 to $80 per week. A man can leave work today that is bringing him in, say, $50 and tomorrow is expected to live entirely on $17.50 per week. It is scandalous. It is a disgrace to Australia, a disgrace to the Government and a disgrace to anybody associated with it in this time of affluence and prosperity for big sections of the community. Of course, it is still a sin in the eyes of the Government to be married. Only $27.50 a week is granted to a married couple. That has never been changed. It is discrimination of the worst kind against married pensioners and it is being continued by this Government. 
Instead of making substantial payments to those who are in need and discontinuing its discrimination the Government grabs out of the air some amount. It has always intrigued me how in granting pension increases, the Government never assesses by any method what is necessary. Why is 50c decided upon? Is it just pulled out of the air? Why could it not be 70c, 80c or 90c. The real answer is that it is all guesswork done only for political purposes, lt should be taken out of that category and based on some reasonable proposition in line with the cost of living. As 1 said a moment ago I am prompted tonight to remind the Minister that so shocked have the public been by the treatment given to pensioners that a pensioners' little budget campaign has been launched at 67 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, in Victoria. I received a copy of a letter dated 20th October 1970 which read: 
I would like to draw your attention to the Pensioners' Utile Budget Campaign which believes that many Australians are concerned at the meagre pension increase of 50c given at a time when most sections of the community have benefited from wage increases, improvements to hospital and medical benefit programmes and were further assisted financially by tax deductions. The Campaign has already received substantial support in Victoria. The Presbyterian and Methodist Conferences and the Anglican Synod have endorsed the proposals and the Press has given prominence to the Campaign with news reports and editorials. 
I think there should be an immediate introduction of a new budget to provide, if for no-one else, for those in this section of society. The sponsors of this campaign are people from a wide range of organisations. The sponsors include Professor R. R. Andrew,  Mr Robin  Boyd,  Sir James  Darling,  Mr R.  C. David,  Mr S.  M. Gilmour, Professor B. S. Hetzel,  Mr R.  G. Hobbs, Professor the Rev. Davis Mccaughey, Professor Jean I. Martin,  Mr Eric  Pearce,  Mr Leslie  M. Perrot, junior, the Rev. Gordon Powell, Rabbi  Dr I.  Papaport, Miss Elizabeth Sharpe, Rabbi  Dr H.  M. Sanger, the Rev. John Westerman and the Most Rev.  Dr Frank  Woods. The Organising Committee comprises  Mr David  Scott, the Rev. D. Dargaville,  Mr Walter  Lippman and the Rev. P. Hollingworth. In a splendid little document the campaign lists chapter and verse the failure of this Government in respect of social welfare. On the first page of this letter to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  of 8th October 1970 it states: 1 am writing to you on behalf of the Pensioners' Little Budget Campaign Committee which consists of people who are not themselves pensioners but who have joined together in a voluntary capacity to urge upon your government new initiatives in  the field of pension and post retirement welfare, following the introduction of the recent Federal budget. 
This in itself shows the shock the public received from this meagre increase. Then the letter condemns the 50c increase in pension which only brought some pensions up with the increased costs of last year. The letter to the Prime Minister goes on to outline how a person on $200 per week receives $5.50 reduction in taxation, and a person on $140 a week receives a S3 reduction under the Government's proposals. But pensioners, who have to catch up with an 8 per cent increase in the cost of living in the last year, receive a miserable 50c per week or 7c a day. As 1 mentioned in a previous speech, they can buy a newspaper 4 or 5 days a week to find out how the cost of living has gone up and then they find they have spent their increase. The letter goes on to say: 
The 50c increase provided for pensioners in the budget will cost the Treasury $30m for this year. The lax concessions to the middle income groups - 
Those in the middle income group get up to $30,000 a year. This is a pretty successful middle income grouper - will cost S228m or seven times more than the increase in the pension payments. 
This is a scandalous state of affairs, ls it any wonder that those people, destitute and desperate, sick and aged and alone, have lost faith in the Government and the protection that it should give to them. Time does not permit me to run right through this letter written by David Scott to the Prime Minister, lt no doubt has reached the Minister for Social Services. If any justification is needed for a pensioners' little budget it is outlined in this letter in clear and unmistakable language and in a way which indicates the sincerity of this wide range of people who feel interested enough at this stage to do something for the pensioners whom the Government has neglected. I suggest to the Minister that he should take notice of what has been written by men in a position to know, all of whom would be on substantial salaries and realise how difficult it is to make ends meet particularly if people are only pensioners. I suggest to the Minister that he should immediately review the situation and do something in the spectacular way we thought he would do things when he came to the Ministry. He should get up in the 
Parliament and say: 'For once the Prime Minister has listened to me and 1 am willing to introduce a little Budget Let him give a stimulating approach to social welfare, not the old decadent approach be has brought to the Ministry which we thought had gone when he was elevated. He should in that way do something  m  a practical way for these people who really need it, those dependent for their existence on SI 5.50 a week or, if they are married, $27.50 a week. Tt is too low for any section of society, lt is too low particularly for the aged and the sick and 1 urge the Government to do something about it in line with what has been suggested in that letter. 
My remarks tonight are prompted by a speech which was made by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  regarding the construction of facilities at HMAS 'Cerberus' at Westernport in Victoria. He outlined the facilities to be made available. It is proposed to provide sleeping, messing and amenities facilities for chiefs and petty officers at this establishment. These include three 3-storey sleeping blocks each of 100 cabins, hot water systems, laundries, builtin furniture in cabins, bars, games, television and ante-rooms, shower facilities, carpets and a few other items of that nature. 
In these circumstances I want to suggest to the House a further amenity which will bring comfort, serenity, cleanliness and exhilaration to the petty officers concerned. Why not provide each bed with a pair of Sheridan printed sheets? My research indicates the outstanding qualities of this product. I quote a few of them for the benefit of honourable members. It is said of these sheets: 
. colour excitement is provided by Sheridan printed sheets.  . . Much more fun than  a  plain colour. 
It ls said that they are available In: Sheridan's Sunspray, a dainty all-over daisy pattern of Pink on White, 
For a change one may try: Petaldown, a very feminine print is the Gold/Pink/Lilac colour combination, or perhaps Fleur, a delicate small-flower design, in Gold. 
Furthermore, one does not lose out by choosing these super designs because: 
Sheridan  sheets are  as modem as anything overseas.  They're terribly  quick-drying.  They're  creaseresistant,  so they  look fine  without  ironing. Completely preshrunk as well. 
They would look nice in the cabins. Another wonderful feature is:   the way the bottom  sheet  fits the  mattress  so it just  can't rumple and  bed-making  is easier. 
Sheridan printed sheets have other modern advantages, too. Their weave of SO per cent polyester/SO per cent cotton is the reason why they are so luxuriously soft and light, yet last much longer than ordinary sheets. 
In fact, it is said - and this is remarkable: 
. they 'breathe', so they're warmer in winter and cooler in summer.  an ideal saving for the Government - 
And of course they're colourfast. Sheridan make them fitted or flat, for single, double and king-size  beds- 
Big enough for any petty officer -  with matching pillow-cases, all at sensible prices. 
In fact it is said: 
Beautiful bedrooms begin with Sheridan Printed Sheets. 
To cap it all, with every pair of sheets one receives a free copy of 'Guide to Personality Decorating with the living colour of Sheridan', a 16-page book filled with helpful decorating ideas and exciting colour photographs. 
Naturally, I will not mention any names, because this is not a commercial. But I am reliably informed that the very best people use Sheridan sheets. In fact, the way these sheets have found their way on to the best of beds is the talk of the town. I would like to say more, but some people seem to think that the less said about Sheridan sheets the better. However, take it from me: They would certainly give a lift to HMAS 'Cerberus'. I suggest to the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  that he place an order, and then the petty officers could preen and prance like peacocks. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation whether his attention has been drawn to a report that an injunction was granted recently on the application of several learned barristers in Sydney to restrain developers from using jackhammers at certain times , as the noise made it impossible for them to work in their chambers. If so, does this indicate that protection from noise is evidently available to everyone except to people almost driven out of their homes and senses by aircraft noise? If so, is there any reason why the law should not be amended to provide that persons or organisations affected by aircraft noise at all hours of the day and night should be entitled to take similar action against the Government or the airline companies responsible for this menace to their health, homes and welfare? In any case, in view of the curfew at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport being constantly broken with the approval of the Minister, will he make public the legal rights of individuals and organisations to protection against this threat to their way of life? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the last occasion on which Government and Opposition Members of the Commonwealth Parliament were members of the Australian Delegation  to  the meetings  of  the International Labour Organisation in Geneva. 
On how many occasions have members from both sides of the Parliament attended these Conferences as delegates. 
What were the names of those who attended. 
In which years were these Conferences held. 
In view of the importance of the deliberations of the I.L.O., why has the practice of sending Parliamentary delegates been discontinued. 
Will he consider including delegates from Government and Opposition parties in future delegations to the Conference; if not why not. 
Firstly I wish to tender the apologies of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  for not being present, not only to express their good wishes to officers of the Parliament for their services during the past year, but also for not being here on this important occasion with which the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has dealt at some length, that is the departure from the Parliament today into retirement of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr McEwen).  The Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are unfortunately engaged on another mission which precluded them from being here. 
I wish to join in the sentiments that have been expressed by the Prime Minister to all those who make Parliament work, from the officers here to the Library staff, the dining room staff, the transport officers and all those associated with the Parliament whose activities in many cases go unnoticed but who make it possible for us to carry out our duties here. On behalf of the Opposition I join in the sentiments that the Prime Minister has expressed. The Prime Minister dealt at some length with your impartiality,  Mr Speaker.  I think you will excuse the Opposition if it says it does not go all the way with him in that respect, but pulls up a little short I remember saying to a former member of this Parliament about a certain Speaker: 'He is not a bad Speaker.' He said: 'No. He has improved out of sight. He has become a little fair lately, too.' I do not say that that applies to you,  Mr Speaker,  but the Opposition never agrees that the  Speaker  is completely impartial. But we do extend to you our good wishes. 
At this stage, while I cannot on behalf of the Opposition, wish Government supporters success in the Senate election, I will say that we hope they go well hut not well enough. But to all those associated with the election I repeat the Opposition's good wishes. I refer now to the retirement of the Leader of the Country Party. Next to the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  who is not here today, I have probably the longest service, with the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  in the Parliament. For twothirds of the time that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has been in the Parliament I have gazed across the chamber at him, mainly from the wrong side of the Parliament. I have seen him, more than any other member of the Parliament, in Opposition and in Government, and have learnt to respect his capacity and ability. Undoubtedly he has had a long and distinguished period of service in the Australian Parliament. I suppose we could say, in a sentimental way, that with his retirement there passes an era in politics ranging from the middle of the depression years to this year of 1970. That span of years with which he has been associated are amongst the most historic in Australia's history. It must bring back some very fond memories, some bad memories and at the same time a feeling of achievement of having lived through a period of depression and 2 world wars, to an age when man has reached the moon. 
Today there goes from the Parliament a figure and a personality whose service is linked with Australian history. We on this side of the Parliament know, more than the Government does, that the Deputy Prime Minister is and always has been a very hard fighter. He has never given much quarter and has never asked for any. I have always liked one thing about him. I think he is uninsultable. Much greater parliamentarians than I ever hope to be have tried him out in that respect and he stood the test of time in the most bitter days. One of the cardinal points in a politician, if he can achieve it - and it is hard to do - is that if he is uninsultable he will have much happier nights when he goes home. With due respect to the Deputy Prime Minister, I do not think he lost many nights sleep over worrying about what he said or did in the Parliament. When I heard him on television a while back saying: 'I am a mild man' and when I heard his speech here a day or so later against the Leader of the Opposition, I thought somebody had got the script mixed up. At the same time, these are things that we have learned to appreciate. 
The Country Party will certainly miss him. I would not be so offensive to those who are to follow, as to say that he cannot be replaced. But undoubtedly - I say it in all sincerity - he has served his Party well. To the best of his ability he did what all parliamentarians and members of parties should do: Give of their best for their party. It does not always please everyone, but I think we can say that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has done that for the Country Party in a very commendable way. Having said so much, may I again associate the Opposition with the tribute paid? I think it is a great thing that, for once in a while, the member concerned is present to hear his valedictory, because too often a member has to be dead before things are said about him that really matter. This is a very desirable change and is more in keeping with the times than if these things are said when the member is not present to hear them. 
Finally, I say to the Deputy Prime Minister that as he passes through the doors of Parliament into the shadows of retirement I believe I can say quite sincerely on behalf of all members of the Opposition that our good wishes are extended to him and his good wife for many, many happy years in retirement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did any jet flight take place over the vicinity of Annandale in the Federal Electoral Division of Grayndler during the curfew hours on Monday, 17th August 1970, at approximately 12.50 a.m. 
If so, what special circumstances operated for permission to be granted for this flight 
Did any jet flights take place over the same area in curfew hours between 11 p.m. on Wednesday, 12th August 1970, and 6 a.m. on Saturday, 16th August 1970. (4)If so, what exceptional circumstances necessitated the flights. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is the Marrickville Army Depot located in a thickly populated residential area. 
Is it a fact that on many occasions representations have been made for the release of this land for residential development, but on each occasion the request has been refused. 
In view of the grave shortage of land in the Sydney metropolitan area is there any reason why the Depot could not be transferred to a more appropriate site, and the land released to the State authorities for housing purposes. 
In any case, will he arrange for a full and complete investigation into the matter with a view to releasing this valuable land for the purposes suggested. 
 I move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view lo inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not refusing to give the Bill a second reading this House condemns the Government for the delay in providing a comprehensive programme of migration education, adequate finance facilities and capital equipment, including buildings. 
The provisions of this legislation were outlined fully in a preliminary statement by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  to the House on 23rd April 1970 and have been further detailed in his second reading speech. In these circumstances, it is hardly necessary for me to reiterate them in detail. Broadly speaking, however, they provide for an expansion of the migrant education programme for adults and children before and after arrival in Australia, in co-operation with the State education authorities. The Commonwealth is to provide the cost of teachers, certain capital equipment, text books, supervisory assistance, and allowances for migrants studying certain courses, and will give incentives to industry to assist in the educational programme. 
The Opposition is not opposed to the general principles of the scheme as we are well aware of the fact that the basis of successful integration or assimilation is communication. Without a knowledge of the language migrants are not only at a distinct disadvantage in respect of employment but also their general participation in community activities and our way of life is denied to them if they are unable to speak and understand our language. The importance of education in the English language to the migrant - adult and child - has been stressed by responsible authorities and migrant organisations ever since the commencement of the scheme, and particularly in more recent years. Successive Immigration Conventions and the Immigration Advisory Council have confirmed that the great barrier to assimilation and integration is the failure of the migrant to speak English and expressed the view that there is a real need for the teaching of the English language at every level for assimilation, social and economic reasons. 
As the amendment indicates, the Opposition is far from satisfied with the educational programme to date. It is not so much a criticism of what has been or is being done for migrants in this regard but rather that a more comprehensive scheme has been delayed so long, particularly in view of the constant urging by conventions and immigration authorities. This measure, which is by no means the be-all and endall of the matter, is belated and a long time overdue. 
At this stage I pose a few questions in respect of the subject, and some constructive criticisms of the Department and its activities in this field. Firstly, having in mind the Government's sustained drive for migrants, has this aspect of migration been neglected, or at least, has the Department not been insistent enough in the priority that should be given to migrant education? 
Provision of educational services to enable adult migrants to learn the English language began in 1947 in the opening days of post-war immigration schemes or, if I may say so, in the infancy of the programme. Since that time, great changes have taken place in the immigration programme, such as increased numbers, differing types of migrants and methods of transport. The fact that more than 50 per cent of the 700,000 migrants requiring instruction in English discontinued the classes would seem to present proof that a new and stimulating approach was needed in this field. These figures should have been an indication to the Department that the programme was falling short of what was required, particularly as lack of communication by language is accepted as the great barrier to citizenship and assimilation. It was evidently not until about 1967 or 1968 that the real seriousness of the situation dawned on the Government and with it the need to provide a scheme whereby the children in schools and those adults whom I might term the waverers, or those who were not highly educated and were unable to learn English, needed a new and comprehensive scheme if they were to do so. This point of view is substantiated by the figures I mentioned earlier and by the fact that only about 22,000 or 23,000 at this date are enrolled in continuation classes, radio and correspondence courses throughout Australia. 
Surely, with this problem being stressed by immigration authorities everywhere, including citizenship conventions, advisory councils and other interested parties, a scheme might well have been expected at a much earlier date. Even now, under this scheme there are some glaring weaknesses which I shall show later. For instance, on the question of adult, education under these proposals, the casual migrant, as I shall call him, must be prepared to spend 5 hours a day for 6 weeks in the partly accelerated course at his own expense or 2 hours a week for a period of 18 months a,t a night school course if he desires to learn the language. This is a fairly tough proposal. It must be extremely doubtful, therefore, whether this large section of the migrant force, or a large percentage of it, will benefit by the scheme. When all is said and done, no matter what a person's educational capacity may be, it is essential that he learn the language of his adopted country. Many thousands of migrants have neglected to do this for many and varied reasons, lt has yet to be proved whether the incentive and the expansion of the educational programme as outlined will encourage them to do so. Since  1945  more than  2  million migrants have come to Australia. lt would be an interesting exercise to ascertain how many or what percentage have learned to speak English since their arrival. 
Secondly, at a time when every educational body in Australia - State, independent and university - is clamouring for additional teachers, schools and finance, where does the Government consider that the necessary number of teachers will be recruited? lt is estimated that the number of teachers required will be  300,  and this at a time when there is an acute shortage of skilled teachers in Australia. 
Classes are too big, classrooms are overcrowded and generally speaking the shortage of everything is acute. In fact, New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland are recruiting teachers from abroad. I am informed that  100  teachers will be required this year,  60  next year and  330  for the year  1971-72.  This is a very tall order at a time of acute teacher shortage, so the Minister might indicate what arrangements have been made to recruit them, what are the prospects of securing them, what are the qualifications necessary and what are the reactions of the educational authorities. 
Thirdly, what indication has been given that the migrants, whom I would describe as being :on the fringe', that is, those who have no special educational qualifications or inclination but who must know English for employment and other purposes, will be more interested than they have been previously in learning English. Probably the scheme is intended to appeal to them but in what way, as compared with the previous scheme, will it do so. On the surface, it will remain much the same as it is today. Information has already been given to the House that only  47  per cent of the  708,000  migrants who have come to Australia and attended pre-embarkation ship board, continuation or correspondence courses, have completed the course. Even in November  1969  only  14,840  migrants were enrolled in  1,050  continuation classes, and  7,780  migrants were taking combined radio and correspondence courses. In view of the number of migrants involved, these figures are by no means heartening. Will the position be improved under this scheme? 
How will this scheme appeal to this section of the migrant population who have neglected to learn English? What incentive is to be given to them? Most of them, no doubt, cannot afford to take time off from work and at night are either too tired or lack the inclination lo spend time to which they are no doubt unaccustomed for periods of  2  hours a week for  18  months. This is not an easy problem, but it certainly merits special attention. 
Has the Minister any idea as to what will be the response of industry to participation in the scheme? Will it co-operate? Will the lessons be given in the employers' time or after work? This is important because I believe it will have a distinct bearing on the success or failure of the scheme. These are just a few of the questions one may ask. They are asked not in order to knock the proposals but more in an endeavour to ascertain the depth of the Government's investigations of this subject. 
I believe that it would be reasonable to ask industry to participate in a practical way in bringing a knowledge of the English language to this section of the migrant force. After all, industry has benefited a lot from the immigration programme. In fact, to my mind industry has had it on the cheap. It has been provided with employees - sometimes highly skilled - at little or no cost to it. This in turn has resulted in increased production and increased spending and purchasing power. T believe that industries employing large numbers of migrants should, at their own cost, provide classes in English. They should also encourage migrants to learn the language for safety and economic reasons, and it should be done at the employers' expense during working hours. 
Industries might also provide some monetary incentive or additional leave, promotion or something of this nature as a further stimulus to overcome the language barrier. I understand that some industrial organisations already are co-operating and providing classes in English along the lines I have suggested, and the scheme might well be expanded. However, the scheme should cover the whole range of industry, and I suggest to the Minister that implementation of an extensive campaign throughout industry along the lines I have mentioned might bring success in the recruitment of migrants to English classes. Today, for a number of reasons, migrants discontinue their classes and their education in the English language. 
Comparatively recently two excellent surveys were conducted, one by the Department of Immigration in Canberra and the other by the New South Wales Department of Education, on the question of migrant education and the education of migrant children. These excellent reports, which are available to all and from which quotations have been made in the Parliament, referred to some of the problems confronting people who do not know the English language. I shall quote a few extracts from the reports broadly and quickly in the time available to me in order to give honourable members an idea of some of the problems which face this scheme and which must be overcome if the scheme is to be of great benefit. For instance, the report of the survey conducted by the New South Wales Department of Education in 1968-69 stated: 
Migrant children performance in many subjects is affected by their language difficulties. 
The predominant groups of migrants with English difficulties are the Italians, Greeks, Yugoslavs - totalling 61 per cent of the sample. 
Of those with English difficulties 42 per cent come from homes where it is never spoken and 43 per cent sometimes. 
Comparison shows that a significant proportion of migrants with poor school progress came from homes where English is never spoken. 
The report of the survey conducted by the Department of Immigration in Canberra stated: 
Based on evidence from departmental surveys it would be reasonable to estimate that approximately one-third of foreign bom migrants would be unable to speak English. Applied to the foreign bom migrant population this would mean that some 240,000 migrants would benefit from English language instruction. 
That shows the nature of the problem and also indicates that this legislation has to cover a wide field. The report of the survey conducted by the New South Wales Department of Education in 1968-69 on the question of education of migrant children also stated: 
Incidence of migrant children in total school population is about 1 in 20 and of the 50,664 reported migrant pupils some 16,452 - 32 per cent - have some type of English language difficulty. 
One could quote at great length, from the report of the survey, which was an excellent one, because there are pages which deal with the problems facing these children and the problems which the Department of Education in New South Wales faces in providing education for these children. 
As I mentioned earlier, migrant children present a very difficult problem, and one of the most significant statements which have been made on this subject appears in an article by Carolyn Dowling. In an article entitled 'Seen But Not Heard', which was published in March 1968, she said: 
The passive, uncomprehending figure whose idleness and blank stare mar the most industrious of classes, is a more common sight, particularly in the lower forms of suburban high schools, than we care to admit. 
That, as the Minister quite rightly pointed out, is one of the major- problems confronting us. The survey indicates the severe strain that has been placed on the educational system and on teachers in New South Wales and no doubt throughout Australia. It is difficult for a teacher to transmit knowledge to a child who has very little, if any, understanding of the English language. It is just as unfair to the children who, in many cases, while mentally more advanced that those who know and understand English are forced to languish in lower classes because of this disability. Of course, as I have mentioned, because of the conditions the teachers find the task well nigh impossible and can only do the best they can. 
The number of migrant children in schools runs into many thousands, as has been pointed out in these articles and as is indicated by the number of teachers to be recruited. It has certainly taken the Government a long time to realise how unfair it is to teachers, children and State authorities to bring non-English speaking migrants into the country in thousands and leave the full responsibility for their education at every level to State governments and independent schools. The need has been there for a long time and, very belatedly, the Government has evidently realised its responsibility but still baulks at the capital expenditure and at making more extensive grants to the authorities for educational purposes. increased education costs to the States because of the influx of migrant children has given rise in many quarters to the question whether our migration programme should be curtailed. That is one of the major reasons advanced by those who advocate that course. These remarks, critical though they may be, are offered constructively in the hope that the Opposition's views will result in improving the approach of the Government, both financially and practically, in the important field of migrant education. So important is language that  1  submit to the Government that migrant education should be encouraged by a wider range of activities in language and citizenship instruction, as appears to have been clone in Canada. For instance, in Canada classes for language instruction and courses in civic affairs have mushroomed and are conducted under various auspices, such as provincial departments of education, local school boards, service clubs, churches, welfare agencies, universities and ethnic groups. 
It is true that there are many variations in the degree, quality and intensity of the courses offered. Some offer education by trained teaching personnel. Others are of a sporadic nature and are guided by volunteers. However, iri spite of all the diversity, there is a common thread running through the courses offered and growing evidence of uniformity amongst all the programmes because of the liaison and help provided by officers of the Canadian Citizenship Branch. Without saying that Canada has the perfect system, surely it is an indication of how much could be done in Australia along these lines. A national campaign seeking the co-operation of voluntary organisations, industries, clubs, progress associations, churches and other sections of the community would be a forward step in the education of migrants. If necessary, some form of financial or material assistance could he given. 
Another factor that appears to be overlooked is that, I understand, approximately  60  per cent of the migrant* coming to Australia travel by air and the percentage might increase. This means that unless migrants have pre-embarkation instruction, they land in Australia without any knowledge at all of the English language. This is quite different from the days when practically all migrants travelled by ship and an education officer gave them instruction in the English language. Naturally this has accentuated the problem that we now face. 
Clause 3 of the Bill states:  capital equipment of an educational nature' includes tape recording and playing equipment, but does not include any building. 
This is undoubtedly one of the major weaknesses of the scheme, lt is in line with Government thinking on education generally, in that it fails to take into consideration the overcrowding and in many cases the non-existence of classrooms. Every education authority in the nation is clamouring for money for capital expenditure on buildings. There is nowhere to teach children in many schools, State and independent. Where are the educational classes proposed in this Bill to be assembled? What consideration has been given to the environment in schools for this type of teaching? lt is a specialised teaching requiring special facilities but, most importantly, it requires a suitable type of room. Is it to be expected that the teachers will lump all their equipment into the playground and teach under a tree, or will they teach on a verandah, in a weather shed or some other makeshift accommodation, because unless capital is available this is precisely what will happen? This appears to be the only way out for those who are short of capital. 
There can be no excuse whatever for the Government failing to provide funds for capital expenditure on buildings as part of this scheme. As it stands, it means that the Government reluctantly has accepted the fact that it has a responsibility to the children, the States and the teachers to provide some finance for the thousands of migrants who have been brought to Australia, but it is confining it to the very minimum and leaving the responsibility for finding additional capital to the States. This is not good enough, and this is why the Opposition has moved the amendment which indicates that the Government should provide funds for capital expenditure. 
The Minister estimates that the cost of the scheme over the next 4 years will total $16m, or $4m a year. The full cost of the migration scheme is extremely high. Only a small percentage will be spent on the education of migrants, yet this is generally accepted as the most important factor in their assimilation. Is it too much to ask that a substantial amount be made available for capital expenditure on buildings to alleviate this problem? Members of the Opposition believe that this should be the most important part of this legislation, quite apart from the provision of teachers, and unless the amendment is adopted we believe the scheme will fail. In his Ministerial statement of 23rd April 1970 the Minister said: 
The Government recognises that the ability of migrants to communicate is fundamental to their successful integration. There are short and long term social and human benefits for the migrant and for the community in encouraging and providing the means for migrants to learn English. 
Very few would disagree with this sentiment. The question is how do we achieve it and does the legislation now under discussion solve or at least make a major contribution towards this objective. As I have already indicated, I believe it is correct to say that while the legislation proposes an expansion of the present limited programme in the field of migrant education there are many gaps still to be plugged, as suggested by the amendment that 1 have moved. 
I have referred somewhat briefly to 2 major considerations in the migrant education problem. First, there are children to be considered and, secondly, adults. A few moments ago 1 quoted from a statement by Carolyn Dowling about migrant children. I believe it is a sound move to give specialised teaching in English in the classroom. This appears to be the ideal place within the school curriculum - in school hours, in school surroundings with the proper textbooks, equipment and environment. It gives the child the opportunity in the right atmosphere to learn the means of communication and fulfil his educational desires according to his capacity as times goes on. I think it is fair to ask the Minister how long it is expected that the classes will function until the child is competent in English. Also, what will be the ages of the children who will attend these classes It is more essential than ever that some form of teaching be introduced to the school when it is considered that the New South Wales survey on this problem revealed that about 47 per cent of the children come from homes where no English is spoken lt is probably true to say that this form of planning, when expanded, must prove of benefit to the child, and particularly to the harassed teacher who is endeavouring to transmit knowledge to a percentage of the class who simply do not know what is being said. The scheme will fail if the Government stints on finance for capital equipment and other essentials. 
Then there is the problem of the adults. Members of an Opposition parliamentary committee on immigration recently visited a centre where the intensive scheme was in progress. It was interesting to observe the people who were progressing favourably and quickly and to realise how lack of English had retarded their progress temporarily. One person we met was a dentist by profession but because of his lack of English he was working as a cleaner. A telecommunications technician was working as a kitchen hand. Another person undertaking this expanded course was a research technologist who was working as a laundry worker. Another was a horticulturalist but was presently occupied as a factory worker. I mention these people to indicate the effectiveness of the scheme. It is of value to these people whose experience could benefit this country. Until this intensive scheme was implemented they were denied the opportunity of pursuing their former occupations. This illustrates the need for the provision of proper educational facilities. 
Another problem concerns those migrant adults who vary in age from elderly grandparents or parents to those who left school immediately prior to their coming to Australia and who have probably had little or no schooling in their own country. They have no knowledge of English, no English is spoken in their homes and they drift into clubs or into an environment singularly of their own countrymen in the workshops and factories. They fraternise only with those speaking their own language, mainly for convenience and communication purposes. The number involved amounts to hundreds of thousands. The best figure to take is that percentage of the  708,000  mentioned by the Minister who have already received instruction. 
Does this legislation do anything to solve or relieve their problem? Is it  a  practical solution in the long term or is it an effort or contribution made hopefully to encourage them to participate in learning the language? Included in the adults are married women, many of whom do not go to work because of family circumstances. Their contact with English-speaking people is non-existent. How do they get on? Does this scheme propose  a  solution or an incentive for them? J am inclined to think that it will not touch many of this group. It is appropriate to refer to the excellent report concerning the survey undertaken by the New South Wales Department of Education. It states: 
Reasons for delayed enrolment in courses were job commitments, lack of knowledge of courses, or just arrived in Australia. Students' reasons for discontinuance were mainly too busy, shift work, overtime and mobility. 
Men gave as their reasons for nonattendance having  to  work too hard, laziness, overtime and fatigue. Women said that they were too busy at home or had family responsibility. About  97  per cent of the migrant students said they would like more opportunity to talk in English with Australian people. Many of these migrants may never attend an advanced course, perhaps because of lack of educational facilities. What effect does the Minister think that the present proposals will have on this type of migrant without incentives, including permission to attend courses during working hours? The migrants that I have mentioned must have  an  earnest desire to learn the language. They must have an incentive to improve their economic position. They must have  a  desire to integrate socially. They must find the time or be able to afford  to  learn the language either during the day or at night. 
I wonder whether any investigations have been made concerning what percentage of migrants in this category, or men and women over school age, really want to learn the language, and what is their intellectual capacity. The Minister has yet to state what effect the scheme will have on those I have mentioned and how many he expects will take advantage of it. Apart from those who really want to progress and learn the language because they are ambitious and anxious to succeed, I believe 2 factors stop people from educating themselves. Those with limited educational ability lack an incentive and they are incapable of finding time to attend classes. As I mentioned earlier, I believe that this problem could be overcome in respect of the men by their employers accepting more responsibility and enabling the men to attend classes in working time. Not only would this benefit the employer but it would make a satisfied citizen of the migrant concerned. To my mind the incentive scheme, in the case of adult men particularly, would appear to be the logical and practical way of achieving the best results. 1 feel that another method that might be applied - and no doubt it already has been to a great extent, but it could be more widely used - is an intensive publicity campaign among non-English speaking migrants on the need to learn the English' language. Every form of available advertising should be used to impress upon these migrants prior to acceptance, embarkation on shipboard or on plane and on arrival how vital it is to learn English in order to enjoy a happy and successful life in Australia. Every industry, every bank, every public office or in fact any medium of publicity should be utilised with display signs impressing the need of migrants to communicate and learn English and advising them how they can go about it. Every migrant should be issued with a special brochure in the language he speaks setting out very clearly, but not too extensively the practical results to be achieved by being educated in the English language. (Extension of time granted). I thank the House and I will not take much longer. Whilst not criticising the objectives and the principles prompting the legislation on the education of migrants, I believe that there are still gaps through which countless thousands of migrants will escape the opportunity to learn English and participate in our community, economic and social life. 
Time does not permit me to go over the full range of them. This is set out in the documents which I mentioned earlier. The facts and figures are given. They show that many are suffering and failing to be assimilated into our community because of lack of knowledge of English. These figures are there for all to see and they indicate the major problem. This is a problem which must be faced: we believe it will not be adequately covered by this legislation. I hope that the Minister will accept the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition in the spirit in which it is presented. It is an endeavour to offer a constructive approach to improving the education of adult and child migrants and to relieving the States of some of the responsibility for a national programme of immigration. We should accept our financial responsibility for education, housing and other matters. I offer this amendment as a constructive approach to improve the child and adult education of migrants brought to Australia in a scheme commenced 25 years ago which has always had the sympathy and support of honourable members on all sides of this Parliament. I hope the Minister will see fit to accept the amendment because I believe it will make a major contribution towards overcoming the difficulties in the education of migrants that I have mentioned during the course of my speech tonight. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Will he arrange for the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1966 to be brought up-to-date by reprinting wilh all amendments- 
The amendment moved bv the Minister for 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Is it an offence for a person who is not entitled to do so, to use letters which would signify that he had been decorated for bravery whilst serving as a member of the armed forces. 
If so, what section ofthe law cavers this offence and what is the penalty provided. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the name and the former rank and unit of each member of the Armed Forces who received either the: 
Victoria Cross; 
Military Cross; 
Distinguished Conduct Medal; or 
Military Medal; during the 1939-45 War. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What was the (a) informal vote in each Commonwealth electoral division in Australia and (b) percentage of informal to formal votes in each case, in the last Senate elections. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many persons have volunteered for service in the (a) Navy, (b) Army and (c) Air Force since the introduction of national service training. 
How many persons have been rejected in each case and what were the reasons for rejection. 
What was the percentage of rejections to enlistments in each service. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to a statement by the Leader ofthe Country Party and  Deputy  Prime Minister indicating that his Party was considering the recognition of Red China,no doubt because of the failure ofwheat sales to its Communist customers? If so, is it a fact that recognition of Red China is now under consideration and that economic considerations rather than the allegedhigh principles espoused in the past will be the major factor in the Government's decision to turn a policy somersault and recognise Red China as soon as possible? 
1 rise to support the motion of no confidence in what 1 confidently believe is the last 5 minutes of. the life of the Gorton Government. If any motion of no confidence deserved support it is certainly the one moved by the Leader of the Opposition in relation to the statement that was made on Tuesday by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  We listened for 7 minutes to the Prime Minister outlining his remedy for what is wrong with the Australian economy. One of the things that the Prime Minister can never be accused of is wasting his time on speeches. When he was first elected to this place he look months to come into the Parliament. The first speech which he wrote for  His Excellency  the Governor-General for the AddressinReply lasted 59 seconds. Now we have heard the Prime Minister describe the state of the economy in 7 minutes. I was interested to see that the major  speaker  in support of the Prime Minister's statement was not the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  but the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  Just who is the Treasurer of this country? Have we a shadow Treasurer to the Treasurer and if not why did not the Treasurer take his place and defend the policy that was put before us - the policy on which the Prime Minister had based his statement? 
I wish to refer to an extract from the Brisbane 'Telegraph' of 11th November 1969: 'The Treasurer sacked'. The article stated: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  today told his Parliamentary Liberal Party  deputy  leader,  Mr McM.,hon,  that he was being dropped as Treasurer . . . lt is clear  Mr Gorton  believes it is impossible for him to work closely with  Mr Mc  Mahon on domestic affairs and that there is less likely to be a conflict in the making of Government policy if the Treasurer moves to External Affairs. 
Today they resurrected the Minister for Foreign Affairs from the grave and brought him in to support the policies foisted on this Government not by the present Treasurer or the former Treasurer but by the one man band that is the Prime Minister. 1 noticed the Minister for Foreign Affairs looking around all the time as he spoke. Why wouldn't he? He wondered whether he was going to be stabbed by those around him.  Mr Speaker  you know as well as I do that the Treasurer was appointed to be what 1 might call  -  I do not say it in any disrespectful sense - the Charlie McCarthy of the Prime Minister on Treasury policy. The previous Treasurer was sacked because he realised 
What I indicated was that he was there to serve- 
 I withdraw the remark but say that he was there to serve the purpose of the Prime Minister's point of view irrespective of its effect on the country. Out of all this conglomeration comes one thing: The disunity in the Liberal Party amongst the top level Ministers indicates why the economy is in the state it is in today. To hear Government supporters speak on this issue anyone would think that the Australian Labor Party had been in office for 20 years. Anyone would think it was our policies that had brought disaster to the nation. Anyone would think that we had appointed the judges to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Anybody would think that we had given the economy the fillip, as one says, and the wage increases and all those things. The guilty men sit on the Government side of the Parliament. In 1949 from one end of the country to the other placards told the people: 'We will put value back into the Australian 1.' Do honourable members know what happened? The Government had to change the name of the currency to get away from the promise because it has not been fulfilled to this day. That is why we have decimal coinage. It is to get away from the promise of the Liberal Party because it could not fulfil its obligations in that respect. 
Now with a spiralling economy honourable members opposite attack the Arbitration Commission. A Minister threatened the Commission today, telling it not to give workers wage increases. He said: 'You are destroying the economic policy of this Government.' All the time he was trying to put responsibility for all the shortcomings in the economy and the inflation which exists on to the Arbitration Commission and on to the backs of the judges whom the Government has appointed. All the time the Government has evaded its responsibility, although it said that it would put value back into the Australian 1. Let the people listening tonight  -  I know literally millions of them are listening to me at this time - listen to this. If honourable members opposite believe the people are not interested in the state of the economy they should look at the election results in New South Wales and at the number of votes received by the Liberal Party at the last Senate election. The 2 Government Parties rated about 32 per cent of the votes. One out of 3 people in Australia voted for this Government's financial policies. As late as last Saturday they would not support the Government Parties in New South Wales simply because the policy the Government has foisted on the Australian people is one which is completely destroying the economy. Why, the Government has gone from the blimey to the gorblimey. 
I invite honourable members to look at the Prime Minister. He is called  Mr One  Per Cent now - 1 per cent reduction in expenditure. This amounts to $75m. The Government did not think of cancelling the F111 contract until it had spent $400m. As my colleague said tonight Vietnam conscription has already cost $300m. But this is what the Government is doing to relieve the economy. In Canberra, for instance, the tennis courts cannot be cleaned and no top soiling, landscaping, grassing and lawn watering can be undertaken. In addition the grass will be cut but it will not be removed. What a magnificent contribution that is to the welfare of Australia. No Commonwealth buildings will be floodlit and the Captain Cook Memorial Jet which was built at a cost of about $1m will spout for only 3 hours on Sundays. Look at the economy drive of the Prime Minister. What do we find? We find that the frequency of watering and lawn mowing is to be reduced. This work will be done by 2 people instead of 4. Evidently nobody told  His Excellency  about this economy drive so in the middle of it a guard came here at a cost of $600 a minute and he winged off to Sydney in  a  VIP jet to see the cricket. This completely destroyed the economy drive the Government is making on the watering cans and things associated with Canberra. Does this not show the stupidity of the approach of this Government? What miserable, petty little things it is doing to stop inflation in the community. As I say, the Government has thrown $300m down the drain for Vietnam. In addition to that, we find that Australian troops in Vietnam could be pulled out now thereby reducing costs. If we are talking about economies and what people are spending, let us take the case of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs who travelled in different planes to the Heads of Government Conference in Singapore. One went by VIP aircraft and the other travelled by Qantas- 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
Thatthe question be now  put. 
on this subject but 1 believe that it merits the attention of the Parliament, the principle involved being a great one. I shall repeat very briefly the circumstances of it. In December I received a letter from a lady in my electorate. She said:  1 am writing in connection with national service which my third son . . . has been called up to do. I am hoping that favourable consideration will be given to this case. 
My eldest son . . . served in Vietnam . . . and was discharged from the Army on 1st February 1968. My second son . . . is at present stationed at Wallgrove Camp and is due for discharge on 24th December. Both these lads have had their teaching careers disrupted because of national service but I have been proud that they have served, their country. 1 do feel however that for a mother with three sons who have all been called up and two already served in the Army that consideration should be given in the case of the third son who does not wish to have his career disrupted. He has been teaching in New Guinea this year and wishes to continue to do so. 
Then she cited the case that was raised in this Parliament by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  in connection wilh twin sons who would have been called upon to serve in the Army. Here is a family where two sons have already served in the Army and a third son has been selected out of  the ballot, has now reported and has passed his medical examination to become a national service trainee. As he has been called up and had to report on 1st February, I urgently contacted the Minister again' as he had acknowledged the letter but no decision had been given. On 29th January I. received a telegram from the Minister for Labour and National Service in which he stated: 
Ref representations ' . . . concerning call up of . . . son ... . for national service train-' ing. The call up of .brothers, and only sons for national service has been given a good deal of consideration. As the liability to register and render service is on the individual and not the. family there can be no question of exemption for men because a brother has already been called up to render service. 
However provision has been made for cases in which hardship may arise as a result of call up. Should  Mr .  . .consider that call up will cause hardship to himself, his parents or dependants, if any, he should report to the national service registration office in' Sydney on Tuesday, 2nd February and make application for deferment  of call up on grounds of exceptional hardship. If he does this call up may. be deferred pending hearing of his hardship application. 
In the absence of such an application . . . who was granted deferment as a student and then to be qualified as a teacher  but  who is no longer eligible for  such  deferment and has been passed fit for service should report for duty as required. 1 shall follow this advice with a letter to explain the Government's policy in mors detail. 
As yet I have not received the letter. A principle is involved here. Here is a family with 3 sons, all of whom have registered and have evidently become liable for national service. Two have already served, one in Vietnam. The other might also have done so, but he has been discharged. I consider that there should be automatic exemption in cases of this nature. All of these boys have risked their lives and could easily have been amongst the 390 killed or 2,900 wounded in action in Vietnam according to the figures given a moment ago by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I believe that there should not be any necessity to apply for examption in a case where 3 boys are concerned. After all, the ballot is a loaded one and there is no overall obligation in respect of these matters. The mother quite rightly has stated that a contribution of 2 sons .to the armed Services already is a great contribution to the salvation of the nation. Those of us on this side' of politics think that none of these boys should be in. the forces under the conscription proposals. lt is amazing that at this stage when the Americans are pulling out thousands from Vietnam, when  President  Nixon has said that all Americans will be out within a ve'ry short time, 3 sons from this ohe family 'in Australia have been called up to serve in the armed forces and possibly to serve in Vietnam. 1 do not think it should be necessary for a case such as this to go before a magistrate or anyone else. There should be provision for exemption in cases like this. I ask the Minister, if he has not already done so, to take appropriate action in this regard. Personally I can see no purpose in explaining to the lady the circumstances of the case. Who knows whether the magistrate will consider that it is a hardship because 3 sons are involved or because the third son is undergoing- a course of training or is teaching. To 'all intents and purposes the boy concerned may  have to follow the pattern of his brothers. The mother has made a reasonable request; I think it is sound. 
The principle of equality of sacrifice is involved and I believe that a family with 2 sons in the forces already has made a major contribution. I bring this matter publicly to the Ministers attention and ask him to intervene in this case in order to protect this family and others who may be involved. I believe that this case merits not only sympathetic consideration but also that justice demands that an exemption should be granted without the formality of applying on the ground of hardship or for other reasons. 1 ask the Minister to look into the matter and to take appropriate action urgently as the serviceman concerned has already registered and been passed as medically fit and might end up in Vietnam unless prompt action is taken. 
I wish to address the House tonight on a subject that has become one of the menaces of our time. I refer to aircraft noise. I wish to refer particularly to a statement made by the Minister for Civil Aviation about the anticipated noise nuisance at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport in 1976. Recently the Minister issued a Press statement as well as a noise exposure forecast in connection with Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and its surrounding areas. I could net help but think at the time - I am not being personal - that the Minister showed a complete lack of knowledge of the sufferings of the people of the residential areas around Sydney airport. Had the Minister lived anywhere in that area he would never have made the complacent statement about air craft noise in the future that he incorporated in the Press release to which I have referred as well as the Press release he gave in reply to a request by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Askin,  for some relief from this problem. One of the Minister's Press releases was in the following terms: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation today released details of the current noise nuisance levels at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, together with the latest estimates of the noise nuisance levels for 1976. 

 Senator Cotton said a comparison between the 2 showed that in spite of the increased traffic estimated lo be using Sydney by 1976, the actual rise in noise nuisance levels was expected to be virtually insignificant. 
He said that the actual rise would be 'virtually insignificant'. That means that people in those districts will have to live at least with the level of aircraft noise obtaining at this time and there is to be no relief from the noise nuisance. The Minister said that by 1976 there will not be any significant increase. I wonder if he realises the suffering aged people undergo in homes in Leichhardt, such as those run by the Reverend Hawkins, caused by aircraft which fly overhead during the day and the night. The curfew is not enforced as much as it should be. As the aircraft zoom in the noise in those homes is shattering. 
Over the Christmas period the Minister did not think twice about seeing that those people who were holidaying were accommodated irrespective of the effect on the people who lived in districts surrounding the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, and planes were permitted to fly outside the curfew hours. The Minister stated that there will be no significant increase but what I want to know is: What is he doing to relieve undue noise at this time? I understand that he gave instructions, or that instructions were given, that aircraft were not to use flight paths over residential areas except in exceptional circumstances or for safety reasons. I will go so far as to say that those instructions have been completely disregarded. I would say the use of the flight path that comes in over Leichhardt, Annandale, Petersham, Dulwich Hill, Sydenham and St Peters undoubtedly has been increased in more recent months. I would like to know precisely what the Minister intends to do or what he has done about this matter. I have not sufficient time to read the whole of the statement, but it went on: 
  Senator Cotton  added that the information 
It is easy to see that the honourable member does not live near the Sydney airport. The statement reads: 

 Senator Cotton added that the information currently available indicated that Sydney, an ideally situated major airport, could continue to -make a significant contribution to the efficient transportation of international and domestic passengers, mails and freight. 
That means that he will not release the report which I understand he has been given in respect of the siting of future aerodromes in Australia. The fact of the matter is that he will leave the aerodrome at Mascot forever. He does not care at all about the sufferings of the people who live in that district. He thinks it is really an ideal site. I was so impressed by his enthusiasm for the Kingsford-Smith site that I extended by telegram an invitation to the Minister to come and live for a few days under the flight path in the electorate of Grayndler. I will be prepared to provide him With first class free accommodation. He will not use the bed much at night because he will not be able to sleep. Should he accept my invitation he will be able to judge at first hand whether Mascot is an ideal site. I suppose it is all very well for a person who lives at Oberon, where I suppose very few have ever seen an aeroplane, to tell people who live within 100 yards of Kingsford-Smith that everything in the garden is lovely, particularly when these aircraft fly over their homes at 2 o'clock or 3 o'clock in the morning. I wonder if the Minister will tell me whether he accepts my invitation. As I say. I guarantee him that he will be most cordially welcome and I am prepared to provide numerous people to give him the real facts at first hand. He will have plenty of time to see those people because, as I said, he will not be able to sleep much at night. When he sees deputations in the middle of the night and his replies are interrupted as aircraft zoom over the district he may realise that something must be done before 1976! 
I hope that the Minister will accept my offer. 1 hope that he will see that he cannot leave Kingsford-Smith where it is as the major airport for all time. I hope that effective action will be taken by the Govern ment to put the major airport in the electorate of Robertson or in some other place well out in country districts. I understand, for instance, that in the electorate of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  there are areas which would take an aerodrome. Perhaps it could be situated nt Dubbo or some other country district. But for the Minister to continue to say these things and do nothing about the matter is something that cannot be tolerated. Even the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Askin,  was so moved that he approached his Liberal colleague on the matter. He must have been desperate to have asked the Liberal Government here for anything because he does that sort of thing only in desperate circumstances. But even he was moved to ask whether something could be done. He got the kind of reply that was given here.  Senator Cotton  in an interview later in -Melbourne on the question of aerodromes said, as he smoked his pipe congenially, that people who lived near aerodromes would have , to put up with the noise, that we cannot shift aerodromes, that people must fly and . consequently those living nearby are unlucky. 
That reply is on the level of a famous statement by a Liberal member at about the time of the last Federal election and which put a- couple of my colleagues into this Parliament. That former Liberal member said that if people 'live near pig sties they cannot object to the stink. That is what he said about the people living near the aerodrome in Sydney. This is precisely what the present Minister is saying - in more delicate terms, 'of course, in respect of these people who, 'many years before aerodromes were the noise menace they are today, bought land at great expense and established homes on that land. 
The point I make is.,:this: the Government through its Minister is dithering along. Why do not pilots coming into the Kingsford-Smith aerodrome use the flight path over Botany Bay? Why do not they use that flight path and . the landing strip provided instead of coming in on the flight path over thickly populated areas including those which I represent and also some of my colleagues? It is all very well to say that these things cannot be done. I understand that there is some specialised equipment that could be obtained to enable the flight path over Botany Bay .and the strip there to be used constantly. But this is not done. The Minister complacently issues these statements and I presume he has forgotten about the matter.  1  cannot continue this campaign indefinitely because my filing cabinets cannot hold the complaints. I was going to bring them into the chamber tonight but they are almost too heavy to carry. My colleague, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  knows full well the circumstances of the situation, 'as do other honourable members in surrounding, districts such as the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison).  These honourable members know from the numerous complaints they receive what the people in their electorates have to suffer. 
Let me be quite honest about this. The people who live under the flight paths are not exactly laughing their heads off when a Minister who lives in the middle of the country tells them that they have to put up with the noise because people have to fly. I say that the curfew on flying hours should be enforced without any exception whatever. 1 can see no reason why, because some people at Christmas time want to get away and enjoy themselves, people in the electorate of Grayndler have to stay awake all night, not to see the holiday makers off but to hear them go and to wish them good luck. These things are completely beyond my comprehension. As to the suffering of these people I fear that unless we continue to press this matter in the Parliament the authorities will do as they did at Tullamarine and lift the curfew as was suggested tonight by one honourable member who has probably never seen an aerodrome or certainly never lived near one. 
I mention this matter tonight in order that the Minister will see that the statements he has made are not in the interests of the people and show a disregard for what has to be done in this matter. I again extend my invitation to him to be my guest under the flight path anywhere in the electorate of Grayndler so that he can judge for himself at first hand how the people in that district are suffering. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. House adjourned at  10.59 p.m. 
I address a question to the Minister for Immigration. I refer to the Minister's statement which indicated a reduction of about 10,000 in this year's immigration target. Will the Minister state in what areas of migration the reduction will be effective and whether it will cause the breaking of any arrangements that have been made already with migrants overseas? Is it also a fact that the number of unassisted migrants has fallen? If so, what is the reason for this decline? What is the estimated saving in the cost of the  immigration programme this financial year as a result in the reduction of numbers? In view of the reduction this year is it to be taken that the Government proposes drastically to curtail the immigration programme for the year 1971-72? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many non-European students, other than private students, are in Australia at this date. 
What are (a) their nationalities and (b) the details of courses being studied. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the number of existing Boards and Committees which have been established - 
under parliamentary authority, and 
by the Government. 
What are the (a) names, (b) salaries and (c) terms of office of the Members of these Boards and Committees. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the nature and purpose of the Special Projects Fund administered by the Australian Council for the Arts. 
ls the administration of the Fund left te the discretion of the Council or is it given specific guidelines on how the money is to be dispersed. 
What are the requirements which the Council looks for when assessing requests for assistance from the Fund. 
When was the Fund established, and what amounts have been allocated to it each year since its establishment. 
How many applications for assistance from the Fund have been received to date. 
What are the names of these applicants. 
How many of these applications were (a) approved and (b) rejected. 
What is the name of each applicant who has received a grant from the Fund and what was (a) the amount of the grant and (b) the project for which the grant was made in each case. 
What are (a) the names and qualifications of the members of the Austraiian Council for the Arts and (b) the salaries and allowances and expenses paid to each member. 
asked  the Minister for Immigration,  upon  notice: 
How many persons were deponed from Australia in each of the last 5 years? 
What was the: 
nationality of the person; and 
reason for the deportation in each case. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many non-European migrants have been granted naturalisation in each year since March 1966 and what is the total to date? 
asked the Minister  for  Immigration, upon notice: 
How many persons in the United Kingdom have: 
applied  for  and 
been granted second assisted passages since the Inception of the scheme. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many migrants have been naturalised in each of the past five years. 
How many migrants eligible for citizenship have not applied for naturalisation to date. 
What are the numbers of each nationality who have not so applied. 
I do not wish to detain the House for any great length of time, but I am prompted to rise in this debate because of the speech of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  He went to great lengths to repeat the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in respect of this measure. Undoubtedly that was the most substantial portion of his contribution to the debate. He purposely waited, believing himself to be the last honourable member to speak in this debate, hoping that no-one on this side of the chamber would reply to his misrepresentations and the bitter attack he made on the Labor Party.  His  attack was directed particularly to those of us who represent city electorates and have spoken in this debate. I have always resented the way that the honourable member has referred to city people during debates that concern the primary industries, as does this Bill, the Loan (Australian Wheat Board) Bill 1971. When all is said and done, if the people in my electorate did not eat products made from wheat many more farmers would have gone broke a long time ago. The people who live in the important city electorates are entitled to speak on issues such as that dealt with by this Bill. The honourable member for Mallee is not a wheat grower. He is an auctioneer, and not a very good one. The fact of the matter is that he rises in this chamber to attack the people- 
asked the .Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many non-Europeans' have been admitted to Australia for residence in each year since 1966. 
What was the total number 'admitted during this period. ' ' 
What was their (a) nationality; and (b) profession or trade. 
In the brief time at my disposal today I want to say a few words on the unseemly and sordid display of Government disunity that has been exposed publicly in the last few weeks in the Liberal Party and the Country Party. Even at this stage we have a Ministry that is half a Ministry. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  for reasons that I will explain, is afraid to announce the Ministry. I believe that the members of the public are entitled to know what is going on in the Liberal Party and the machinations that are occurring at a time when this nation needs stability and leadership. 
The Prime Minister has delayed, evidently deliberately, announcing his new Ministry until such time as this Parliament is in recess. There are reasons why he has done that. He knows that immediately it is announced there undoubtedly will be another rebellion in the ranks of the Liberal Party. As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  last week and all this week Ministers have been staggering around this place in a trance, uninterested, not caring what is -going on and with half of them not knowing how long they will be in the Ministry. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is at the table, has hardly looked up in the last week, because he is one of the threatened personnel. 
What I am speaking about is not a joke. I noticed the following headline in the Daily Mirror' of 11th March: 'PM Wields Axe'. These Ministers are threatened men. They are walking around, not knowing whether to please, to smile, to work or what to do. There is a long list of them. They may well joint the long list of ex-Ministers "in this Parliament who almost outnumber -the people who are on the front bench. Let me tell the House who those in the Ministry who are threatened at this time are. In fact I was told last night by a Government supporter that only 6 people are certain to be in the Ministry when it is announced, and they are the 5 Country Party Ministers and the Prime Minister. So, one can understand how startled the others are. Consequently, government has gone by the Board. So uninterested and disturbed have members of the Liberal Party been this week that they could not bring forward much legislation or put forward any speakers. 
Let us have a look at the threatened men in the Government. I am told that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  may be departing from the Ministry shortly, as may be the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  the Minister for Works and Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities  (Senator Wright),  the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen),  the Minister for Social Services, the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  I cannot say that I will be sorry to see them go, because those would be very desirable changes. That brings me back to the point I mentioned before, namely, that no member of the Liberal Party, except the Prime Minister, is certain to remain in the Ministry. It is interesting to look at some of the prospects for replacements. For instance, there is the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who said that he would not serve under the previous Prime Minister 'even in the lowly position of  Deputy  Government Whip'. He has gone around all the week with a smile on his face like a deep sea mullet because he is nearly in the Ministry - or so he thinks. 
Consequently, this week government has gone by the board. Is it not dreadful that with men dying in Vietnam, pensioners in this country practically starving and the economy gone to ruin, so we are told, Ministers are not interested in any of those matters; they are only interested in whether they will survive? Of course, everybody in the Government ought to be worried at this time. One has only to look at who is the new  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party to be worried. Last week, in a shuttle service of musical chairs and a comedy that would have done credit to Laurel and Hardy in other circumstances, the then Prime Minister went out one political door and in came another one. They changed places. Imagine what would have been said on the other side of the Parliament if that had happened on this side. What would the 'paper you can trust' have said if that had occurred in the Labor Party? When it happens on the other side it is said to be unity. 
When the former Prime Minister took the position of Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party, I paused to wonder why he would do that. I said: 'Has not he any pride?' Then I said: 'He is almost arrogantly proud, so it is not a question of his not having any pride in this case'. I thought that financial considerations might have come into it. Then I said 'He is a man who, no doubt, could earn a good income in any walk of life'. When we put those 2 things aside, there is only one reason why the former Prime Minister now sits at the elbow of the present Prime Minister. He is there for destruction. And why should not he be? He sits where the knife was held by the present Prime Minister. Under his very seat is the stiletto that put the present Prime Minister where he is. 
If the former Prime Minister goes into the office of the former Minister for Defence he will find that in the top right hand drawer there are 33 knives, all of different lengths. He can take any one he wants and any old time it can go right into the back of the man who has replaced him. I would not blame him for doing that, because that is how the present Prime Minister got the job. He sat there; the knives were produced; then under the cloak of a secret ballot and in the dead of night, as it were, the 33 knives were produced and stabbed the then Prime Minister. So I say good luck to the former Prime Minister on his voyage of destruction of this Government and good luck to him in carrying out the task which no doubt the present Prime Minister carried out very surreptitiously. 
I thought it was one of the jokes of the age when I heard that the present Prime Minister was so detached from what was going on. We all know that he is a retiring man, is never in any intrigue and did not ever want the job. It was thrust upon him. That is what we are told, again by the 'paper you can trust'. Is it any wonder, therefore, that the present Prime Minister is worried about what will happen in his Ministry, when the former Prime Minister has taken his place there for the reasons I have mentioned? The members of the public are entitled to be told these things. They are entitled to know the setup of the present Administration. 
Let us have a look at the members of the Country Party. They sit over there. What they said about the present Prime Minister a few months ago could not be printed, unless they said it in Parliament, because it would be libellous. As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - I do not say this in any derogatory sense because you are a member of that Party - members of the Country Party consigned him to the abattoirs at one stage and said that they did not want him around at all. Do not let them say that it was only the former  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the Country Party who said that. The present Leader of the Country Party was one who said that he would walk out of the Ministry with the then  Deputy  Prime Minister if the Liberal Party was to support the man who now leads this nation in the position of Prime Minister. This is an amazing about face. I wonder what has happened to the great spirit of the fighters in the Country Party, if they were ever there. What would their forebears think of this reversal of form. As one looks across to the other side of the House and sees what the Liberal Party has to offer in respect of these matters one can see how these machinations must be exposed. 
To get back to my original theme, nobody knows what the Ministry of this country is and nobody knows what is going on in the mind of the Prime Minister regarding who will govern the country; but everybody understands that under the present set-up of the Liberal Party there is destruction and ruin for the present Prime Minister because he cannot trust the men about him. Everybody knows Ministers come and go according to the whims of the Prime Minister, like trains at Central Station on a Sunday night. The Government almost needs a special back bench for ex-Ministers. Scattered all over the world in all kinds of jobs are ex-Ministers who disappeared, and 'the man who must smile the most at this is  His Excellency  the Governor-General who does not know who is going to turn up from day to day as Leader of the Liberal Party, but he knows he should have had the job himself. This is the situation among the members of the Government and that is why I rose today to expose it. I think we have a high society government now and a low political one. All the women's magazines tell us what has happened in the Liberal Party. The Prime Minister has been exposed in many ways in the Press about the contribution he will make to the high society columns and things of that nature. But this does not run a country, this does not save soldiers in Vietnam and it will not save the Prime Minister from the destruction that will come from within. Today I place on record my condemnation of a Prime Minister who will not announce his Ministry, of Ministers who are uninterested, of those who are seeking only personal power irrespective of its effect on the nation. I also express my sadness - I say it more in sorrow than in anger - at the public display of sordid intrigue, bitterness and hatred in this once great Party, if I may coin a phrase. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many persons in the following age groups received assisted passages from the United Kingdom during the last 12 months:  61-65; 66-70; 71-75; 76-80; 81-85; 86-90; and 90 and over? 
-by leave- I wish to join in the welcome to the new Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  I listened with interest to the announcement of his appointment. We on this side of the House are becoming almost dizzy from the changes in those appointed to this important position on the other side of the Parliament. We do not know from day to day how long the Minister announced by the Liberals to be in charge of the proceedings of this Parliament will remain in that position. Not long ago we had the former Minister for Air. 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I bring up the Committee's report on proposals for variations of the plan of the layout of the city of Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory as gazetted in 1925 - the forty-seventh series of variations. I ask leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I have never heard such a lot of humbug from Uncle Charlie in my life. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.7 a.m. (Thursday) 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that Australian military forces are said to be in Vietnam and men are conscripted for service so that there may be free elections in South Vietnam and so that the people of South Vietnam may have the government of their choice? If so, is it also a fact that every Australian citizen is entitled to the same rights in the election of his or her government? If so, will the Prime Minister state whether consideration has been given to sending military forces north to ensure that Queenslanders enjoy the same rights as the South Vietnamese, having regard to the attempt by the Country Party Premier of Queensland to introduce in that State the greatest electoral gerrymander in the world? 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a secondtime. 

 Mr Speaker, speaking in the Parliament on 20th April 1961 the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said:   the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides the fabric of Australia's democracy. Nothing is more vital to the working of a democracy than the mechanism by which the parliament is elected. 
This statement expresses the basic principles of a democratic society, that there should be free elections and that those elections should reflect the will of the majority. However, it is true to say that gerrymandering of electoral boundaries, voting systems and the position of candidates' names on the ballot paper have a great influence on the election result and can defeat the majority view, irrespective of the will of the people or the policy of the candidates. This Bill seeks to preserve the basis of democratic elections by ensuring that those elected individually or as a government shall reflect the wishes of the majority. Its purpose is not designed for the advantages of any party or individual but, by an amendment of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, to provide for a truly democratic election to the House of Representatives. 
The Bill provides for three major amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Firstly, it incorporates the principle of one vote one value; secondly, it introduces the first past the post voting system; and thirdly, it provides that the order of candidates' names on the ballot paper shall be decided by ballot. The amendments apply only to elections for the House of Representatives. This is not to be taken that the Opposition considers that other sections of the Act, particularly those referring to Senate voting, postal and absentee voting, etc., are perfect. Indeed, this is far from the case. 
The fact of the matter is that the Commonwealth Electoral Act is outdated and outmoded. This applies not only to the actual drafting of the Act but also to many of its provisions. To amend it completely, both for Senate and House of Representatives elections, is a major undertaking. On the election of a Labour government next year immediate steps will be taken to redraft the Electoral Act to meet the changing needs of our time and to bring it into line with what has been found necessary in other. fields of national legislation. Pending this review of the Act, the Opposition proposes these three major amendments as the basis on which a democratic vote may be registered by the people of Australia in the election of their government. 
I now outline the major provisions of the Bill. Clause 3 amends section 18. of the principal Act by substituting the words people of for. the words 'electors of in ascertaining a quota for each State. This means that electorate quotas will be determined on the basis of population and not only on those qualified to vote. This is a major departure from the present method and is basic to the principle of providing equality of representation on a population basis or a one vote one value basis. Clause 4 repeals section 19 of the principal Act which deals with 'matters to be considered in distribution of a State', and includes a new clause which substitutes the word people' for 'electors' and a one-tenth instead of a one-fifth variation in regard to the quota for determining electoral boundaries. It deletes from the original Act the following provision in section 19 (2.)  . . . with special reference to disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance;  . . the density or sparsity of population of the Division; the area of the Division', as it no longer applies. These amendments will as far as possible give effect to the principal of one vote one value, with which I will deal in the time available to me at the Committee stage. 
Clause 5 of the Bill gives effect to a consequential amendment to clause 25 of the principal Act, following the new basis of distribution, namely, 'people' instead of electors'. Clause 6 amends section 5 of the principal Act to provide for a redistribution when more than one-fourth of divisions vary to a greater extent than onetenth more or one-tenth less, instead of one-fifth as shown in the present Act. The reason for this is to provide the basis as to when distributions should take place, and the one-tenth variation is in accordance with a decision of the all party Joint Select Committee on Constitutional Review. Clause 7 is a machinery amendment to section 76 of the principal Act and it relates to the abolition of preferential voting. Clause 8 amends section 106 of the principal Act to provide for the second major amendment, namely, a draw for positions of candidates' names on ballot papers. 
Clause 9 makes a major amendment to section 124 of the principal Act, providing for the marking of ballot papers on the first past the post voting system or, in other words, for the abolition of preferential voting. Clauses 10, 11 and 12 amend sections 133, 136 and 181a of the principal Act, being complementary to the introduction of first past the post voting under clause 9, and provide for informal votes, for the candidate with the highest number of votes to be elected and for the casting vote of the divisional returning officer to be made in the event of candidates receiving an equal number of votes. 
Clause 13 amends the schedule to the principal Act by substituting the following for the present wording: 
Mark your vote on this ballot-paper by placing the number 1 in the square opposite the name of the candidate for whom you vote. Do not vote for more than one candidate. 
The reason for the use of the figure T instead of 'X' is to avoid confusion with Senate voting at this time when figures must be used. This new Act will come into operation on the day on which it receives royal assent. 
I now deal with the question of the first major proposal in the Bill, namely, one vote one value. This incorporates 2 important changes from the present Act, namely, that population and not electors shall be the basis for the quota and that divisions shall be as nearly as possible equal in population. The Government mainly at the dictation of the Australian Country Party, as exemplified in Queensland only yesterday, has consistently opposed this principle, and in 196S amended section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act to provide for the following: 
In making any proposed distribution of a State into divisions, the Distribution Commissioners shall so determine the proposed divisions that each division contains a number of electors not exceeding, or falling short of, the quota of electors by more than one-fifth of the quota. 
It also inserted other provisions that the Distribution Commissioners had to take into consideration in making any proposed dis tribution of a State into divisions. The subsequent redistribution of electorates in 1968 provided a striking illustration of the effect of these amendments, the disparity in electorate population and voting power and the complete negation of the principle of one vote one value. 
In the brief time available I want to quote a few examples for the benefit of this House. The division under the 1968 redistribution with the largest number of electors - not population - was Grayndler, my own seat, with 60,205 and the division with the smallest number was Darling, New South Wales, with 43,224  -  a difference of 39.3 per cent or 16,981 voters. If Darling is disregarded as being . exceptional the division with the smallest number of electors is Riverina with 45,368  -  a difference of 32.7 per cent or 14,837 voters as compared to Grayndler. Similarly in Victoria the electorate of Wills had 58,231 voters and the electorate of Mallee had 45,218  -  and that is plenty for that honourable member to look after - which is a variation of 12,995 electors or 28.7 per cent. In Queensland the electorate of Griffith hari 58,668 voters compared with 41,609 voters in Kennedy, a variation of 17,059 electors or 41 per cent. Similar examples are available in every State. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard details of the redistribution as given by the then Minister for the Interior in reply to a question on notice. 

<graphic href="071131197104015_18_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197104015_19_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197104015_20_2.jpg"></graphic>

The average enrolment for the divisions in each Stale as at 31st July 1970 was: 

<graphic href="071131197104015_20_3.jpg"></graphic>

The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that preliminary totals of population from the 1971 Census based on field counts will become available for States, Territories and Electoral Divisions during October 1971. Final edited totals will become available progressively by States from early 1972 following an extensive clerical and automatic data processing operation. In both cases totals for Electoral Divisions will be only close approximations due to Census boundaries not coinciding exactly with Electoral boundaries. 
Another significant factor of the 1958 redistribution is the disparity between the electors enrolled and the population of the division concerned. For instance, in New South Wales, to quote an example, they vary between 42.92 per cent in the electorate of Werriwa and 64.53 per cent in Barton. This, of course, was a comparison based on the 1966 census which are the latest figures available. The percentage of enrolment varies according to the number of residents under age or not naturalised. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard details of the percentage of the population enrolled in New  South  Wales electorates at the time of the 1966 census. 
I thank the Minister. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition and the answer given by the previous Minister showing the growth of electorates. 
Enrolments in Electoral Divisions (Question No. 1455, page 744) 
What has been the' increase or decrease in enrolment in each electoral division since the 1968 redistribution. 
What is the present enrolment in each division. 
What is the average enrolment for the divisions in each State. 
How soon after the census to be taken in June 1971 will statistics be available to show the number of the people of each State, Territory and division. 

<graphic href="071131197104015_26_10.jpg"></graphic>

The average enrolment for the divisions in each State as at 31 July 1970 was: 

<graphic href="071131197104015_28_12.jpg"></graphic>

The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that preliminary totals of population from the 1971 Census based on field counts will become available for States, Territories and Electoral Divisions during October 1971. Final edited totals will become available progressively by States from early 1972 following an extensive clerical and automatic data processing operation. In both cases totals for Electoral Divisions will be only close approximations due to Census boundaries not coinciding exactly with Electoral boundaries. 
I ask: Are these electorates to be penalised in order to appease electors in far flung areas? The Constitutional Review Committee stated that a reduction of the permissible margin from one-fifth to one-tenth would not greatly affect huge electorates. At present other factors indicate that the application of one vote one value may reduce the size of some electorates. I believe that if the whole population is included now that Aboriginals have a vote, electorates like Kalgoorlie, Kennedy and Darwin will be reduced in size under the proposal. 
The members of the Country Party ask the Parliament to believe that because a country member suffers disadvantages of distance and area the solution lies in perverting the basis of the electoral system itself. They oppose change to the present legislation because provisions inserted at their direction make it possible for a city electorate to be half as large again on a population and electorate basis as country electorates. This makes a mockery of our pretensions to a truly democratic system. In a democratic society there can be no justification for a country storekeeper, a rural worker or an office worker having more value in his vote than city persons in the same category have. All people have equal democratic rights and they should be treated accordingly in electoral redistribution. 
The answer to the far flung country electorate is not to pervert the electoral system by making the vote of country people two or three times more valuable than the vote of metropolitan dwellers or to give them a weighted vote but rather to provide their representatives with greater facilities, travel allowances, staff, etc. to enable them to carry out their parliamentary work. This is an attitude that was remarked on by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  when speaking on the Electoral Bill on 25th September 1968. He said: 
A bigger Parliament working through committees would be a more efficient Parliament. It may be that the defect to which the Minister referred could be remedied if rural members had more travel allowances to enable them to use aircraft more than they do now. So there are remedies to the problem. 
He went on to say: 
I suppose the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  and the honourable member for Lyne represent a great variety of interests. I should think you could enumerate them as cows, cows, cows. But in urban electorates such as my electorate of Bradfield one has to represent people as various as manufacturers, importers, people with commercial interests and people with financial interests. Plainly the Minister's argument- that is a Country Party Minister -   . . will not hold water. 
Only the Country Party will wholeheartedly support the principle of rural weighing, giving country voters a louder voice in the election of Parliament and Government than their numbers warrant. Members of the Country Party have a vested interest in doing so because the present system allows their Party, which on only one occasion has received more than 10 per cent of the votes, to dominate the Government and to gain rewards well beyond their entitlement in the determination of national policy. In support of this I quote an extract from Don Whitington's book 'Inside Canberra' published recently: 
The Country Parly has never polled more than 10.9 per cent of the total vote at any House of Representatives election from 1949; yet it has invariably held anything from 15 to 20 seats in a House of 124, and 6 portfolios in a Ministry of between 20 and 25. Tn short, while polling only 10 per cent of the public vote it exercises a parliamentary vote of between 16 and 17 per cent and a ministerial influence of more than 20 per cent. 
A tragic commentary on the undemocratic manner adopted to elect governments here! Why should they not support such an iniquitous, biased and undemocratic system, for on it depends their survival individually and as a Party. It is utterly wrong, however, to perpetuate this system if in the metropolitan area the difference in the population of electorates as compared with country electorates becomes so marked that Parliament is not representative of the people. That is why this undemocratic state of affairs and the system for which the Country Party fights and which it foists upon the Parliament by its ruthless use of power in the coalition must be changed. 
I want to summarise broadly the arguments I have advanced. Every worthwhile authority supports the case for one vote one value. The United States Supreme Court and the Constitutional Review Committee are just two responsible authorities worth quoting. Even the Federal Council of the Liberal Party of Australia supports this principle. The loading of electorates due to the 20 per cent variation under the Electoral Act demands redress because Parliament represents people, not acres, trees and animals. Population is the basis on which boundaries should be decided because men, women and children of all ages and all nations present as many problems as those eligible to vote. The present system gives expression to the idea that only those eligible to vote are entitled to representation. This attitude is outdated and indefensible. There can be no doubt that democracy demands that electorates should have as nearly as possible the same population and equality of voting power. 
I now wish to deal with the second major principle incorporated in this Bill, namely, first past the post voting. This will replace the present system of preferential voting as applied to elections for the House of Representatives in most States of Australia. From 1901 until 1918 representatives to the Australian Parliament were elected by the simplest of all methods, namely, the first past the post system. Electors had only to place an X against their choice on the ballot paper. On 4th October 1918 the Minister for Home and Territories, Patrick McMahon Glynn - a good name- -a member of the Hughes Nationalist Government, introduced a Bill providing for preferential voting as we know it today. Contrary to some points of view expressed, it was opposed by the Labor Party led by  Mr Tudor,  the final vote being 37 ayes, 10 noes and numerous pairs. In the course of his speech  Mr Glynn  said: 
The preferential system if honestly applied provides a remedy for a party split . . . 
He has been proved pretty wrong. The statement continues: 
. gives the result of a second poll of the same voters and scope for the expression of wider electoral opinion than any Caucus can give since it enables all the electorate to hear before giving Party support to a candidate. 
It was also said that it would give an absolute majority to the candidate elected.  Mr Glynn  finished with this fine phrase - and I read it for the benefit of the Minister, the members of the Country Party and those Liberals who call themselves democrats: 
It is for us lo provide the machinery that may make the legislature, wilh at time some inevitable defects of focus, the mirror of the nation's mind. 
How far they have departed from that principle! The principal arguments advanced in support of preferential voting are, firstly, that it ensures that only a candidate who polls a majority of votes - that is more than 50 per cent - is elected, thus reflecting the majority view and, secondly, that it gives a voter the exercise of a preference or second choice on the basis that voters are concerned with who will actually win, even if their first choice is rejected. On the first point this question might be asked: What constitutes a majority? Does it mean half the number of votes plus one or a majority for any of the candidates contesting the election? This could be argued indefinitely, logically or otherwise, according to a person's point of view. The real reason for the change, however, is best summed up in the 'Australian Encyclopaedia', volume III. Referring to preferential voting, it states:   . . experience has shown that the system so applied permits the development of strong third parties and indeed the adoption of the alternative vote in Australia has been largely due to the pressure of the Country Party for a method by which they could contest elections against older non-Labor parties without running the risk of putting the Labor Party into office. 
Preferential voting has assisted both the Liberal and Country Parties to put up rival candidates without splitting the vote and losing the seats to a common enemy. On the second point, it is questionable whether the preferential voting is a true expression of each elector's wishes. The Party machine dictates the how to vote card right down to the last preference and asks the citizen to vote for its candidates according to the how to vote card prepared by the Party executive. It is a fact, however, that the system is sometimes credited with virtues it does not possess. For instance, it may ensure that a constituency will elect a member with a majority of the final votes, but it does not ensure that the Party with the overall majority of the votes will obtain a majority of the seats. 
In  1961  the Labor Party polled  2,534,640  votes, or  46.76  per cent of the votes, and in  1969  polled  2,870,792,  or  46.95  per cent of the votes, in both cases having a clear majority over the combined totals of the present Government Parties, but was defeated in the elections. In the recent State election in New South Wales under this system the Labor Party gained a majority of  70,000  votes over the Liberals but is still out of office. Had first past the post voting been in force in the Commonwealth sphere in  1961  democracy would have been served by the election of a Labor government with a majority of  8  instead of a minority of one. In the present Parliament, if a first past the post system had been in force at the  1969  elections Labor would hold  70  seats, or a majority of  15  over its opponents, instead of a minority of  7.  No more striking examples could be given of the need for a change. J ask leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard documents prepared by the Legislative Research Service, being a summary of Federal elections since  1958  under the preferential and first past the post systems. 
I wonder whether the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  would tell the House what has been taken out of the present Bill and what is proposed to be inserted in the new Bill, and whether there will be any marked changes from the Bill that was presented to Parliament and which was nol. proceeded with because the Government fell that it would not pass the House. I think the Opposition is entitled to know what changes are contemplated at this stage, as the Bill is a particularly interesting one. lt is evident that the original Bit.1 was drafted without very much thought on the part of the Government and there is more than a passing interest in the terms of the new Bill. Without predicting anything, unless the new Bill is a big improvement on the old, I do not envisage much belter prospects for it than for the one that is being withdrawn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, as some members opposite have said, this debate is concerned with sales of wheat to Red China. 
Motion (by  Mr  Giles) agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration. Is it a fact that members of the Japanese Government economic mission in Perth recently indicated that the future of Japanese investment in Australia's development of raw materials and industry may depend to a great extent on Australian immigration policies? If so, what demands or requests did the Japanese make in regard to the admittance of Japanese workers or personnel and what has been the Government's reaction? Will the Minister also indicate the policy of the Japanese Government in relation to the admittance of Australian citizens on a permanent or temporary basis? Furthermore, in view of the Government's efforts to increase trade with mainland China and the loss of the wheat sales due to nonrecognition of China, does the Minister consider that requests may also be made for increased Chinese migration as the basis on which that country will conduct negotiations? If so, what attitude will the Government take in regard to requests of this nature from mainland China or any other nation similarly placed? 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present the Committee's report on Sunday observance in the Australian Capital Territory. I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with that report. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have moved this motion arising out of the refusal by a certain honourable member in this House to allow me to make a statement on immigration. I say at this stage that I have been grievously misrepresented and in the eyes of the Australian people I have been placed in a very unfortunate position, having been classified as racist in character. In the interests of my Party I have kept this matter confined within the bounds of our organisation. To that extent I believe it should never have been uttered in public. In the face of great provocation I have had nothing to say publicly on this matter. But I can hardly remain silent today when again I am publicly misrepresented in respect of our immigration policy. Honourable members on both sides of the Parliament know that I was the author of the policy that exists in the Australian Labor Party platform today. In my hand I have the documents. I was Vice-Chairman of the Committee that wrote the policy. 
I have been represented in the eyes of the Australian people as having misinterpreted or not knowing our immigration policy. This is something that no man of my standing in this Parliament can tolerate. I was here when that policy was first introduced. What position would this Parliament place me in as a member if I did not ask leave to make a statement today to explain my attitude? My electorate would be entitled to think that I was lying about the policy of the Australian Labor Party. After almost 40 years membership of that party I think that I am entitled to say that I should know its policies. I do not wish to criticise anyone on either side in this debate. All I want is the right to put my case. That is why I have moved the motion. I say it is regrettable that after some have seen fit to raise this matter, and newspapers and the Australian Labor Party's Conference have been quoted, I should be denied the right by my own side to put my case in the Parliament. This is incomprehensible.  Mr Speaker,  whatever the penalty might be to me I will vote to see that I am heard in this Parliament today. I formally moved the motion because I believed as a member of this Parliament I was entitled to do so. Above all, I am entitled to state what the Austraiian Labor Party's policy is and not what some people think it ought to be. 
That the motion be agreed to. 
The Leader of the Opposition would have the right to speak now. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to speak against the amendment. I shall be brief because I do not want to go over what I have said. This morning I was incriminated in a certain statement in this place. I asked a simple question - the right to explain my position, nothing more nor less. To do that I had to explain the policy I interpreted. That right was refused me. Now I am in the position where some members seek to get out from underneath what has been done to me by taking on some other issue. I am quite prepared to hear and debate a statement on immigration but I am not having it tied up with the question of me answering a charge that has been made against me in this Parliament this morning. Let us divorce the two issues. Let the Minister make his statement and let us debate it. But at this stage I ask support for the motion I have moved. 
Amendment negatived. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Speaker, I thank the House for the opportunity to make a statement on a matter that has become of great personal interest to me in particular and one that is of great importance to the Australian public - that is the immigration policy of the Australian Labor Party. My views on it have been misinterpreted after a silence of 5 years since this aspect of the policy was introduced in 1966 I seek to explain not only my interpretation of the policy but what the policy is accepted to be and has been stated by me to be in this Parliament over the years. Firstly, let me say that in the 1963 Conference of the Australian Labor Party a resolution was passed which stated: 
Conference directs the Federal Executive to set up a committee of 4 members of the Federal Executive and 4 members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party for the purpose of consultation with representatives of the ACTU and the AWU in order to bring before the next Conference a recommendation on the Party's migration policy. 
The members from the Federal Executive on that committee were: Honourable R. W. Holt, Ll.B., Victoria;  Mr C.  T. Oliver, New South Wales; and  Mr F.  E. Chamberlain and  Mr D.  Dunstan, M.P. The Federal Parliamentary Labor Party members were  Mr Frank  Stewart, M.P.,  Mr F.  Daly, M.P.,  Mr F.  Collard, M.P., and  Senator J.  Fitzgerald. The first meeting of that Committee was held on 7th August 1964. The agenda is available for all to see. It set out the procedure to be followed. The Committee subsequently met.  Mr Chamberlain  submitted a motion for discussion and  Mr 
Oliver submitted a motion for discussion. But arising out of the meeting of that Committee I was designated to write a policy in support of the established immigration policy of the Australian Labor Party as we knew it at that time. Other members were delegated to assist in that respect. That was the basis on which the policy was formed. On 10th May 1965 I received a letter from  Mr Wyndham,  the then Secretary, in which he said: 
To: All Members of the Immigration Committee 
The House can have the papers. I present the papers formally. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to bring to your attention a matter of privilege regarding a newspaper article which appeared on 25th- 
 The House has listened to the report of the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  which has come out of a disturbance or an affair at the HMAS 'Leeuwin' training centre in Western Australia. The Minister related what he said had happened in respect to a fight. It must have been some fight, because it was  11  days before the boy could walk. Consequently, this is not exactly an idle matter. I notice that it is evidently so serious that the person concerned has been transferred to the Repatriation General Hospital at Heidelberg which is in his home State. Evidently the fight was a serious disturbance. What the Australian Labor Party is concerned with are the reports that have appeared in the Press that this was a bastardisation test or an initiation ceremony. Honourable .members on this side of the House would like an assurance that, no matter, what . the Minister might have said, this is not just a whitewashing or glossing over of what actually happened at the centre. 
I would like an assurance from the Minister some time that he will take the same action as the former Minister for the Army - now the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  - took when he cleaned up the Duntroon establishment in respect to a somewhat similar occurrence. In this matter the boy's mother is gravely disturbed by what has occurred. She said -in a Press report- that he went into the Navy with- a great deal of enthusiasm. Now she has been completely upset by, and is gravely - concerned about, what has happened. I know that the Minister for the Navy is new to his portfolio. We realise that he is endeavouring to do the right thing, but tonight we can hardly accept the fact that the situation is as placid as he might say it is. Therefore I hope that he will give us an assurance that a full and complete inquiry will be. held into all aspects of the matter. The Army, Navy and Air Force have a first class way of covering up their failings and shortcomings. There is no-one better than those concerned who can cover up in cases of this nature. They certainly would not want it to get out that it was an initiation ceremony. 
Newspaper reports I saw indicated that it was. It seems to be a strange training establishment when 3 young fellows are initiated in the establishment and suddenly there is a fight from which it takes one fellow 11 days to recover. I come from a district which has had its turbulent days but there certainly would not have been many people in that district, even in its wildest days, who took 11 days to get over a brawl. Therefore this must be a pretty serious state of affairs. If the Navy is seeking boys as recruits for enlistment for training in the Service its efforts are not helped if there is a feeling that there has been an initiation ceremony and the Government or the Department is endeavouring to cover it up. 
I remind the Minister for the Navy that I have had long experience in this Parliament. Not so long ago we had a discussion on the famous water torture case in Vietnam. The responsible Minister said in this Parliament that nothing of the kind had occurred. I understand that his adviser at that stage had more or less witnessed the torture. If that can happen in a case like that, is wool being pulled over the eyes of the Minister for the Navy in this case? Has there been an initiation ceremony? Is it the usual practice? These are matters on which the Opposition would like assurance. If the investigations by the Minister are not complete - and I hope they do not finish at the suggestion that this was a fight - I hope he will give the House an assurance that there will be a complete inquiry into this matter. If it takes a boy 11 days to recover from what has occurred, or from any initiation ceremony of this kind, there certainly is a need for a full scale inquiry. 
I say no more about the matter. Possibly the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  might wish to say a few words about it. I shall simply express again the view of the Opposition. We hope there will not be a whitewash job. If there has been some initiation ceremony we hope that the practice will be stamped out. We would like the Minister for the Navy to act as definitely as did a former Minister for the Army when the Duntroon cadet business was the news of the day. We hope the Minister is not being misled, as was the case in the water torture incident which I mentioned a few moments ago. The Army and the Navy particularly have a great way of pulling the wool over Ministers' eyes, which might be a bit of a problem in the case of the present Minister for the 
Navy, as you and I well know,  Mr Speaker.  I do not say this in a disrespectful way; it struck me on the spur of the moment. I make those submissions on behalf of the Opposition and would like an assurance from the Minister along the lines I mentioned. 
I wish to say a few words about the Ministers of State Bill 1971 and the ministerial statement on the appointment of Assistant Ministers, which are now under discussion and on which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has spoken at some length. The Ministers of State Bill provides for an increase in the number of Ministers from 26 to 27. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has stated that it is his intention to delegate a number of Assistant Ministers to support senior Ministers in their tasks. We on this side of the House are opposed to this legislation for a number of reasons, as have been stated by the Leader of the Opposition, and also for another reason. Whenever I look at the Ministry in this place and think of it being enlarged with Assistant Ministers and an extra Minister I cannot help but think of the television programme entitled 'Never Mind the Quality, Feel the Width'. That is almost precisely what this Government is asking this Parliament to do in respect of the Ministry at this time. As the Leader of the Opposition has said, no justification has been given for the appointment of an additional Minister and very little, if any, has been given for those who may be constitutionally debarred to be appointed as Assistant Ministers. 
In his second reading speech the Prime Minister stated that it was necessary to increase the Ministry from 26 to 27 in order that some of the work that has fallen onto other Ministers might be taken up and that the appointment of an extra Minister for the tasks outlined would relieve Ministers of certain obligations they have at the present time and would allow them more effectively to carry out their own duties. That may be right and it may not be. But as the Leader of the Opposition stated, there is plenty of scope to amalgamate some of the portfolios and in that way we could save considerable expense in the appointment of an additional Minister and avoid the appointment of another man to what we think is already an overloaded Ministry. No matter how you look at this one cannot escape the conclusion that the prime motive behind the appointment of another Minister at this time is to promote to the Ministry one of the supporters of the Prime Minister in the recent battle for leadership. 
Is it possible to reinstate one of the deposed Ministers? There are so many deposed Ministers on the other side that it almost requires a special back bench to accommodate them. There are now 7. Possibly from amongst that number ona is to be promoted to this new portfolio. Notwithstanding what the Prime Minister said in introducing this legislation, in our view he has introduced this legislation so as to place a friend in a position of power close to him and so keep his support or at least remove an opponent. That has to be denied, otherwise we on this side are entitled to say that is the purpose. There is no doubt that the new Minister will have a lot of work to do but there is plenty of scope for amalgamation of Ministries, as I stated, wherein the tasks to be allocated to the new Minister could be absorbed. 
Moving on to the question of the appointment of Assistant Ministers it is of interest to note the remarks of Professor Crisp who wrote an article sometime ago on an experiment of this sort by the Menzies Government, which is not a new one, as the Leader of the Opposition said. In his book entitled 'Australian National Government' Professor Crisp said: 
Experiments with Assistant Ministers and parliamentary  under-secretaries,  carried on fitfully over the years, have not proved very successful. 
Further on in that book he said: 
In general the Menzies experiment has not been encouraging. None of the three 1950 appointees ever attained Ministerial office and the two who persisted in their office both retired from Parliament after some years. 
Those honourable members on the other side who are looking forward to the future could be taking their first step to oblivion. Professor Crisp went on to say: 
The one 1952 appointee finally achieved nonCabinet Ministerial office in 1961. 
It is a long long road that has no turning, and in that case one survived. This is the incentive held out to honourable members opposite to support this Bill. I understand from the Prime Minister's statement that one of the tasks of the Assistant Ministers will be to support certain senior Ministers in the discharge of their duties. I agree on one thing: A lot of them could do with assistance and for some of them I do not think one Assistant Minister will be sufficient. I think the Prime Minister may have to delegate 2 Assistant Ministers to some of the Ministers I have in mind. What will the Assistant Ministers do? In his statement the Prime Minister said: 
As members of the Federal Executive Council, the Assistant Ministers will in general be able to exercise statutory functions of the Ministers they are assisting - including the making of' appointments . . . 
What a tremendous task for an Assistant Minister - to make an appointment; it would be a big job that day - 
. and the performance of other functions expressly conferred on the Minister - provided he has authorised them to this effect. 
If the Minister did not like the Assistant Minister appointed to him, he could sit around all day and twiddle his thumbs. Who is to choose these Assistant Ministers? If, for instance, some personality on the other side of the House was chosen to assist the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  and a few weeks ago he had helped him on the way out, it would make a farce of the situation. The Prime Minister went on to say: 
Thus Assistant Ministers will be able to make appointments and perform other functions expressly conferred on the Minister by legislation. 
In the first half of his speech the Prime Minister said only that Assistant Ministers could make appointments. It would be very difficult to convince me that a senior clerk - if one did not want to have a junior one - could not do that. The Prime Minister went on to say: 
The Assistant Ministers will be assigned to assist certain Ministers of Cabinet rank, who have the responsibility, not only of administering their own departments, but of taking part in the continuing process of consultation which is an essential feature of effective Cabinet government. By appointing Assistant Ministers in this way I see the system of Cabinet government as being strengthened through allowing senior Ministers to give more time to Cabinet business. 
Is it absolutely essential to have another section of the Ministry appointed to assist Ministers in what are their normal functions? Ministers are paid a high salary. They are given great assistance at the Public Service level. Is it necessary for them to have further assistance? If so, there is substance in the argument of the Opposition that there is a lot of incompetency amongst Government Ministers. The Prime Minister said: 
Assistant Ministers will, of course, work in accordance with the authority given to them by the Senior Minister. 
Then he said: 
I emphasise that Assistant Ministers will not be able to take political responsibility in the administration of any department. 
They will be glorified and reasonably well recompensed office boys- nothing more, nothing less. Any honourable member accepting the position should know that. The Prime Minister went on to say that during the Committee stage of a Bill it is proposed that the Assistant Ministers will sit at the table of the House. I can tell honourable members that we on this side of the House can sit at the table without having to be Assistant Ministers. But that is. one of the plums held out to honourable members opposite as to why Assistant Ministers should be appointed. In the final part of his speech the Prime Minister said: 
Numbers of those who in times past held office as Assistant Ministers were in due course elevated to full Ministerial status. 
Everybody knows that that is not correct. In the final paragraph the Prime Minister said: 
I do not intend at this stage to make specific appointments to the office of Assistant Minister. These will be left until the parliamentary recess . . . 
Every member on this side of the Parliament and the other side knows that they are not being announced because of the dissension they will cause. 
The Prime Minister is not game to announce them at this time because of the dissension that will be caused. Let us have a look at who the prospective Ministers and Assistant Ministers are. Let us look at those in the second row on the Government benches. There we have the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer),  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  and the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson).  They are ali ex-Ministers and all pretty good. They have told us so themselves over the years, as the honourable member for Moreton knows. There are 7 of them. Will one  of  them be reappointed or will they be in the unfortunate position of being not good enough to be a Minister but too good  to  be an Assistant? This could easily happen  to  those ex-Ministers. 
Consequently the Opposition wonders who amongst them will come forth. Perhaps none of them will be appointed, because we have seen the kindly eye of the Prime Minister turned towards none other than the handsome honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who has newly arrived in this Parliament. It is said that he is the chosen son  to  take his place ahead of those other 7 gentlemen who, for no reason I can see, other than inability, were discarded from the front bench on the first occasion. Then we have the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  listed amongst the prospective Ministers and Assistant Ministers. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  is one who has been smiled upon. It is said. that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  has been considered. The new honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  smiles in the expectation that he too may be chosen. Surely the Prime Minister could not overlook the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who has served in that lowly position of  Deputy  Government Whip in the face of severe opposition. Of course, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  is hoping - but we are not - that he will be in the Ministry. But what will the Prime Minister do with the hopefuls who must miss out? 
I am painting the picture of why the Assistant Ministers will not be announced now. Let us have a look at the discontented section. The young honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has been speaking a lot lately. He must think that he is somewhere down the line. Then we have the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie);  the honourable ..member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  a long serving member of this Parliament; the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  and the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who has had 2 or 3 attempts at getting into and staying in Parliament  -  a fair achievement. He has been here for a couple of years now and he should be entitled to be considered. I can see that the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  gives serious thought to his future here. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  is also making headway, we are told. Then there is the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn),  and who would overlook the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  at this late stage? Even today he supported the Government, against his better intentions; so there must be something in the wind. 

 Mr Speaker, you can see the prospects that are before you. It must frighten you as much as it does us, to see who might be chosen. The situation would not be as bad if those honourable members were better qualified. But I would say that none of them would be much good. What about the Country Party members? They must have abdicated. Quite often the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has been training in this place for ministerial rank. The honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  has prayed for success for years and now it seems that it will escape him. All of these things show that the situation opposite is not as it should be. That is why the Assistant Ministers have not been announced. To be truthful - I do not say this in a humorous vein - the members of the Ministry could be described as the misfits. Let me list them for honourable members. 
The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  is a dentist. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  is a farmer and grazier, which is a little closer. The Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  is a clergyman. I suppose one could say that for the first time we have a sky pilot in charge of the Navy. When the Government wanted a Minister for Health it appointed a barrister. Repatriation was put under the charge of a grocer and wine and spirit merchant. 
Did honourable members ever hear anything like it? With all the distinguished servicemen on the Government side - I pay tribute to them; some of them are in the Ministry - the Government appointed a barrister and solicitor as Minister for the Army. No wonder we are in trouble, with this set-up. The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  is a farmer. No wonder he is up in the air. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  is an accountant, company director and farmer. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  is a barrister and solicitor. The Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  is a university lecturer. Of course my distinguished friend at the table, the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  has had wide experience as a grazier and stud farmer. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is a farmer and grazier. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  is a company director, former bank officer and qualified economist, so I am told. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  is a farmer and grazier. To make the conflict more difficult in regard to foreign affairs, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  is a barrister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs is an economist. Is it any wonder that there is a mix-up on the Government side? We find that the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in real life is a real property valuer. In other words, he may be able to supply land, but he is not coming forward on the practical side of the situation of which he is in charge. 
If one runs through the list of misfits one sees that this situation exists right through. I do not reflect on the avocations of the gentlemen concerned, but I see the situation as being one of square pegs in round holes. Is it any wonder that the situation exemplified in the legislation before the House today will merely add to the difficulties? If honourable members think that the list I have read out was not so hot, they will be frightened by what may come about. Let us look at the Ministries. The Ministries change as often as one changes one's shirt. We have had no fewer than 14 Ministers for the Navy since 1949. We have had 9 Ministers for Civil Aviation, 7 Ministers for Shipping and Fuel, 12 Ministers for Air, 8 Ministers for External Affairs, 7 Ministers for Immigration, 9 
Ministers for Defence and 9 Ministers for the Interior. In other words, they chop and change in the Ministry. .A Minister hardly gets settled into a portfolio before he is out again, in many cases not because of his inability but because of dissension in the Liberal ranks. 
This brings me to the major point of my argument. I have pointed out those things today in order to show the real purpose behind this Bill. It is so that the Prime Minister can quell the rebellion in his ranks. There will be 27 in the Ministry and others will be appointed as Assistant Ministers and, whoopee, the new Prime Minister has got the numbers in the Caucus. He will have no trouble. Out of about 70 members, 37 will be dependent on him. He will not have the worries of the previous Prime Minister. There will be no dead heats in ballots because 27 will be with him and he wilt have the support of several Assistant Ministers. Is this not true? Is this not the reason why the Government is not announcing the Ministry today? This is the real purpose of it. 
On the more serious side, what is the Government doing for _ the Opposition while it is providing for expenses for the new Assistant Ministers, establishing a new department at great cost, and appointing another Minister at a salary of over $20,000? We on this side battle along as best we can with one or two secretaries for the whole of the Opposition. Our research is done by members themselves. This Bill is another way by which the Government is giving itself spoils. It is building up its own organisation at the expense of the public purse and is refusing at any stage to give any assistance, clerical, secretarial or otherwise, to members of the Opposition. This shows how frightened the Government is getting. It has to build up its own machine at public expense in order to stop the Opposition from taking office. It feels that by building up this machine and at the same time quelling the rebellion in its ranks it will be able to survive at the next election, whenever it may be. 

 Mr Archie Cameron, a former  Speaker  of this House, on one occasion stated in this House that it was very suspect whether or not an Assistant Minister under the provisions of the Constitution, could take any expenses for an office of profit under the Crown.  Mr Cameron,  like yourself,  Mr Speaker,  was a very distinguished personality and a very able and just man. He said in this Parliament that it was constitutionally challengeable whether those who accepted these positions of Assistant Ministers should not forfeit their places in this Parliament. I suggest that this matter should be looked at very carefully along with the other matters I mentioned a few moments ago. Instead of building up its machine, creating another portfolio and giving expenses to more Ministers, why does the Government not extend the expenses paid to members of the Opposition? Why not increase all round the allowances that should be paid to members on this side? Instead of spending money on a salary increase for one Minister in order to stop a rebellion in the Liberal ranks, why should not members on this side of the Parliament, who are working at rates not comparable to those payable to anybody outside the Parliament, get more? Why not do this instead of passing the increased expenditure over to a selected few in the Government ranks for the reasons I have mentioned? 
I think it is regrettable in a democracy that a new Prime Minister sees fit to quell rebellion at Government expense. I think it is shocking that he will not announce his Ministry while the Parliament is sitting. That is another reason why between now and Thursday night the guillotine will be applied. We will be gagged out of political existence for a few months in order that these plums can be handed out and that those who support the Prime Minister can be rewarded. I can only describe this action - I hate to use the word here - as a despicable approach to democracy in this place, and I think the Government deserves to be condemned for it. I have shown the type of Minister we have and the type of men who might come into the Ministry; to say the least, it is a frightening position. I think that the Government and the people will suffer, and Australia certainly deserves a change of Government. 
I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion:- 'and expresses its disapproval of the decision to appoint Assistant Ministers'. 
In support of this motion I deal firstly with what the Opposition considers to be a doubt about whether the appointment of Assistant Ministers is constitutional. To support my contention I quote the decision of' a former  Speaker  of this Parliament the late  Hon.  Archie Cameron, on 27th May 1952.. It appears at page 818 of Hansard. A question had been directed to the  Speaker  relating to the constitutional position of the under secretaries who had been appointed at that time.  Mr Speaker  Cameron said: 
Any honourable member who cares to do so, "may read in May's 'Parliamentary Practice' that certain members of the House of Commons were debarred, in 1945, from sitting in the House because they had accepted certain offices under the Crown and that certain other members were so debarred in 1950. Honourable members will also find much relevant information in the report of a committee of the House of Commons which, in 1941, was charged with the duty of discovering the state of the law with regard to the holding of offices and places of profit under the Crown. The report of the committee contains some strong statements, and the point is made that it does not matter whether a member receives money or not. The test is whether he holds office, because a man may profit from the holding of office under the Crown without receiving money. In the authorities to which I have referred, case after case is discussed very fully, and opinions are expressed very distinctly. It is shown that several eminent parliamentarians, including Lord Palmerston, were disqualified from holding seats because they had accepted office under the Crown although no fee or emolument was attached to those offices. 

 Mr Speaker, it would be interesting to see whether your research would support the statement of your somewhat illustrious predecessor. It is significant that sitting at the table today in charge of this matter is the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  1 will quote from Hansard of 28th August 1952 something that he said. The present 
Leader of the House was appointed an Assistant Minister at the time the late  Hon.  Archie Cameron spoke on that matter. On 28th August 1952 the present Leader of the House made a personal explanation alleging that he had been misrepresented in regard to a clash with the  Speaker  over his accommodation as an Assistant Minister.  Mr Swartz  said: 
You will recall,  Mr Speaker,  that prior to my appointment as parliamentary under-secretary, I was occupying a room in Parliament House which I shared, with the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr McColm).  As it was necessary for me to have a single room in order to carry out my new duties, I approached a member of the House of Representatives staff, who subsequently wrote to you, as the  Speaker,  setting out my request. After a short time, as no reply had been received from you, you will recall that I telephoned you in South Australia. My understanding of the result of that conversation was that you would not provide a room for an under-secretary but. that if I changed my accommodation with a private member, as' a private member, then you would have no objection. 
In other words, the then Speaker ruled in this Parliament that these positions were unconstitutional and he regarded it as within his authority to refuse accommodation in the precincts of this Parliament to the present Minister because he considered he would be condoning an unconstitutional act.  
Well, it is significant. Surely the Government should produce to the Opposition some eminent authority to prove the constitutional position. Certainly it is difficult for honourable members on this side of the House, or even interested parties, to challenge the Government in view of the cost involved. But before any government brings to the Parliament a proposal over which there is a constitutional doubt, we on this side of the House are entitled to have some judicial judgment as to the position. You,  Mr Speaker,  have not passed judgment on it. I would like to know whether you agree with what was done by your predecessor or whether you will give accommodation to these honourable gentlemen. Let us once and for all be clear about this. It will look a strange thing in a few months time if a challenge is taken to the High Court and 8 or 10 members of the Liberal Party, who constitute at that stage the Prime Minister's majority, are declared ineligible to sit in this Parliament as holding an office of profit under the Crown. What a risk to take. Cannot honourable members imagine the wealthy supporters of the Liberal Party challenging a Labor government that did this? Cannot honourable members imagine how they would challenge the constitutional position again and again if a Labor government was proposing this? 
This is contempt of Parliament; take it or leave it, gag the debate. At every turn when Opposition members have stood up to put the point of view I am expressing they are gagged because the Government has a guilty conscience on this question, and the desire of these people to have the plums of office and to get into the tart shop is so great that every one of them aspires to one of these menial positions. Yet they are prepared to look past the constitutional position and to hell with the Constitution as it were. They ignore the famous ruling of that famous personality and famous  Speaker,  and at the same time give effect to a proposal about which there is constitutional doubt. I am shocked that the Minister, who was involved previously in a similar matter, would sponsor a proposal in this Parliament when he had to fight for a chair to sit on in 1952, because the then  Speaker  thought his appointment was not constitutional. If for no other reason this is worthy of challenge in this place. That is why I have moved the amendment on behalf of the Opposition that the House 'expresses its disapproval of the decision to appoint Assistant Ministers'. 
Is not the House entitled to know who will be appointed to these positions? Are the men to be appointed to these positions to be men of ability - extremely difficult to find on the Government side? Will they be any improvement on the incumbents of the front bench at this stage? Are not honourable members entitled to know whether those honourable members on the other side of the House who after long years here have shown no capacity will be appointed? For instance, imagine if appointments are open to the Country Party and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  is appointed. Can honourable members imagine anything worse happening in a democratic parliament? But bad as he is - I am talking in a political sense - it is just as bad that such honourable members are in the running for one of these positions. Why should not honourable members on the Opposition side of the Parliament desire to know from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who will be appointed? When all is said and done - I will not go over it again - 7 exMinisters are sitting on the back benches. Will one of those ex-Ministers be appointed to one of the positions? Perhaps some justification may exist in respect of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  or some other honourable member who has been the victim in a faction fight. But if it is not men such as the honourable member, who will be appointed? That is one of the reasons why the Opposition has moved this amendment. 
If the Government has a defence of the proposals, if they are sound and constitutionally based, if men are to be appointed who can add to the lustre of the Government, if such be possible, why is it that the Leader of the House gags this debate again and again? Why is it that the members on the Government side do not rise in their places to express their points of view? The only aspirant for a position who spoke today was the  Deputy  Government Whip, the honourable member for " Angas  (Mr Giles).  All he said was: T move: That the question be now put'. That is the only contribution made from the Government side today. In other words, Government members are not prepared to defend the policy and the change that is. coming about. If they will not defend the policy why should it be accepted by honourable members on this side of the Parliament or by the people of Australia? These are questions that must be answered, 
It is all right to sit silently and say that the changes are necessary. That proves nothing at all. Expenditure will be involved. No doubt every one of the Assistant Ministers will have a car and a secretary. We will probably be crowding 4 or 5 honourable members into a room to make way for some member climbing the long ladder to Liberal stardom in this illfamed Ministry that sits opposite us. We should not have to put up with this without some explanation or some defence by Government members. If any honourable member opposite aspires to be an Assistant Minister now is the time for him to win his spurs. He should defend this policy if he can, because if he can he will be entitled to be Prime Minister. As one of my colleagues said today, it is not so much a matter of honourable members opposite rising in their places to defend the appointment of Assistant Ministers that worries Government members; it is having to get up to defend the Ministry that worries them. That is the real problem. Any speaker on the Government side supporting the appointment of Assistant Ministers can not defend the Ministry because the very appointment of assistants implies that Ministers are not capable of carrying out the tasks to which they have been appointed. These are questions to which the Opposition is certainly entitled to have answers. 
I will place before the House another substantial reason why we should not support the proposals and why the Opposition has moved this amendment. It is not the function of the Parliament to approve the spending of money to solve Liberal Party faction fights. When all is said and done, they are internal matters. The members of the Liberal Party should keep them hidden if they can. But they should not ask the public to pay just because the Prime Minister wants to get the numbers in the party room. That is not the way to conduct the affairs of the country. If this is not a fact, why does the Government not answer the charges made by the Opposition? 
I made the proposal quite seriously from this side of the Parliament today that, apart from the constitutional position which is in grave doubt, the major consideration in the introduction of this legislation is to see that the Prime Minister achieves a majority over those who seek to dethrone him. It is not known from day to day whether there is to be a new Liberal Prime Minister. I was thinking that we have had stable government because the bolder of the office of Prime Minister has not been changed for about 30 days. The Prime Minister knows full well that the threat is there and wants to prevent it. At the time of his appointment the voting is 33 all, and it is said that he has lost a few votes since he got the job. So why should not the Prime Minister try to save himself at the taxpayers' expense? These are the things that we must ponder because they are important. These are the pertinent reasons why honourable members on the Government side will not stand and defend the introduction of this legislation. 
Members of the Country Party have never been so silent They are hanging together as best they can because they know that both Parties of the coalition have gone with the wind. Did honourable members ever dream that they would be selling their wares in this respect? It is a wonder that members of the Country Party, with their usual bushranging methods, did not demand the creation of 2 new ministerial positions - one for them and one for the Liberal Party. 
One could talk for hours on the sinister implications of these proposals. One could talk for hours on the tremendous effect on the nation the appointment of certain honourable members I see sitting opposite as Assistant Ministers, if they should be so appointed. When efforts of those on the Ministry who receive full salaries are borne in mind, they will appear a strange lot when some receive no ministerial salaries at all. 
The Government is not receiving results for the money that it has spent already on the present Ministry. Today Government supporters are prepared to bolster up that Ministry by the appointment of an extra Minister and by the addition of several assistants. No figure has been given to indicate how many assistants will be appointed. For all we know, the Prime Minister might be intending to appoint a couple of dozen assistants. He might appoint a shadow Minister for every Minister who sits opposite. The Opposition is entitled to know these things. It is important. The nation should know. I have moved this amendment with that in mind. I urge somebody on the Government side with a semblance of decency and with respect for democracy to rise and defend these proposals. The honourable member for Moreton, long renowned for his outspokenness in this place, is as silent as the grave now, thinking that he will come back quietly to the front bench. But I warn him that that is not the way to get there. He should use the methods that he adopted before and which paid off so well. In time he will reach his pinnacle again. 
I put the proposal to the House that the amendment moved by the Opposition should be supported. More in sorrow than in anger, I look at a Government riddled with dissension, bickering and fighting. Prime Ministers are unwanted, and are changed as often as one changes ones clothes. The Government is trying at the expense of the public purse to bolster up the falling numbers behind the Prime Minister. Not a member opposite is prepared to stand up to defend the policy of the Government. As I have said, the only words uttered from the Government side today were those from the honourable member who moved that the question be now put. Those words came from one of the outstanding candidates for appointment as an Assistant Minister.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I hope that in justice to the people and to democracy that the amendment that I have moved on behalf of the Opposition will be carried because no justification exists for the proposals incorporated in the Prime Minister's statement. 
As I listened to the speech of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  I had to think twice whether I was listening to the  president  of a benevolent society or to a Minister in a democratic Parliament. A moment ago, he stood up and, like Cassius Clay, said: T am the greatest; you have had everything you have wanted, such as long hours of debate on important issues; we have consulted you, let you move motions, and let you have the full right of expression. We have done everything possible to make it a harmonious Parliament and in that way to see that you have put your point of view.' What the Minister should have said was that any concession given by this Government was forced out of it by the Opposition. On every occasion, if we wanted anything it had to be forced by vote and motion. When the Minister referred to the traditional practice in this Parliament, he referred to the practice followed for 20 years by this worn out, tired old administration. When he said that it was normal practice to leave Bills over and so on, he was referring to the normal practice of a tory government. That is not the way a Labor administration would work. 
What person in this country ever thought that he would see Bills put through the Parliament on a mass production basis like a sausage machine? In this case 17 Bills are concerned. Although I have been a member of this Parliament for 28 years, I have never seen the guillotine applied to more than one Bill at a time. Now the Minister at the table, the head of the benevolent society, has put 17 Bills in the sausage machine and will run them through while we wait. These Bills cover the widest possible variety of subjects. For some of them there are 12 or 14 pages of detailed comment by the Minister, yet some of the Bills are to go through in as short a time as 5 minutes. As one looks through the list of Bills, from the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill right down to the Wool Industry Bill, one sees that the Bills cover the widest possible variety of subjects, yet they must be debated in the 20 hours provided before the sittings of this House are wound up. 
The Minister said that he consulted the Opposition. What he did was to walk around to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and say: This is what we are going to do; we will bring it in this afternoon.' That is the Liberal method of consultation with the Opposition. When a Party is a few numbers short, what can it do with an arrogant, over-bearing Government which is perpetrating at this moment what we might term the rape of democracy? The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer),  a former Minister of the Crown, is as silent as the grave; his hopes are still raised by the thought that he might be back again as an Assistant Minister or something. He is frightened to talk on these issues before the Parliament. I suggest that the Minister for National Development, supported by those behind him, has used the axe with all the skill of an executioner to suppress, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said tonight, the right of members to speak on these measures and to express the views of their electors. 
Let us examine some of the Bills. There is the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill - it takes nearly 5 minutes to say it. That Bill is to go through all stages in 5 minutes, and I will say why that is so. This is a case where the Minister in charge of the Bill will be one of those to be assisted by an Assistant Minister; he does not know what the Bill is all about and is not prepared to allow more than 5 minutes discussion on it. This is a cover-up for the matter brought before this Parliament today. Only incompetent Ministers would not allow more than 5 minutes for these measures to be discussed. For all stages of the AngloAustralian Telescope Agreement Bill 5 minutes is allowed. If honourable members on this side of the Parliament did this type of thing, honourable members opposite would say we were anti-American, or something to that effect. The situation is that honourable members opposite are making a farce of government. I congratulate the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on getting away from this weird mob. He certainly did it in a round-about way, but is he not justified, when he sees this kind of conduct in the Parliament? Is it any wonder that today the notable honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  stood up in this Parliament and warned the Prime Minister: 'You will be brought down if you do not let democratic procedures take their course.' 
Let the honourable member for Wannon tonight express the same attitude and the same courageous views as those expressed by the honourable member for Moreton today. Let him support the Opposition in what is a fight for justice and democracy against suppression in this place. The honourable member for Wannon, who is trying to interject, should stand on his feet and support me. I would be delighted to welcome his support. Quite frankly, I know that he is short of friends on the other side of the House, but he would pick up one or two friends over here tonight if he did what I have suggested. On behalf of the Opposition and myself, I place on record my condemnation of this Government for its treatment of the people, even more so than for its treatment of the Opposition. Let nobody be misled. Whatever we have got in this Parliament we have got by vote, force and expression. 
 I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration. By way of explanation I refer to the Minister's statement advising  that the Government has decided to reduce the immigration programme by 30,000 next year, reducing the target to 140,000 settlers, including 100,000 assisted migrants and at least 40,000 unassisted migrants. I ask the Minister whether he will advise the House of the actual reasons for this sudden reduction in the programme. Is, it prompted by the failure to attract migrants, by economic considerations associated with the former Prime Minister's statement on the state of the economy, or by recent public demands for an inquiry into and curtailment of the programme? Will he also state whether the Government proposes to phase out the immigration programme and that this is the first instalment in the process? Will he also state the nationalities of those most likely to be affected by the reduction in the programme and the savings in costs? 
asked the Minister for  the  Interior, upon notice: 
Can' he say which countries indicate the Party designation of candidates on the ballot papers for Parliamentary elections. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
On what date was the penalty for each offence first inserted in the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
What are the (a) details of each penalty, (b) last amendments in each case and (c) amounts of the penalties at the present time. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Why are Party designations of candidates not shown on ballot papers in Commonwealth elections. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say what expenditure is permitted for (a) candidates and (b) organisations in general elections in (i) the United States of America, (ii) the United Kingdom and (iii) New Zealand. 
If so, what are the provisions relating to the expenditure and returns to be made in each case. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What was the (a) date of introduction of deposits and (b) amount required from candidates under the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
What was the date of each amendment and increase, and what is the present deposit. 
Can  he say  what deposit is required from candidates in any other countries; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the number of existing jOint CommonwealthState boards and committees which have been established (a) under parliamentary authority and (b) by the respective Governments. 
What are the (a) names, (b) salaries and (c) terms' of .office of the Commonwealth members of these boards and committees. 
1 second the amendment. I join with the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  in condemning the tactics of the Government in expecting the Opposition to debate this measure today - not the next day of sitting but this day, because the next sitting is only a few hours off. The Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  looks a kindly and lovable man but he has developed into a real tyrant almost overnight. As the honourable member for Fremantle has said, he has surpassed the infamous conduct of his predecessors. It is 10 minutes to 3 in the morning. You yourself,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  without any discourtesy, look half asleep at this stage. We find that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  and honourable members opposite, because of tiredness and fatigue, are unable to debate effectively the matters before this Parliament. Yet the Minister has introduced a measure of vital concern to people all over this nation which affects education. We are expected not only to listen to the Minister at this hour of the night but also, when this House meets at 10 in the morning, to have decided our attitude to the Bill. Honourable members from this side not only have to decide their attitude to the Bill but also have to prepare speeches to deliver in this place for or against the proposals which have been presented. 
The conduct of the Government is nothing less than monstrous. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  deserves to be commended for his outspoken criticism last night of the Government's action, which he described as disgraceful. I think the people of this country will long remember the Minister and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  for forcing this Parliament to sit at this hour when there are weeks before we need to adjourn for the winter recess. The Government expects us to debate legislation of this kind within a few hours of its introduction. For my part I think we were extremely generous in allowing the legislation to be introduced tonight because that was a matter of courtesy. Yet, as I say, the Minister and other honourable members expect to come back within a few hours. I do not know how long this situation is to continue. I hope the Press of this country will give due publicity to the conduct of, this Government and the attitude of the Prime Minister. At this very moment he is probably snoring his head off in The Lodge while we sit here. He is not in thd 'Parliament. He does not give a hang for the nation. The Minister .does his bidding at the table because Liberal Prime Ministers select their Ministers, who are expected to sit here all night while the Prime Minister loafs or slumbers off his tiredness which has come to him during the few hours he has worked here. This is a monstrous state of affairs. 
The best thing the Opposition could do at this stage to the people who have the conduct of this Government would be to make the Parliament unworkable because nobody in this country expects Parliament to be sitting at this hour of the night. Nobody in the nation expects the Government to be run by stealth. Is the Government ashamed of its legislation? Will it not let the people hear this legislation debated in the daytime? Does it not want the people to know what is in the legislation? If it does, why does it introduce these Bills in the dead of night when there is no publicity for us? I repeat what I have said here before. The only people awake in Canberra at this time are the police, perverts, prostitutes and the politicians. The simple reason for this situation is that the Government does this kind of thing. It is making a mockery of democracy in this country. I must confess that I exclude from my remarks those ladies sitting in the public gallery. I hope that they will accept my apologies. 
You, .  Mr Deputy Speaker,  must agree that the conduct of' the Government deserves to be condemned. I join with the honourable -member for Fremantle in placing on record my condemnation of its attitude. Legislation should not be introduced at this hour of the night. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  I think it was, asked a moment ago: 'Will we adjourn in time for the resumption of the next sitting?'. It seems that one sitting will run into the next. 
Why should this Parliament be sitting at this hour? Throughout the corridors and offices of this Parliament now are members of the staff who will be expected to line up for work again at 8 -o'clock- or 9 o'clock this morning. I do not know what unions they are in, but if I was a union secretary in charge of the staff of Parliament House; I would take the staff out on -strike in protest against the conduct of this Government. The best way in'' which to bring this Government to its senses would be for the unions concerned to declare this kind of conduct black- and to state- that no man or woman would work 'for the Parliament without a specified- time1 for rest. The clerks at the table must be worn out, par:ticularly in view of the  I  onerous duties that they have carried out' What about the members of the Hansard staff who sitalongside us and who are expected to take down the proceedings in the middle of the night? Most members of the. Liberal Party who are here cannot- take -it down in the middle of the day. This situation exists throughout the House.- Similar remarks could be made with regard to the staff of the Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms. 
This is a monstrous state1 of affairs. The way in which the business of this country is conducted is shocking and scandalous, and it should not continue. I hope that what is happening here will be given full publicity, although I am not hopeful that the Press will report the' manner in which this Parliament is run- while the Prime Minister snores his head off at the Lodge. What a dreadful state of affairs. 
We do not know how. many of the Liberals are awake in the House. I only wish that all of our members would go outside and we would wake up every one of them to see what they look like at this time in the morning. I should like to place on record my condemnation of the conduct of the Government. I have been a member of this House for a long time. Little did I dream that I would ever see the conduct of the business of this Parliament reach the level that it has reached tonight. Little did I ever think that I would see the Parliament run in this way by a government that says it is democratic. Never did I dream that I would see a Minister looking placid and contented at the very moment when, as everybody knows, he is raping democracy. 
I finish on that note. You seem very anxious,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to rise to your feet. I am sorry that I have to speak in this strain at this hour of the morning. But I hope that the Government will take note of my remarks. I urge the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who is now sleeping peacefully to rise in his place. Look at the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  Take a good look at them. These are the people running the country. The Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  to his credit, is one of the few who is awake. As I look around, I see that one-half of the Government's supporters is asleep, but we are expected to debate Bills relating to science laboratories and all the other matters before us. I say these things to let the people know the situation. I hope that all Government members will sit up. Here is a sleepy time government telling us to stay awake while it introduces legislation. More in sorrow than in anger 1 express these words tonight and place on record, with the honourable member for Fremantle, my condemnation of the Government's conduct. 
I second the motion of dissent. I wish to support the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron). 
As I said, I second the motion of dissent. All day today the Opposition, with the best of intentions, has endeavoured to get the Government to explain to the Parliament- 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
As the seconder of trie amendment I wish to say a few words in reference to the matter under discussion. As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has stated, the opposition does not oppose the measure but its amendment is designed so that there will be a further inquiry into this matter and an investigation of the position of certain other canneries which might be militated against because of the preferential treatment given to the Shepparton Preserving Company Limited. Associated with the $4.2m grant is a number of sinister and rather strange features, which the Australian Labor Party wishes to bring to the notice of the Parliament tonight. No-one can deny that there is a series of remarkable coincidences. We heard the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  say a few moments ago that this grant was decided upon fca December. 
At that time the former honourable member for Murray,  Sir John  McEwen, had announced that he would not be standing again and that there would be a by-election. As everybody knows, the Australian Country Party was to be challenged in this seat by a Liberal Party candidate, with the possibility of the Country Party candidate being defeated. Consequently something had to be done to bolster up the failing fortunes of those 2 discredited parties. What do we find? We find that the SPC is to be given a $4.2m grant. Shepparton is in the heart of Country Party territory and is the home of the new honourable member for Murray. It is a place with which  Sir John  McEwen was associated for a lifetime and is the headquarters of his organisation. It is the electorate of the Country Party member for Murray. Is it not remarkable that of all the canneries, the Government should pick the one at Shepparton which is associated with all of the Country Party activities and organisation? 
The Government picked out one company which a couple of years ago had unlimited profits and unlimited reserves, as the member for Dawson mentioned a few moment ago. We on this side of the Parliament ask the Government why SPC received this preferential treatment? Why not extend it over the full range of canneries that might want assistance? Will the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  when he replies, tell us how he picked out this one and whether he will extend the same treatment to other canneries should they be in need? We have the amazing situation now that state aid applies not only to schools but also evidently to canneries. That is a remarkable situation and a new development in Country Party rural policy. I suggest to the Country Party that it has a lot to explain away. 
It is significant that no Liberals have risen in the Parliament to support the move. They are not game to get in behind this one. They know that the Bill was introduced in the dead of the night last night because the Government wanted to hide it from the light of day. The Liberals have got a bit of sense and this is one of the few occasions on which they have shown it. They do not want to be tied up with this sinister deal, where the Country Party is favouring and giving patronage to a special interest in its own area. 
The Minister is interjecting the Opposition will give him unlimited time in which to speak. It does not suppress people. Let him explain it at length to us here later. It is not for the Opposition to restrict free speech. Honourable member's on this side of the House would like this matter to be debated in the middle of the day. It is now 10 to 1 in the morning. This deal has been hidden in the night. There is something sinister about it. Honourable members know that $4.2m is not chicken feed. That amount would keep a lot of industries going. 
Let us have a look at the situation. As the honourable member for Dawson said a few moments ago, in 1968 the Shepparton Preserving Company had $11. 3m of shareholders funds. It had an issued capital of $1.52m. It had unappropriated profits of $750,000. We find now that inside 3 years the company wants $4. 2m to keep it going. I say that there should be an investigation. 
It is in a jam. That is correct. I thank the honourable member for a very worthwhile interjection, one of the many that he makes in this Parliament. I would say, even on a charitable basis that this is bad management personified. There is probably a lot of other bad management in canneries here and there, but the Government does not rush in with $4.2m because possibly these canneries are situated in areas represented by outstanding members like the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  or the honourable member for Dawson, who happen to be members of the Labor Party. Where Country Party interests are involved, the sky is the limit. What about dear  Mr Bolte?  The Government has to bolster him because he is a little outspoken in respect to certain aspects of policy, lt is trying to build him up against the Liberal opposition in that State. I suggest to the Government that it should get its priorities fixed. In 1969, by Act of this Parliament, $5m was granted to the States for nursing homes over a period of 5 years. 
It was a grant. The South Australian Government received only $465,000 over 5 years. That $5m was granted for all the nursing homes in Australia over a 5 year period, yet here is a cannery in a Country Party centre that is given $4.2m in one fell swoop. What is more, it was made retrospective to last December. The Government will not do that for a million and a quarter starving pensioners throughout the length and breadth of Australia. This matter merits a special investigation. The Opposition has proposed an amendment in order that there will be an inquiry into what the Government is doing. I suggest to the Minister tonight that this decision was made deliberately, regardless of the needs of the industry at that particular time, to see that the Liberal Party won the by-election and sent to the Parliament a new member for a temporary period. I do not know about the 'Shepparton News' but the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  is always quoting the 'Sunraysia Daily'. I do not know whether it is a better paper, but the 'Sunraysia Daily' has become a bit of a joke. The 'Shepparton News' is not the London 'Times'. What authority has the 'Shepparton News' to tell us that the money is needed? It would not be much of a local paper if it did not get all the money it could out of the Government. That is precisely what it is trying to do. 
I repeat that this money has been made available because of interests associated with the Country Party. The former leader of the Country Party had one great attribute and I take my hat off to him for it. He looked after the 5 per cent or 10 per cent of the population that put his Party into Parliament so that they would have some power in this place. This was one of his last acts - a Gorton-McEwen' arrangement whereby they both hoped to survive. He hoped that the new member and -. possibly the Prime Minister would receive a little benefit at that time. I say to the Minister in the few brief moments at my disposal tonight that I see not much sense in talking at this hour of the night on this important question. The Government saw fit to introduce the Bill exactly 24 hours ago. If it. is a fair dinkum Bill, if it is something which is open to public ' scrutiny and if it is not based on favouritism and patronage, why sneak it in in the middle of the night? The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  may have gone home last night because he did not want to be here when this Bil! was introduced. 
If he was here he was pretty well hidden. He must have a good bed somewhere in this establishment because he was not in the chamber. The point I wish to make is that the Government has not been supported tonight by the Liberal Party members of the coalition on this issue. This is . in itself important because some members of the Liberal Party ought to know what the Country Party is doing when $4. 2m is involved. I say no more,  Mr Speaker.  I see that I have convinced even you as to the substance of my submission. The amendment does not in any way detract from the fact that the Opposition is not opposing this measure. The Opposition is simply seeking clarification as to whether sinister moves are afoot on behalf of the Country Party to save its wavering fortunes and its wavering sons in the country districts and to resist the great onslaughts of the Grassby's and the Patterson's and others from the Labor side of politics in this country. The Country Party talks about the plight of the primary producers. There was never anything stabilised in the rural industry till a Labor government came to office under Chifley. Under Chifley and the Labor Party the primary producers became so wealthy that, instead of borrowing money from the banks, the banks were borrowing money from them. Guaranteed markets, stabilised prices and prosperity for country people was the policy of the Chifley government. Tonight we find that $4.2m of the taxpayers' money is being thrown away through  Sir Henry  Bolte in what is a Country Party patronage of the worst kind. The Labor Party believes that these practices should be exposed. It is a pity that the Labor Party has not been given an opportunity to expose them in the daylight. All Australia could then see that it is time that it elected Labor Party men in country seats instead of Country Party people. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
How many persons have been charged and convicted for offences under the Commonwealth Electoral Act in the last 10 years. 
What was the (a) nature of the offence and (b) penalty imposed in each case. 

 - Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  put: 
That the question be  now  put. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the Opposition and the people are appalled at the public display of sordid intrigue and disunity by his Government in recent weeks? Is it also a fact that the strong support for the honourable member for Wannon and the honourable member for Moreton in the  Deputy  Leadership ballot of the Liberal Party - and the defeat of his nominee - indicate a lack of confidence in the Prime Minister? If so, will he for the sake of unity in the nation and in this once great Party - if I might coin a phrase - either call a general election, resign the Prime Ministership and test his standing in the Party at a secret ballot, or at the very least recall from the Cabinet in exile the honourable member for Wannon and Killen the magnificent? 
1 would ask the House to have a little sympathy for the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  because the Liberals have had a very trying week. Therefore, tonight he has given expression in this Parliament to the thoughts that he would have loved to express in the caucus, but was not game to express. Tonight in this Parliament he has tried to impress everybody under the silly impression that the Prime Minister picks men on ability. Everybody knows that nothing is further from the Prime Minister's thoughts. Tonight honourable members have heard a former lecturer in political science at the University of Melbourne and Monash University, so they cannot blame the students from those universities if they go around the bend occasionally. The honourable member says that we are bound by caucus decisions; that we are bound to vote as the Party tells us. We gave the opportunity to the greatest rebels of our time the other night in this Parliament - the former Prime Minister, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  and the honourable member for Moreton - Killen the magnificent. These men who can vote as they like, do what they like, speak as they like, of course as long as they do not vote the Government out, sat there silently and swallowed the words they had uttered all the week. This is a lot of hypocrisy. 
I wonder what  Mr St  John thinks tonight as he listens in to the freedom of thought of the Liberal Party. Of course, everybody knows that it is a fallacy and a myth. The honourable member for Chisholm is just coming to his senses in this place. I suggest that he try out his theory on the eve of the next preselection and very shortly after that we will welcome a new honourable member for Chisholm. Fancy the honourable member talking about outside influence. My information is that the executive of the Liberal Party now comprises  Sir Frank  Packer,  Sir Reginald  Ansett and the Prime Minister. What is more, they say that the Prime Minister has not got a vote. That is the situation at this time in this Parliament. 
We heard the other night how the Liberal Party is limping to disaster. We heard also of how it is leaking like a sieve. The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  says that they are like an iceberg - there is only a bit above the water. No wonder the honourable member wants to attack the Labor Party. Why would he not? Any member of a party that had the sordid record that that Party gained in the last couple of weeks would talk about anything but the Liberal Party. We have so many Ministers in this Parliament that we have a first, second and third eleven. This Government does not muck around. We have an ex-Prime Minister who is on the back bench, and he is leading it. Over on the back bench there is the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  who is a former Country Party Minister for Primary Industry, there is a former Prime Minister, a former Minister for Foreign Affairs, a former Leader of the House and Minister for Air, a former Minister for the Army and for Defence, a former AttorneyGeneral, a former Minister for the Navy, the right honourable member for Moreton who was also another former Minister for the Navy and a former Minister for the Army. Now, that is the third eleven. Let me be honest with honourable members. On ability, would you not say that they have it over the first eleven? We on this side of the Parliament do not know to whom we should address questions for the simple reason that we think the former Prime Minister is much brighter than the present one. Must not people be confused? We have a ministry of 27 and 9 reserves. Must not they be a weak lot that could not get into the 36? That is why the honourable member opposite tonight spoke  about  the Labour Party. I was saddened this  week to  see the sordid, disreputable intrigue  of  honourable members in the Liberal Party, hovering around corners, sneaking,  not  wishing to be seen, not daring to speak  to the  former Prime Minister. Former respectable, open minded Liberals  were  afraid to look sideways in case they were listed. Why,  Mr Speaker,  the situation appalled even you, I am sure, with your great knowledge of politics. This is the Party that tells us in this side  of  the Parliament what we are tied down to. Ministers come and  go  like trains at Central Station. I am annoyed, as are other honourable members. We have to represent our  constituents.  We just get to know  a  Minister and his staff, we walk around one Monday and they say. 'Sorry, changed him  on  Saturday.' This is the situation. Why, you cannot make representations on Health matters. Every week you walk in, there is  a  new Minister for Health. We have had 3 in 3 months. From what I can gather from the public, the Government could do with another half dozen. None of them have done any good at all. Why would not the Government want to get away from this background? Yesterday there were so many nominees for the Deputy Leadership that the only thing that prevented a bigger field was that the track was too small. Everybody wanted to get elected to the position because in that way it was thought that the Prime Minister could not shift him. This is the Government which is supposed to be running the country. The Prime Minister does not want men of ability, and the public should realise it. Undoubtedly there is a new look Liberal Party. Ministers are changed almost daily, rank and file members do not know what is happening, people of ability are discarded and personalities matter more than anything else. Yet despite, this situation the Government seeks the confidence of the people and attacks members of the  Opposition  as being disunited and for sticking to party policy. The fact of  the  matter is that on the Government side  of  the Parliament there is dissension  of a  kind that has not been heard  of  before. . 
Even the Country Party has .  become  involved. It is pleasing to note  who  is keeping the Government afloat at this time. Only the other day the Deputy Prime Minister issued a statement in Canberra. I think it was the best statement of the week. The report was headed 'Government on Firm Course'. The article stated: 
The  Deputy  Prime " Minister,  Mr Anthony,  said in Canberra today that last week's political events had obscured the fact that the business of governing the nation was continuing on a firm and normal basis. 
Heaven help us if it gets subnormal, lt will be a really exciting week when the business of governing becomes subnormal. The article continued: 
He said the solidarity and stability of the Country Party were important elements in supporting the Prime Minister - 
There is no doubt about its solidarity when one looks at the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  - and in the Government's capacity to do its job despite temporary distractions. 
I draw attention to the extra Ministry on the Government back benches. It comprises the former deposed Prime Minister and 3 or 4 other deposed Ministers. That is a minor distraction! This is the way the Government runs this country. If the new member who spoke realises what is going on I congratulate him on his wisdom in talking about the Labor Party instead of the Liberal Party. The article continued: 

 Mr Anthony said: 'The Government is a bit like an iceberg - 
There is no doubt about that either. That is pretty true. - there is a part visible at the top, with people chipping away at it. 
This article is good enough for a Laurel and Hardy picture. People are chipping away at the iceberg. I suppose they are using ice picks, because we have been told that the Cabinet leaks like a sieve. The article continued: 
But underneath there is a great force of people who continue their task relatively free from the passing storms.' 
Presumably they are the underground engineers of the Liberal Party - the ones who will sink the iceberg. The article continued: 
I suppose it is only natural that public attention should be focused' on the personalities involved In events like those of last week.' 
There is no doubt about that either. Why should not public attention be focused on such events? It is not often that Prime Ministers disappear in the dead of night, as it were. The former Minister for the Navy, the honourable member for Moreton, was deposed. He was one of the few Ministers for the Navy who did not have an accident while he ran the Navy. The few ships that the Government keeps for the Navy were always at sea and except for a collision with a ferry on one occasion the career of the honourable member for Moreton was free of any incident. Yet he has been dismissed to the back bench. What more could the man have done? As if that insult were not sufficient the Government put a sky pilot in charge of the Navy. The fact of the matter is that this is a situation which honourable members opposite wanted to avoid. 
The time allotted for my speech is limited and although I have spoken in a somewhat light vein this evening there is great seriousness for the public in what I have said, because it reveals the disunited rabble which is supposed to be running Australia. Members of the first, second and third elevens are fighting for positions. About 30 or 40 other members behind them are not good enough to occupy any of the Ministries. Quite honestly I did not think I would ever have to say this, but the former Prime Minister must have had a good look around him and said: T could not get anywhere with these men; it is better to get away'. That could well be his feelings deep down. 

 Mr Speaker, I regret having had to say this in your presence tonight, because you are one of the few reputable members of the Liberal Party, one whom I respect, but when I hear speeches like that made by the honourable member for Chisholm I believe that someone has to lecture, probably from the university of hard knocks, because the political lecturers live in a world of fantasy and do not appreciate the realities of the situation. They do not come face to face with the problems of politics. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Italian Under-Secretary for Immigration,  Mr Bemporad,  during a recent visit to Australia said that many provisions of the Immigration Agreement between Australia and Italy were inadequate and provided little security for Italian migrants and requested that it should be brought up to date? 
Is it also a fact that a mixed committee has been formed to settle the problems and recommend changes? 
Did  Mr Bemporad  state that the Italian Government was dissatisfied with the methods of the Australian Department of Immigration and had sought assurances that information on living and working conditions be accurate and reflect more closely the local situation? 
Did  Mr Bemporad  criticise the failure of Australia to recognise trade and professional qualifications. suggest that more overseas qualifications should be recognised, and request that English courses both in Italy and Australia be expanded and improved? 
Was  Mr Bemporad  critical of the failure of the Australian Government to transfer age and invalid pensions to migrants who desire to retire to their native country? 
What were the reasons which prompted the criticism by  Mr Bemporad  and what action has been taken by the Government in these matters? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
is it a fact that economy cuts have been effected in regard to the Air Training Corps including the elimination of weekend training? 
If so, will the Minister indicate in what way the activities of the Air Training Corps have been curtailed? 
I move: 
That so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the House from debating Order of the Day No. 39 and voting on it without adjournment. 
I do so because the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced in today's Press the appointment of 6 assistant Ministers without reference to you  Mr Speaker,  or the Parliament. They are: The honourable members for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  Cook  (Mr Dobie),  Cowper  (Mr Robinson),  Wimmera  (Mr King),  Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  and  Senator Marriott.  At the very time when this announcement has been made there appears on the notice paper Order of the Day No. 39 which relates to a motion that we take note of an announcement by the Prime Minister to appoint assistant Ministers to which motion I moved an amendment for the addition of these words:  ...... and expresses its disapproval of the decision to appoint Assistant Ministers. 
That motion has been adjourned. The Government sought to avoid a decision on it at that time. Now, although this motion is still under consideration by this Parliament, the Prime Minister has shown utter contempt for parliamentary procedure by going outside this Parliament without reference to you,  Mr Speaker,  announcing the names of 6 assistant Ministers.  Mr Speaker,  in your wisdom you said this morning that the House and the Standing Orders do not provide for these appointments. Everyone knows that they have no constitutional basis. As you said,  Mr Speaker,  the Standing Orders would have to be changed to enable the assistant Ministers to be appointed. Yet this announcement has been made. Before this is done let us debate the motion that I have put before the Parliament. Let us see the constitutional position and let us see how honourable members with their sense of responsibility are prepared to vote on the motion I have put forward. Is the Parliament to be run constitutionally by you,  Mr Speaker  or just at the whim of the. Prime Minister 
I rise to support the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee. Strangely, also, I am in favour of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I mention today that the change in sitting hours was made in the nature of an experiment when a number of standing orders were overhauled, and with the best of intentions members, who were free to vote as they wished, voted on this matter in a way that they thought would benefit the Parliament. If I remember rightly I think that I was in favour of the change at that time, believing that such a change might allow us to deal with more business. It was anticipated that a number of members would stay in Canberra over the weekend between the Friday and the Monday, but I think that events have proved that this has not been so. 
I do not think that the experiment has been a success. Furthermore, I do not think that we have dealt with any more business. I believe also that a reversion to the old system will not prove any less beneficial than the change has been. 
Undoubtedly - and the figures of attendances in this House prove it - Friday sittings not only are unpopular but also do not allow members adequate representation. I wish to quote figures, not to take any political advantage of either side, but to show the failure of Friday sittings. These figures, which show the attendances in Parliament when divisions were called on the occasions when the Whips were prepared to call them, show that Friday sittings are completely unacceptable to an average of 35 per cent of the Parliament. On 16th October 1970, the first Friday on which we sat, there were 4 divisions. In the first division there were 15 absentees; in the second division, 43; in the third, 45; and in the fourth, 47. To put it another way, I point out that during the first division there was 40 per cent absenteeism, 34 per cent during the second, 36 per cent during the third, and 37 per cent during the fourth. On Friday 30th October 29 members were absent during the first division that was taken and 43 during the second. The second division took place about the time when members were catching planes for distant places. The average absenteeism was 33 per cent to 34 per cent. 
On Friday, 2nd April, 44 members, or 35 per cent, were absent. During Friday sittings alone, the average number of members absent when divisions were taken was 43 or an average of 34 per cent. I do not criticise the honourable members who were absent because I know the problems. Some honourable members are from distant cities and have to catch planes otherwise they would not be home probably until the Sunday. Those members may not have accommodation in Canberra other than in hotels and motels, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Wills. They have families to go to and it is only human to see that their family affairs are attended to. Also electorate matters crop up. So whatever else may be said about the experiment, those figures do not exactly reflect great credit on any of us for that matter, but the reasons for it are apparent to parliamentarians. [ suggest therefore that Friday sittings, come what may in the matters under discussion - should be completely abandoned because they are not acceptable to the Parliament and are not a workable proposi- tion. 1 have mentioned only the occasions on which divisions were called. I have in mind some other occasions when considerably more members would have been shown to be absent had divisions been called but for a number of reasons, were not called. Therefore, I suggest that we should revert to the 3-day sitting week on the basis that we undoubtedly will be able to deal with business and attend to our electorate duties. 
As a member of the Executive of the Parliamentary Labor Party I find under the present sitting arrangements that it is impossible for me not only to go to my electorate but also to see my secretary or dictate or sign a letter for about 14 days. I have to be in Canberra on a Monday morning and attend the meeting of Parliament on Monday afternoon. With the lack of secretarial assistance it is just impossible for me to attend to anything in my electorate. I think that this is common to a number of honourable members who come from distant States and who cannot attend to their own affairs when Parliament is called upon to sit on a Friday. It is all very well to say that Parliament comes first - we all put it first - but electors also are very important in the scheme of things. If attention is not given to their requirements the inclination is for them to say: This chap is never here to see us when we want to see him about a pension' or something of that nature. So we have to strike a reasonable balance as between the average electorate and our parliamentary duties. Consequently I suggest that a 3-day week would give us all a better chance to do that. 
Other factors come into this consideration. The sittings we have arranged impose a tremendous burden on the staff of Parliament House. Under the present arrangements we sit constantly for 10 days. We have more committees now in the Parliament than ever before. They in turn require the attendance of members and also the staff when the House is not sitting and we have to squeeze in meetings. It is all very well to say that they could be fitted into the week that the House does not sit; but members who are away from their electorates for a fortnight and who have not been to their offices say - and I believe that this is not unreasonable - that they cannot come back to Canberra for a committee meeting because they must be in their electorates for some time. Therefore, if we revert to 3-day sittings, I think that these considerations will balance out. 1 believe that under the present arrangement we are not getting through very much parliamentary business, and the Friday sittings, as 1 proved, are unsatisfactory. I have the greatest respect for my friend who occupies the lowly position of  Deputy  Government Whip in trying to round up members on a Friday. I have the greatest respect also for the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  who found it difficult to get a quorum of members from his Party on Fridays, so anxious were they to get back to the farms, the cows, the trees, the horses and the broad acres. Whilst I say these things in a light vein, I have a certain feeling for the honourable member for Mallee and his desire to round up his members on a Friday, and that is why I have mentioned this matter. 
Passing on from that matter, strange as it may seem, I am in favour of the proposition put forward that the House should adjourn at a given time each night. I do not think that we get anywhere by having all night sittings and legislation by exhaustion. Even talking at a late hour on the motion that the House adjourn is hardly satisfactory. To that extent, the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills does not go far enough. I think there should be a standing order which provides that at a given time each night, whether it be 10 o'clock or 11 o'clock, the House should adjourn. It is not much good if we put the question that the House do now adjourn at 1 1 o'clock and then talk till 1 a.m. on the adjournment. 
Whilst I would at this stage support the suggestion of the honourable member for Wills, I would be much happier if the House adopted a system whereby the question that the House do now adjourn were put at 10 o'clock and the House adjourned no later than 11 o'clock or a set time. Regretfully I say that I believe the experiment has failed. I believe also that it will be beneficial to go back to the routine we had previously. 1 summarise by saying that the Friday sittings, because of the poor attendance of members, have been proved to be unsatisfactory. I think that from the point of view of the working and the staff of the 
Parliament, and in every way, it will be better if we revert to the previous system as I have suggested. We will have more time for our discussions. In addition I hope that consideration will be given to the proposition that the adjournment be moved at 10 o'clock, which is not an unreasonable hour for honourable members and for the staff, who still have a lot of work to do after that time. Having said so much, I point out that I will support the report of the Standing Orders Committee and also the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills in respect of the time of adjournment. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
How many (a) invalid and (b) age pensioners have (i) one and (ii) two or more dependent children. 
What is the total number of children involved and the cost of providing the increased rates as outlined in the 1971 Budget. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
How many (a) invalid and (b) age pensioners have non-pensioner wives. 
How many of these wives have dependent children. 
What is the cost in a full year of the increased rates proposed in the 1971 Budget for non-pensioner wives and dependent children. 
asked the Minister for Interior, upon notice: 
How many persons were eligible to vote in 
each State and Territory and 
Australia in (i) 1902 and (ii) 1971. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Is he able to say which overseas countries and which Australian States provide voting rights for 18 year olds in the election of Governments. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
What would be the cost in a full year of increasing the wife's allowance to the same rate as that payable to a married pensioner. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that his Department now charges 40 cents when subscribers seek details of charges of telephone accounts; if so, what is the reason for this charge. 
Is the charge refundable in the event of an error being made by the Department; if not, why not. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on behalf of the Opposition moved the following amendment: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: while not opposing the Bill, the House is of opinion that - 
the increases proposed are inadequate, 
social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living, 
steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty, 
a national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated, 
pension payments should be a proportion of average weekly earnings adjusted annually and 
a joint select committee should be established to inquire into and report upon the social welfare needs of the Australian community'.  1 think that the House is indebted for the research done and for the substance of the speech made by the honourable member for Oxley in support of that amendment which deserves the support of all members of this Parliament. It is regrettable that the Government saw fit a short time ago to vote against the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders in order to allow the setting up of a committee to inquire into social welfare. 1 was a member of the Joint Social Security Committee of this Parliament for some years. It introduced, on a bipartisan basis, some of the great reforms in social services in the 1940s. The fact that the Committee was abandoned by the present Government's predecessors is one of the most regrettable features of the social welfare system of this country because the Committee did commendable work. It provided great benefits for -the people and vast knowledge for members of the Parliament. Other Labor speakers on this side of the House have ably supported the honourable member for Oxley in presenting to the Australian people the case for a real social welfare programme and not the half baked, patched up propositions brought forward by the Government. 
As I listened today to the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  and to the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  1 came to the conclusion that no honourable member opposite has ever seen a pensioner, let alone lived with one. Do honourable members opposite realise what it is like to live on $17.25 a week? There are 160,000 pensioners doing it. Thousands of pensioners in my district live on this miserably mean income which this Government believes to be adequate at a time when the average wage is $91 a week. It is scandalous in the extreme, it is unforgivable politically and does not give any justification for the Government not to give an adequate pension to people who are eligible to receive one. 
I had great hopes for the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  - we all did. I think that he is sincere, well intentioned and knowledgeable. I thought that all of these attributes fitted him to take his place in this Parliament as one of the great social welfare Ministers of our time. Of course, I was fortified in this view by the magnificent speeches which he made from the back bench and on his rise to power in the Liberal Party. I was also fortified in this view by the knowledge which he showed at that time. When he was appointed to the Ministry we on this side of the House thought that for once a Liberal Prime Minister - there have been so many since that time that I do not know who it was at that time - had picked the right man for the job. But what has happened? I know that the Minister is well intentioned, but he has no influence or any effect whatsoever on the Ministers - and one cannot say that he has not had plenty of Ministries to work on because they are changed like one changes his shirt; it is not the one team all the time. But the Minister has never been able to give effect in this Parliament to the expressions on social welfare which he so ably put to this Parliament in days gone by. Why, he has even thrown aside his baby which he showed could be reared almost overnight in the abolition of the means test without cost to the nation.  His  proposals for a national superannuation scheme have been repudiated publicly by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Now he has introduced a half baked, patched up proposition, which is a shadow of the great programme which we thought he would introduce. With all the good intentions in the world he has proved conclusively to the Australian people and to pensioners in particular that the only way to get a social welfare programme, to which even he would subscribe, is to elect a Labor government in Australia. 
Let us look at what the Minister said in his second reading speech. He said: 
This Government places its greatest emphasis upon improvements in social welfare - under previous Liberal governments we have made great strides and under future Liberal governments will make even greater advances. 
What a phoney proposition that is. Liberal governments have been in office for 22 years, but they still provide only a miserable $20 with which to bury pensioners when they die. That rate has never been changed in 25 or 26 years. As the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  said, in the case of a married pensioner couple, if the husband dies the spouse receives $40. The maternity allowance is still the same as it was when it was introduced 26 years ago. By heavens, there will be some old people in this country if they wait for great Liberal reforms, in line with the statements which have been made, to be given effect. 
Today we are debating again in this House Liberal proposals which mean little to the vast majority of people- In the proposals which were announced by the Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  the most meagre provisions are reserved for the aged, widowed and invalid pensioners. The Government is providing for a rise of $1.25 a week to single pensioners, taking it to the princely sum of $17.25 a week, and $1 a week to a married person, making a pension of $15.25 a week. The wife's allowance has been increased after a period of 3 years by $1 a week to $8 a week. I do not think that that would keep a dog in meat for a week in this day and age, but pensioner with a wife tied to the home, is expected to live on $8 a week. The increased social service benefits will cost $92m in a full year. They represent the very minimum to the most deserving section of the community. They come at a time when the average income of Australians is said to be more than $90 a week and when spiralling costs have forced prices and the cost of living to an all time high. They come at a time when every section of the community realises that those on pensions in thousands of cases are really in want in the fourth wealthiest nation in the world, as the honourable member for Oxley said. Yet what does the Government do? It gives this meagre increase to the most deserving section and completely repudiates its responsibility to our pioneers. 1 will go so far as to say that had there not been a possibility of an elections being held this year there would not have been any increases at all in social service benefits. 
As I mentioned earlier, the Minister for Social Services, who is sympathetic but ineffective, receives scant consideration from the Cabinet in submissions for adequate social service benefits. That in itself is a great disappointment to him, to honourable members on this side of the House and to about one million people who thought that welfare benefits would be given as they require them. We find that the whole programme being outlined now, in the light of a Budget running into $8,000m, is niggardly in the extreme. Every dependent wife should receive a full pension in accordance with the policy -of the Australian Labor Party. To make matters worse, as has been said by other speakers, of the 878,000 age, invalid and widow pensioners in Australia, no fewer than 181,000 will receive no increase at all because of the means test, and another 27,000 will receive only part of the increase. Altogether 17 per cent of pensioners will get no benefit and 22 per cent of age pensioners will' go without. 
To summarise the position: No increase will be given to 148,000 age pensioners, 17,000 invalid pensioners and 16,000 widowed pensioners. This is a scandalous and unforgivable confidence trick on people who depend on a pension. Any government introducing legislation of this kind denying pensioners an increase must surely have forfeited the respect and support of every fair minded member of the community. There are many wealthy companies like the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, which earn profits of $80m and S90m a year and plenty of wealthy people who can well afford to pay more taxation in order to enable adequate pensions to be paid to those in need. It is to the eternal discredit of this Government t':at it allows them to escape their responsibility at the expense of the suffering, the aged, the sick and the infirm. In Australia today to our eternal discredit great poverty exists amongst large numbers in the community. For instance, pensioners who have no income other than supplementary assistance and the $17.25 per week pension total approximately 160,000. A survey conducted by the Melbourne University not very long ago showed that one in 4 aged people live below the poverty line. To say the least these figures are very alarming yet they only indicate the true position. 
Our social services which were once our pride have gradually deteriorated in purchasing power and benefit to such an extent that they do little more than maintain in a degree of poverty those unfortunate people in the community who may be aged, sick, widowed or unemployed. This is happening ' in an Australia that has unlimited potential and untapped natural resources. Australia was founded as a convict colony. Our forebears by energy and drive, suffering and sacrifice, worked to build an Australia in which all could enjoy social and economic security in the years ahead. This was a glorious heritage and everyone in this country today should be snaring in the Australia that they visualised and helped to build. There should be no poverty in Australia. It is the responsibility of any government to provide for those in need in keeping with their way of life. 
We heard honourable members speaking of the situation in 1948 and comparing the pension rate of that time with the 1971 rate. Pensions should be set to provide a mode of living at the time a person receives the pension. It is wrong to compare the situation today with what existed in 1948 when television, radio and motor cars were virtually unknown in many  homes. Today these items are a part of our way of life and pensions should be adequate to provide these necessities. I could refer to the situation in 1910 and say that the pension was dreadful compared with the 1948 level, but that is a silly argument. It is just plain silly to compare the pension rate of 1948 with the 1971 rate. It is true that there is poverty in other less fortunate countries to which we subscribe quite liberally but I want to make my position clear. I believe that charity begins at home and the first responsibility of a government is to its own people. Poverty should be eliminated firstly in Australia and it should be our aim to ensure that not one Australian lives in want and fear and that they should enjoy above all else freedom from hunger. 
The Government has neglected its responsibility in this field. I believe that Australians should demand a drive to provide adequate social welfare benefits in line with the amendment moved by the Opposition in order that all should enjoy the prosperity and the wealth of Australia which at this time is shared by only the fortunate few. Many have never had it better. Many more have never had it worse. Let us begin at home and abolish poverty and ensure that the pioneers of this country and those in need shall be cared for and protected in their days of distress. By that I do not mean we should give them the pittance that is handed to them under this Bill. We accept gratefully the morsel that has fallen from the great Government's table. We on this side have to accept it. The poor people who want it know that it is not adequate. We know this too but we cannot oppose the legislation and therefore we must accept it for those who are in need. Consequently I condemn the broad concept of this Government's social welfare programme but not the few meagre dollars that it is handing out. 
When one looks at the record of what this Government has not done in the field of social welfare one sees that these handouts are made just tq one section of the community. Earlier I referred to the wife's allowance. It is 3 years since this allowance was increased and 5 years earlier it went from S6 to $7. The guardian's allowance which was introduced in 1965 has never been increased and it probably will not be increased. It was introduced because an election was in the offering at that time. The supplementary assistance commenced at $1 in 1958 but it was not increased for 7 years when it went to $2. It has not been increased in the last 6 years. There are 160,000 people who are dependent on that meagre handout. 
Looking at some of the other items I see an allowance of $20 for funeral benefits. As was mentioned the other day in this place, it ought to be at least $160. The Government has neglected its responsibility in regard to child endowment for the first child; also the unemployment benefit. A man who leaves his job at $40, $50 or $60 a week and who is unemployed for any length of time gets the princely sum of $10. Recently an increase was made to the benefit for an unemployed junior. This benefit is now S6.75 but it had not been increased since 1969 and the last increase before that was in 1957  -  a period of 12 years. This is the pattern of the development of Liberal policies on social welfare. 
If the Government is to achieve the type of society which we want to live in where poverty is abolished and people will be able to live with a reasonable degree of security it will have to move at a faster rate than it is moving at the present time. We on this side are not the only ones who condemn the treatment which the pensioners receive in Australia today. I have in my hand a letter from the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation signed by Irene Ellis, the national honorary secretary. That circular, which was sent to all members of this Parliament, states: 
Firstly, in view of inflation, and in fact, pensioners will become the defenceless victims of the very budgetary measures proposed by your Government - increased telephone charges, postal charges and 2 cents a gallon on petrol will add to inflation and rising prices and largely nullify the Budget pension increases. The Government giving with one hand and taking back with the other by the method of indirect taxation. 
That letter further states: 
This Federation calls for an immediate examination of the whole Australian social service structure and the appointment of a committee to carry out a full scale public inquiry into providing a more humane and equitable pensions system. 
The letter - a copy of which was sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  - also stated: 
Pending this legislation your Government should immediately: 
Amend the Budget to provide for an increase of $5.00 per week in social service pensions and to provide $5 per week for the dependent wife. 
Cancel Budget proposals for increases in indirect taxation - telephone, postal, petrol etc. 
Grant a 50 per cent reduction on telephone rental, call charges and installation to pensioners. 
Time does not permit me in this debate to deal with all these points but here is evidence of condemnation from the organisation set up to protect these people. The Government has plenty of money for everything but what should be its first priority. It has plenty of money for that remarkable aeroplane the Fill that does not fly. That has meant about $500m down the drain. The Government has plenty of money to send men to Vietnam to take part in a war in which they should never have been engaged. The Government has spent a lot of dollars in putting a water spout in Lake Burley Griffin which shoots water 400 feet into the air. Last year the Government gave $27m to the pensioners by way of benefits and it gave $100m to 100,000 wool growers. That is where the Government's priority lies. Certainly the wool growers were entitled to the benefit. They received roughly $1,000 per head but the pensioners each got 50c. 
The Government should get its priorities in order and ensure that those in need, as the Minister for Social Services has said, receive concessions. Taxation concessions are granted to people in this country who do not need them. These people should be forced to pay more tax in order to remove the anomalies that exist. Today, more so than ever before, one almost needs to have a university degree to work out what the pension rate will be. Today when a person asks me what he is entitled to by way of pension I say to him: 'Bring in your bank book, a list of your assets and we will sit down and work it out together.' It is so complicated that the average person cannot work it out. Instead of abolishing the means test and instead of removing the anomalies which exist in this area the Government has retained the means test and built up the anomalies again and again. 
In the limited time left to me in this debate 1 want to make a few comments in regard to this very important legislation. I represent thousands upon thousands of persons who are entirely dependent on the pension. I live amongst them and I see them. These people live in want in a great and prosperous country. Any government, from whichever side of this House it comes, that does not give to these people an equitable pension to enable them to live with a measure of security and comfort in this day and age is not fulfilling its national responsibilities. Regrettably I say to the Minister for Social Services, who has the best intentions in the world, that you have failed because of the gloomy collection of men behind you in the Ministry who do not witness the plight of the pensioners. The honourable member for Isaacs and his friends live in splendour in areas such as Toorak and St Kilda. They do not know the problems of the people in the metropolis of Sydney - in the inner city areas and suburbs. That is why the Minister finds it difficult, because these are the types of men the Liberal Party puts in the Ministry. They are the kind of people the Minister must convince, and they do not even know the problems which he is facing. 
I accept with whatever gratitude I can express the morsel that has been given to those people who are dependent on pensions and social services but I condemn the Government for not accepting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  earlier today. I believe that the Government deserves general condemnation for the contempt in which it has held the pioneers of this country, who made the nation and yet today are denied a reasonably respectable place in society and a reasonable standard of living. Again let me say that I support enthusiastically the amendment of the Opposition. I hope that for once in a way we will see that Liberal independence whereby honourable members opposite can vote as they like - cross the floor and say anything - and nothing will happen to them. For once, let them cast an intelligent vote and support the Opposition's amendment. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration whether his attention has been drawn to the case of an American,  Mr James  O'Leary, his wife and 13 children, who entered Australia on a 2-day visitors' visa and who are now living on their broken-down boat which is moored in a Queensland swamp. Is it a fact that this family was ordered out of Honolulu by the Hawaiian Government and has refused repatriation back to the United States? Furthermore, as  Mr O'Leary  and his family now appear to be illegal immigrants will the Minister state the full facts of the case and what action, if any, is being taken by his Department in relation to this remarkable one-man unassisted mass migration programme? 
Some years ago a former Liberal Party member of this Parliament, when the question of aircraft noise was under discussion, made this astounding statement in respect of those people who live near aerodromes: 'If you elect to live near a pig sty you cannot complain about the stink'. That is precisely the line of argument that has been followed by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who has just resumed his seat, and other supporters of the Government who have participated in this debate tonight. The Government has in effect said that anybody who built a home near a possible aerodrome site years before the aerodrome was contemplated now has to put up with the inconvenience and everything else that goes with aircraft noise. 
I listened to the remarks of supporters of the Government who took part in the debate tonight. What a weird and wonderful collection they were. First we had the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson),  who lives on the north coast of New South Wales. He is one of the people whom the aeroplanes carry over my electorate at midnight and keep half the population awake. Having to look at him in the day time is bad enough, but fancy being woken up for him in the evening! It would be a different matter of course if the aeroplanes were zooming low over the dairy farms of the north coast of New South Wales and the cows stopped giving milk. There would be a revolution in the Australian Country Party. But these aeroplanes can fly over homes in residential areas at any time and nothing is said about them. 
Then we had the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who lives in the splendour and the wealth of the North Sydney atmosphere - Kirribilli and the harbour. He is probably sleeping his head off every night while the people who live in my electorate are kept awake because the Liberal-Country Party Government is doing what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said it is doing, namely, destroying the living conditions of people because of the development of the aerodrome at Mascot. As for the honourable member for Mitchell, one thing is certain and that is that when the Richmond aerodrome becomes a civil aerodrome he will not be with us any more for the simple reason that people do not settle down in harmony alongside those people who allow aeroplanes to be brought into their district. He will find there will be plenty of electors there but they will have a Labor member of Parliament simply because people are fed up with the kind of thing that is happening with the development of Mascot aerodrome. 
I speak tonight as the pioneer of the campaign against aircraft noise in this Parliament. On 9th September 1953, a time when Mascot aerodrome was in my electorate, I presented a petition to the Parliament. Hansard of that date records: 

 Mr DALY presented a petition from certain residents of Mascot, New South Wales, praying that action be taken by the Department of Civil Aviation to alleviate danger and noise from lowflying aircraft in that vicinity. 
That was 18 years ago. On 21st October 1953 I made a further speech in which I said: 
I realise that Mascot is an area over which it is natural to expect to see low-flying aeroplanes, but the fact remains that the residents of the streets concerned have regarded the matter so seriously as to petition this Parliament to take appropriate action, which might include redirecting aircraft by other routes so that they would not pass over this residential area. 
I followed that up with a further speech during the 1953-54 Estimates debate. So tonight I speak with some knowledge of the subject. At that time honourable members laughed when I spoke of low-flying aeroplanes over Mascot. They asked: 'Where else would they fly low?' Since that time it has become a major problem; then they were small aircraft. Tonight we find the report of a committee established in 1969 being tabled and, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said, it does not make any definite findings other than to recommend the expansion of Mascot aerodrome. But the Government is appointing another departmental committee. Having read this report I personally invite every member of the Committee to spend a week at my expense under the flight path of the aeroplanes leaving Mascot. I defy them not to find that everything in this report is false. The expansion of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport is a public scandal and only a dilatory, worn out and discredited government like this would think of expanding it. 
Let us look at the map that is presented of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and the estimated noise exposure forecast. About one-third of my electorate disappears simply to enable Ansett and others to fly into the air at any hour of the day or night. Look at the electorate of KingsfordSmith and others. It is not so much the effect on the electorate as such as the fact that the Department of Civil Aviation is working on a strange theory. As the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said, the Department does not want to shift the aeroplanes; it says: 'Let the people shift'. There are 125,000 people in my district and some half of them would be expected to move out. More than half a million people are involved in the electorates surrounding the Kingsford-Smith aerodrome and yet the committee says we should spend more and expand the aerodrome. The Department of Civil Aviation has a policy which deserves a full investigation by the Minister. It spends millions of dollars on aerodromes and when someone says that an aerodrome ought not be in a particular area the Department says: 'We have spent too much money; we cannot waste the money that is there'. That is the thin edge of the wedge and it is a negative approach to great problems facing the establishment of aerodromes in this country. 
I heard the honourable member for Mitchell say that it is the public interest which is involved. Have not people who live in the proximity of aerodromes and who were established there before aeroplanes became what they are today any rights, any civil liberties or any right to say that their mode of living should be protected? Why do not some honourable members go to the 99 hospitals that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  mentioned and see the people there? Why do they not visit the Reverend Hawkins' homes in my district and hear planes flying over. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  stood up at one of those homes one day and made what I consider for him to be not a really bad speech, but he had to pause again and again as Qantas and others flew their aeroplanes just above his head.  His  golden voice was stilled as we all shuddered at the aircraft noise caused by Mascot aerodrome being where it is and the flight paths being over those homes. But the Minister is young and strong and vigorous. What about the poor old souls who were listening to him? This was happening in the daytime but at night one can go to any church in the Leichhardt, Marrickville and Newtown areas, particularly Leichhardt, and find services being interrupted. Not only that but also shift workers and others find that their sleep is affected and industry disorganised as well as the schools and other instrumentalities. Yet the Government says that it will continue to expand this aerodrome. 
Why is it that there has to be an aerodrome at Mascot? People fly 12,000 miles across the world and then expect to be in Martin Place the minute they step out of the aircraft. That does not happen anywhere else in the world. The committee said in its report that aerodromes are 40, 30 and 27 miles out from the cities in other countries. I think there is a lot to be said for the establishment of aerodromes in Dubbo and places like that. Any government which is looking ahead a bit, any government but this Government which has not a thought in its head, would know that expressways have to be built out to aerodromes. People cannot expect to land right in the centre of the city when they fly across the world. Quite frankly if they have enough money to fly across the world they can afford a taxi into the city from an aerodrome 30 miles out from the city. But why should all the people in my district stay awake just because some person comes into the State for a few minutes? I am a bit with Bolte; I think we can tax them as much as we like because, as he has worked out, those whom he is taxing have not a say in his government and those who come to Mascot and get into another plane will not affect any electorate here. So let them put up with the a bit of inconvenience. 
It is not only the development of Mascot that matters so much but also what goes on within the confines of the aerodrome as it is today. A curfew has been imposed. I wonder whether honourable members know that that curfew applies only for actual flying time. An aircraft is like a runner. Before a race he has to warm up a bit; and so do those aeroplanes. I lie awake in the early hours of the morning and listen to the hum of Ansett's aeroplanes as he sets out to make a few more million dollars. Everybody in Marrickville lies awake listening to the hum of these aeroplanes 3 or 4 miles away. Then at holiday times at 2 o'clock in the morning the airlines have to fly school kiddies or some people or other because that is the only time they can go. The real reason they are flying then is that Ansett and others are applying pressure on the Government to allow them to do so. They want to make money and they put these services on in the early hours of the morning, not caring at all for what the people are suffering underneath the flight path. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  who is interjecting has no sympathy for these people at all because he is one who recommended the lifting of the curfew in Melbourne not so long ago. I personally invite him to be my guest right under the flight path when aircraft take off in the early hours of the morning. Then he will see what is doing. 
The Government states that there is a huge investment involved at Mascot aerodrome and because there are millions involved we cannot possibly shift the aerodrome. What it will do is build parallel runways, as was mentioned here tonight. The honourable member for Cowper - he is not a good authority and it is not a good thing to quote him, I suppose, but at least he took part in the debate - said that aircraft can come in over the sea. But he does not realise that to get round so that they can come in over the sea they have to zoom over Leichhardt, Marrickville and electorates such as Kingsford-Smith and Phillip. Consequently, people are affected no matter what is done. I will go so far as to say, as has been said here tonight, that this committee is just a delaying process, a put off job to allow for a few more million dollars to be spent to make it more difficult to shift the Kingsford-Smith aerodrome. Consequently we can say at this stage that the Government has no plans whatever for the future development of aerodromes in this country. Therefore, when honourable members opposite complacently say. that it does not matter let me remind them that there are about half a million people in the proximity of Mascot aerodrome who are very concerned with this matter. 
Apart from the great qualities of the honourable member for St George and his magnificent intellectual approach to the great problems of this country, one thing which helped him to win his electorate was that the electors knew they had a man who would fight against aircraft noise and the disabilities people suffer under it. As for the former member for St George,  Mr Bosman,  it was terribly sad that he took a flight with Air Japan or some other airline on the eve of the election because this issue in electorates is a vital one and it is one which no government can discard. Apart from the politics involved surely people are entitled to live in a reasonable measure of security from this kind of disturbance during the day or the night. Surely people are entitled to some comfort in their homes. We talk about getting rid of pollution and all these things. What is more important than the health of citizens, their right to sleep at night, their right to carry on their employment without being interrupted and the right for churches and schools to carry on their work? . Surely we cannot ignore the rights of thousands upon thousands of people because aircraft companies want to have aerodromes right in the heart of Sydney. 
I think the report that has been brought down should be rejected or sent back for further consideration by the committee. What is wrong with putting some parliamentarians, who know the practical problems, on one of these committees? These are all departmental committees, probably all appointed by the boss even though the Minister signs his name to the appoint ments to them. We are getting reports on great problems from public servants who are without a real knowledge of what is being done. 
On the question of the Mascot aerodrome, I wonder if the evidence shows that these people have sat down to see what has been caused by noise to people's lives. Have they sat under the flight paths? Have they studied the kind of districts that the flight paths go over? Do they realise that in this area of 1,600 acres it will be practically impossible to move for aeroplanes as time goes by, because it is not sufficient? The big Pan Am aeroplane that crashed not so long ago because a bird got into an engine crashed within 900 feet of one of the most heavily populated areas in my district. Had it run another 900 feet there would have been a great and serious loss of life. Yet this Government says that we are to spend millions on expanding this airport. The DCA says that it has to be done. Evidently there are not too many in the Department who think too much, either. 
The honourable member says that if it went so close to Packer of the 'Daily Telegraph' it would be different. You can bet your boots that the Ansetts and others live a long way from these centres. Yet here today we find a government endorsing a report which proposes to set up another committee and throws out a couple of suggestions as to where Sydney's second airport might be established. Significantly the Government has put into this debate honourable members who are not affected by aircraft noise. No honourable member from the other side of the House who has spoken has any intimate knowledge of what has actually happened in relation to this matter. 
I did not bring my files to the Parliament tonight. Quite honestly, I would nearly want a truck to carry them in, so many complaints have I got. The complaints 1 receive are mounting. I receive complaints about television being affected and about the effect on people's sleep all because an aerodrome that was meant for Moths and small engined aircraft in days gone by is now being turned into a monster terminal by this Government because its administrators are too lazy or are not intelligent enough to find another centre for an airport. With other honourable members on this side of the Parliament 1 condemn the proposal and I congratulate the honourable members for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  Kingsford Smith and St George for the devastating way in which they have ripped to ribbons this report presented by the Government, which has completely repudiated its responsibility to protect the lives of people by allowing this airport to be continued and expanded. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in condemning this Budget. 1 think the House is indebted to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  for his knowledgeable and penetrating analysis of the Government's proposals. Clearly he tore to ribbons the policy enunciated in this Budget which was out of date the moment it was introduced. As the honourable member said, the Budget provides amongst other things for an expenditure of about $S,833m. It imposes vicious increases in personal income tax, telephone charges, postage, petrol and cigarette prices, television and radio licences, medical dispensing charges and the prices of a few other items. It gives the very minimum in the way of benefits in respect of child endowment, pensions and assistance to rural industry and education. As I said during the debate on the Social Services Bill the Budget still excludes from any benefits whatever about 181,000 part pensioners. 
In every way it is a Budget that does nothing to prevent inflation which has been caused by the policy of this Government; it does nothing to relieve those suffering from inflation and it gives little relief at all to those who are dependent on social services. But the Budget gives us the opportunity to speak on a number of things. At this stage of the debate I think that the financial aspect of the Budget has been well covered by speakers on this side of the House. But we have to look a little behind the curtain: we have to look at those who framed the Budget, at the record of the Government, at its internal dissension and at the things associated with its economic programme. We have to look at those who brought this programme about and who, because of their disunity, are at this stage completely destroying the trust reposed in them by the Australian people. 
Probably at no time since 1951 or the recession of 1961 has such an economic crisis faced Australia. At least that is what we are told by those who know. The rural industry is in ruins, inflation has run riot, the value of money is rapidly disappearing and all sections of the community are alarmed at our economic prospects. Unemployment is rising. Even the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  prophesied that the level of unemployment would be over 100,000 at the commencement of the new year. In addition we are still engaged in Vietnam and the great issues of development, immigration and other national problems face the nation. 
To handle this situation and to face the crisis is possibly the most discredited government of our time. It is a government of bits and pieces. The Prime Minister is without the support and confidence of his Party and in its ranks are members who are bent on destroying him and who are riddled with hatred and animosity. This in itself makes stable government impossible and unless there is an election and a change of government the outlook for Australia will indeed be grim. You know.  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I would compare the Liberal Party today as to, say. a family at war under the benevolent parternity of the father of the year, or in more colloquial terms the daddy of 'em all. The Party even numbers in its ranks prodigal sons like the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is at. the table, and outcasts such as those who sit on the back bench. I suppose we could number the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  and his colleagues among the black sheep of the family. I wonder whether the father of the year is regarded as a father figure, popularly welcomed by the family at the start of each sitting day to the tune of 'Oh my papa'. I wonder if this happens. 
To add to the worries of the Liberal Party it has had. a shotgun wedding with the Australian Country Party and the honeymoon is over; the marriage has broken up and the decline of rural industries is a striking tribute to the Government's illgotten policies of the last 20 years. Every time I look at the honourable member for Mallee I feel that the Liberal Party must think to some extent as I do. I would say that the Australian Country Party would remind most people of an appendix. Like the Country Party, that organ is, in the first place, perfectly useless; in the second place it is generally unpredictable; and in the third place it is always a possible centre of inflammation. The Country Party is the second leg of the Government. 
Let us have a look at the ministerial circus that has brought the Budget before us. In less than 4 years Australia has had 3 Prime Ministers, 4 Ministers for Defence, 5 Ministers for Foreign Affairs and 3 Treasurers. Even since March - 6 months ago - we have had 2 Prime Ministers and another one is coming up. 
Since March we have had 3 Ministers for Foreign Affairs, 3 Ministers for Defence, 3 Ministers for Health, 3 Ministers for Education and Science, 3 AttorneysGeneral, 2 Treasurers, 2 Ministers for Labour and National Service, 2 Ministers for Immigration, 2 Ministers for the Navy, 2 Ministers for Housing, 2 Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs and 2 Ministers for Supply. This makes 31 changes at more than one a week. If that is not a razzle-dazzle and a musical chairs proposition then I am a Dutchman. This has all happened without an election, lt is no longer true to say in the Liberal Party that it is easier to get into Cabinet than to get out of it. Members and Ministers are giddy and uncertain. This is a record of instability without precedent in Australian history and intolerable in this democracy of ours. There has been purge after purge. Ministers have not been chosen on ability but on how they voted. The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who is interjecting, could not pick a winner anyway with all of those changes. 
It is said that the staff of the Ministers are asking for danger money such is the precarious nature of their job. It is known in Canberra today that departmental heads have rung the Minister and could not remember who was there yesterday. This is the Government that tells us that it knows how to run the nation. What a tragedy - what a shocking state of affairs! This is the Government that boasts of stability and leadership. We heard the Prime Minister say during question time this morning that we want statesmanship in this country. We do want statesmanship but we will not get it from those changes. 
There is a Ministry of 27 and there are 6 Assistant Ministers as well as a Cabinet in exile on the back benches. One cannot say that we are not under-governed in this Parliament. Let us have a look at the Cabinet in exile on the back bench. This group is made up of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  an exPrime Minister; the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  an exAttorneyGeneral; the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who was a Treasurer and a Minister for Foreign Affairs; the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  a former Minister for the Navy; the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  a former Minister for the Navy; the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  who was the Leader of the House and a Minister for Air; the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer),  a former Minister for the Army; and not to leave the Country Party out of it, the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann),  a former Minister for Primary Industry. Looking them over, I find they are a much brighter lot than those who sit on the front bench at this time. That is not saying much but it is the best compliment I can pay them. 
To add to our woes, with 31 changes and a Cabinet in exile, we have 6 Assistant Ministers. They are the honourable members for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  Wimmera  (Mr King),  Cowper  (Mr Robinson),  Corangamite  (Mr Street), Senator Marriott  and above all else the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr Macleay),  the revolutionary republican Rhodesian Mounted Rifles man. He campaigned against the sovereignty of the Queen with the Rhodesian people. 1 know that Ministers want assistance but putting that lot in to help them is a frightening prospect for anybody in this country. Let us look at the newspaper articles that we are reading at this time. The former Prime Minister decided that he would write his memoirs, so I am told. Of course, the Prime Minister, after reading the first fnstalment, according to the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' - the paper you can trust - on 13th August 1971, said: 
This afternoon I asked  Mr Gorton,  the Minister for Defence, to see me about his decision to write a series of articles for the 'Sunday Australian', the first of which has already been published. I informed him that in my opinion, his action breached the basic principle of Cabinet solidarity and unity and reflected on the integrity of some Ministers. 
Following that the Prime Minister wrote this letter: 'My Dear John, Oh, how 1 hate to write. You know, we all know, that you must leave me tonight.' Then he ran down and subsequently the right honourable member for Higgins resigned. We know how it was done. A big axe, a little knife and he disappeared almost immediately. I now want to pose this question to the Prime Minister: How much longer can he, the Liberal Party and the Government tolerate a situation in which the former Prime Minister writing in a national newspaper denigrates senior members of Cabinet whose responsibility it is to run the country? I understand that the right honourable member for Higgins has been highly paid for these articles. I do not criticise him for taking payment because, according to open confessions made in the Parliament recently by certain prominent personalities it appears that the occupation of part-time journalist for some fortunate members provides a lucrative supplement to their parliamentary salaries. In my own case, I am not flattered to think that not only do I not get paid for any articles but I have never been asked to write any. Let us look at a few comments of the right honourable member for Higgins in regard to his colleagues. This is what he had to say of his colleagues in the 'Sunday Australian' of 8th August: 
From time to time Cabinet Ministers have shown themselves so uncertain of their own opinions that they have chosen to canvass the value of impending legislation far beyond the Cabinet room, indeed beyond the confines of Parliament altogether. . . . Others are afflicted with the compulsion to try out ideas on their wives. 
A petticoat government. What do honourable members think of that? That was written by the former Prime Minister and he should know. Now I come to the Minister for Defence who is at the table. He is a likeable, nice, decent type of fellow. We all like him. But listen to what the former Prime Minister had to say about him when writing in the 'Sunday Australian' on 22nd August 1971: 
He could not in any one's imagination be thought to pose a competitive threat. He was well liked, painstaking, and basically honest, but was so pedestrian, conservative and slow thinking, that it could never have seriously occurred to anyone outside his domestic circle to imagine he had the capacity to head a government. Nor was he an ambitious man. 
I do not like it. It is hard when that is said about you by your own kith and kin. After thinking (hat of him he offered him a job in Paris or London.  Sir Alec  Downer must be upset to think he could be replaced by a pedestrian, conservative and slow thinking Minister. The right honourable member for Higgins then went on to deal with the present Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  that distinguished tall figure. In the 'Sunday Australian' on 29th August 1971 he said: 
Malcolm Fraser, the new Minister for Education, and former Defence Minister is a wealthy grazier from Victoria's western district. The possessor of inherited wealth and an only son, things have been easy for him. He is tall and good looking. 
That is open to doubt. He continued: 
He is a hard-working Minister with a capacity for application to detail. A strong-willed man, he is inclined to be abrasive to subordinates who disagree with him and to be petulant if he does not get his own way. 
I have always felt that he has considerable ability and have also felt that nobody rates that ability quite as high as he does. 
One must admit that the former Prime Minister has a discerning mind. Then he went on to say: 
He has a reputation for aloofness which may perhaps stem from his unusual height- 
He is a long way from you when he talks to you -  but the most outstanding impression he gives is that of a man wilh no sense of humour and  a  lack of warmth in human relationships. 
What a remark to make about a man he has put in the Ministry and, one would have thought, admired. What a come-down it must be for this great man to think that this has been laid at his door by his former leader. I understand it was feared at one time that the former Prime Minister might run right through the list of Cabinet personnel and it was thought he might have got to the Prime Minister. We on this side of the Parliament were waiting with bated breath for this instalment on the Prime 
Minister. Had he written of the present Prime Minister I think this is what the right honourable member for Higgins would have said: 
The Prime Minister is a man of considerable ability - charming in a strange kind of waydevious in political intrigue. A man devoted to physical fitness. He reveals extraordinary skill with the scalpel and the axe. He is also a man of great ambition but devoid of performance. 1 know he would have written something like that, probably a little harsher, but it might have run that way. However, he has been stopped. I have quoted from the comments. Surely the people of Australia are entitled to know whether the Prime Minister of the day - nobody knows who will be there tomorrow - supports these views. He has the responsibility to speak up for these men written about by the right honourable member for Higgins or say whether he endorses what the previous leader has said. How long can a country tolerate a government with a former Prime Minister sitting on the back bench undermining morale and plotting like MacArthur for his return to the corridors of power while the Prime Minister does nothing about it? Any Prime Minister who does not take action in regard to these matters should neither command nor will he command the respect of Australian people and should not be trusted with the Prime Ministership of this country. I am not reading what members of the Australian Labor Party say or what is said by the capitalist Press or the paper you can trust. They are the statements of the former Prime Minister about his own ministerial colleagues. The honourable member for Wentworth, the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 11th August as saying that the Party at present did not have a leader who carried genera) conviction and was trusted by the majority. What a comment that is. The report continues: 
There isn't someone who is a natural leader of men who is around mc with the necessary experience and technique.' 
He went on to say: 'Cabinet leaks like a ruddy sieve now and this must break down the trust people in Cabinet had in each other.' He believed this, reflected a decline in the standard of honesty and decent behaviour. 
This is out of the mouth of a man whom the former Prime Minister thought was good enough to be the Minister for Foreign Affairs of this country. The honourable member for Berowra is reported in the Daily Mirror' on 11th August as saying: 
The Liberal Party would wreck itself if it tried to sack the Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton.  Anyone who tries to move against  Mr Gorton  needs his head read. The Party is in a fragile position. 
It has been like it for years as a matter of fact. It continues: 
If  anyone wants to wreck it this is the way to go about it. 
Then in the 'Australian' on 12th August he was reported to have said: 
The Liberal Party seems bent on an orgy ot self-destruction, If we don't stop all this soon we shall certainly find ourselves on the Opposition benches. 
Then on 17th August in the 'Australian' the former Minister for the Navy, the honourable member for Moreton said: 
The Liberal Party must put itself in control of its own affairs. If prejudice of affection or dislike is to be in control then the Party will limp towards disaster. 
In the 'Daily Telegraph' on 11 th August he was reported to have said: 
There are people today pretending they are fervent supporters of  Mr McMahon.  Look, you should have heard them three or four years ago when it was very hard to get any support for  Mr McMahon.  We could have held a meeting of them in a telephone box. 
The 'Daily Telegraph' then went on to say: 
He said he did not believe it was now up In  Sir Frank  Packer or anyone else to be picking whom should be Ministers in any government. 
Even the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  came out of his hole, so to speak, and said he did not believe the Liberal Party could do without  Mr Gorton.  I do not think  Mr Gorton  thought so either. As reported in the 'Australian' on 12th August he said: 
The Patty is in a fragile condition. If anybody wants to set out on an orgy of self-destruction let him do it. 
What a tragic state of affairs for a government which has said it is running the country to be condemned all over the place by its own members and Ministers and yet seeking confidence. 
The Liberal Party these days has gone into music and everything is done to melodies, I am told. For instance, the former Prime Minister writes his weekly life story under the title of a melody made famous by Frank Sinatra, '1 did it my way". 
This opens up interesting possibilities as to how others will write their life stories. We might yet hear the honourable member lor Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  who happens to be temporarily absent, writing his memoirs under the title of that lilting tune, T used to love you but it's all over now*. Even the honourable member for Berowra might come to light under the title 'Somebody else has taken my place'. Then the Leader of the Country Party, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  would no doubt write under the title 'Has anybody here seen Kelly' or 'I'd like to get you on a slow boat to China'. No doubt the honourable member for Wentworth may ultimately come to light under the title What kind of fool am I'. The Prime Minister has already indicated his leanings when writing for the resignation of the former Minister for Defence. He said 'Dear John, you know how I hate to write'. He may of course finally decide that his memoirs would go better under the title Anything he can do I can do better'. In the turbulent days ahead for the Liberal Party its meetings might well conclude with the Party members rising and singing the chorus of 'Alexander's Ragtime Band' or maybe to paraphrase the words of a famous tune, 'Faction Fights are Breaking up that Old Gang of Mine'. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, we notice these things and they do show that there is a certain amount of disunity on the other side of the Parliament. If I might coin a phrase, I am sorry for this once great Party. I am sorry to see it split asunder, riddled with dissension and these things happening. My distinguished friend, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  a man of considerable ability and achievement, was opposed by the long talking but rather quiet member for Darling Downs  (Mr Swartz)  for the position of  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party. Supporters of  Mr Swartz  are pushing the line that the Party needs a quiet, loyal uncontroversial man like him to help rebuild unity for the next elections. It was not that he had done too much. It was that he had not done anything. That was what appealed to most of the members of the Liberal Party. The Treasurer survived the ballot, but disunity has carried through to the very final episode of this great crusade that was started by certain members of the Liberal Party to cleanse and remove the former Prime Minister. 
Even at this moment members of the Liberal Party are threatened with losing their preselection. We read headlines such as 'Liberals may drop Hughes and Bates' and 'Twenty-one Liberals resign'. Here we rind in the Parliament a Budget brought down at the time of greatest crisis in this country by a Government which is merely hanging together, with 31 changes in the Ministry, riddled with dissension and hatreds, members disappearing and hiding from each other and yet claiming to have the confidence of the Australian people. The Government deserves to be condemned. It is a government of bits and pieces. Members of the Government Parties have no place on the Treasury bench of this Parliament. Therefore I support enthusiastically the resolution moved to condemn the Budget. I hope that this amendment is carried, and then we will have a new government prepared to give unity, solidarity, statesmanship and leadership to the Australian people. 
In his second reading speech on the National Service Bill the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
The Bill gives effect to the Government's decision to reduce the period of full-time national service from 2 years to 18 months, as announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 18th August. 
He said later in his speech that conscription was introduced in 1964 and he then made this amazing statement: 
Subsequent developments have fully vindicated the Government's judgment. 
Nothing is further from the truth than that statement because the Government's judgment has never been vindicated but has been condemned by every section of responsible opinion in this country. The fact of the matter is that conscription was introduced to support the commitment this Government entered into when its arm was twisted by the American Government to enter the war in Vietnam - a war which has not yet been terminated, an undeclared war to which Australia should never have contributed in any way. 
We are now told that the period of national service training is to be reduced from 2 years to 18 months. There were a few other alterations to the Act mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech but that is the major one. Far from being penitent over the loss of about 470 Australian lives and the wounding of 4,000 or more, Government supporters are saying that their sending of these young men to war has been vindicated. By conscripting Australians to fight in Vietnam and now by reducing the period of service to 18 months one would think that they had made a major contribution to the welfare of the nation. This legislation is the follow-on from the introduction of conscription in 1964 for the commitment to the war in Vietnam entered into by this country. It was because of the 'all the way with LBJ' policy enunciated by this Government that it was committed to conscription. As the Minister stated, at this stage 16,000 conscript national service trainees comprise a large proportion of the 44,000 men in the Army. 
The real reason for the introduction of conscription in the first place, apart from our commitment to Vietnam, was not that it was ever necessary but that it was the easy way out for the Government and the easy way for the Army authorities to pick the best out of the young men of this nation. Australians should never forget that this Government, which said that our security and future independence was challenged by the menace from the north - and Vietnam was cited as an example - saw fit to call up only a section of the 20-year olds of this country and place on them the full responsibility for the defence of this nation. At a time when the Government said that this country was in real danger it thought so little about it that it said 'business as usual at home', yet 10 per cent of those of 20 years of age had their names drawn out of a barrel in a lottery which became known as the lottery of death. 
This was opposed by the Labor Party - to its credit - right from its inception and when we become the government next year national service training will be abolished and we will raise a volunteer army to defend this country, an army with adequate pay and conditions and all that goes with it. As honourable members well know the Government at this stage does not seem to want volunteers in the Army. I think about 70 per cent of the young men called up are rejected because the Government looks for men with the physical condition of  Olympic  athletes. The 'Australian' of 20th August had something to say about conscripts and the war for which they were called up to fight. It stated: 
With  its withdrawal of  Australian  armed forces from Vietnam, with the exception apparently of some advisers, the Government is doing no more than putting right the wrong it did 6 years ago. In this time, successive prime ministers have used our commitment less for the South Vietnamese than for their own political advantage. 
For their own political ends 470-odd Australians are dead, more than half of them conscripted national service trainees. Even though the Government says it is withdrawing the men from that area, unfortunately 5 died a few days ago and 25 were injured. The article continued: 
A Prime Minister who seems to have  so  little  to  say about his own country's future is not likely to have given much thought to the future of IndoChina. Still, some of us expected him to disclose on Wednesday night the broad sweep at least of the future for which more than 470 young Australians have given their lives. 
It goes on to say: 
During this period - 
That is the time of the war  political life in America, Australia and New Zealand has been preoccupied with whether or not the commitment was morally justified or even militarily sensible. To hear  Mr McMahon,  though, there is no argument about it. 
Another article in the 'Australian' of 20th August refers to the war in Vietnam and to the reduction of troops there. The article states: 
No fewer than 419 Australians have been killed in action and a further 2,860 wounded. Another 70 are listed as non-battle deaths, with an addi tional 726 injured or ill. It cost us $2 15m to wage the war over the past 9 years. What the Government calls success, the other side, represented by the  Deputy  Opposition Leader,  Mr Barnard,  terms 'an unparalleled disaster'. 
How true was the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in that statement. Why was Australia ever committed to this war? Why were national service trainees ever called up? Why were men conscripted to fight in the paddy fields of Vietnam and other places? 
While all this was happening, the Country Party thought little of Australia selling its wheat and wool to and feeding and clothing those people who were termed our enemies. At the same time, with double standards, the Government conscripted the elite of Australian manhood to fight in Vietnam for a cause which the Government said endangered our future but which the whole world now knows was not the position at all. For instance, we have found that had it not been for this Government offering troops to the South Vietnamese Government, Australia would never have been involved in the war. All Australia did was to back up the American approach and policy. The policy of this Government became 'All the way with LBJ' and Australia found that it was committed because it was felt that in a time of crisis the United States of America might come to our aid. Today, the United States Government in every aspect of its policy is showing how much it thinks of Australia's support in Vietnam.  Senator Fulbright  visited Australia and said that he did not know we had men in Vietnam, although 8,000 of our men were faced with the prospect of death. 
In addition to that, America in the field of aviation is waving the big stick over Qantas Airways Ltd and other companies. It has embargoes on certain of our products and even the members of the Australian Country Party are up in arms about this. America's gratitude has been extremely short lived. Australia was silly enough to be the only white nation in the world to go in and fight in support of America in the paddy fields of Vietnam. Is this not a tragic commentary on this Government? Is it not a shocking thing and a scandal that men are in gaol today as a result of this policy? Charles Martin in Adelaide, Gary Cook in Perth and Geoff Mullen in Sydney are serving 2 years hard labour for the simple reason that they objected to the war in Vietnam, a war which has been condemned in mass demonstrations here, as in practically every other country, because people know that Australia should never have been engaged in it. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has refused to agree to an amendment which would have released some of these men from gaol. The very least the Government can do is to release them immediately because if any man is prepared to serve 2 years in gaol, in my book he is a fair and sincere conscientious objector against this conflict and docs not deserve to have any penalty imposed on him. Yet these men rot in gaol while the Government boasts of how successful its war has been and how it is reducing the term of national service. This is nothing short of a national scandal and the Government deserves to be condemned for it. There has been no contrition from Government supporters. Every one of them has told us how it is necessary to defend the country, what the Government is doing as a government and what Labor would not do. 
I do not like to stir the embers of the past but had the Government not been defeated in another political generation in 1941, Australia would have been under Japanese domination today. In 1941 the Government was thrown out of office by its own supporters because it COUld not prepare this country to defend itself in the time of threatened invasion. As I mentioned in this Parliament recently, the manner in which the Government is changing Ministers is rather like a hurdy-gurdy. Because this debate relates to defence, I repeat, as honourable members know, that in the last 4 years there have been 4 Ministers for Defence. In fact, in the last 6 months, there have been 3 Ministers for Defence. That is great stability for the armed forces. The average man serving in the armed forces would not have time to know who is his Minister before that Minister was replaced. Since March, there have been 3 Ministers for Defence and changes in policy. Ministers are changed almost as often as one changes one's shirt. The Navy is a real old whipping horse, as it were. There have been 2 Ministers for the Navy since the beginning of the year. The Navy portfolio is given to any member the Government may want to get rid of at any old time. An important service like the Navy is treated as though it does not matter at all. Yet the Government is boasting about what it is doing in regard to defence, is criticising the Labor Party and is changing its Ministers almost monthly. 
Even during the last 4 years when the Government said it had a reasonable amount of stability, there have been 4 Ministers for Defence. The Government consistently tells us how much it is spending on defence, how much it has boosted up the amount allocated in the Budget for national service training and all these kind of things. However, what is important is not how much is spent on defence; but what is actually done with the money. It took the Government a long time to provide the adequate pay and conditions which have just been announced for certain sections of the Services. There would be no need for conscription at any time if adequate benefits were given to men in the Services, who are prepared to fight for the country and to be available in peace or war. Yet the Government took the cheap way out and today, to its eternal discredit and in the face of public opinion, it does not admit that it was wrong to commit troops to Vietnam. The whole world knows the Government deserves to be condemned for that action. I do not know of any section of society in this country which supports our continued commitment to Vietnam. This is also the case in Great Britain. In America there have been violent demonstrations against America's involvement in this conflict. We in this part of the world - the only nation which was prepared to support America - are now treated as though we had no men there at all. As an article in one paper recently said - about 400 deaths later, 4,000 wounded men later and some years after the first entry of Australian troops to Vietnam - it is realised that we should never have been there. 
Is it not a scandalous state of affairs that, instead of Government supporters apologising to the Parliament as they should be doing, they are almost arrogant in respect of what has been done and they still stress the necessity of these actions? I should like the Minister to reveal to this Parliament what the future of the national service training scheme will be. Are the boys who have been called up under this out of the barrel proposal to be sent to any war anywhere in Asia or elsewhere? At least I do agree with the former Prime Minister and Minister for Defence, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  when he stated in his article 'I Did It My Way' that he did not want Australia to be involved in every second rate war in Asia and elsewhere. This is to his credit and it is a sound policy. There is no mandate for this Government to commit Australian forces, particularly conscripted forces, to other parts of the world when Australia is not in danger. Therefore, I add my condemnation of the Government's policy on national service training and for its involvement in Vietnam. 
Naturally, I record with a certain amount of pleasure that the period of national service has been reduced to 18 months. However, if honourable members opposite support the amendment which will be moved by the Opposition, national service will be terminated completely in the not too distant future. Honourable members opposite should do this. No Minister of this Government should sleep peacefully at night while men languish in gaol because they would not go to a war which has no support in this country or anywhere else in the world. No government deserves the support of the Australian people when it conscripts young men to fight in a war, not because it felt the nation wanted them there but because it was following blindly the foreign policies of another country. Whether Government supporters like it or not, the Prime Minister of Australia hedged at all questions about invitations to participate in the Vietnam war, but when the correspondence was revealed, it boiled down to that well known phrase 'They had their arm twisted'. When its arm was twisted, the Government agreed to accept the offer to go into Vietnam. Because of this, men have died in Vietnam. Men who have been conscripted have died in the paddy fields of Vietnam and today their families mourn them, no doubt with pride, because they gave their all. But the tragedy is that these men should never have been there at all. Other men have been wounded and maimed for life because of this conflict in which Australia should never have been engaged. 
While the Government talks of reducing the period of national service and of withdrawing our troops from .Vietnam, men still languish in gaol. This is a shocking policy to be followed by any government. The Government deserves to be condemned and in the Committee stages the Opposition will confront the Government with important amendments to the National Service Act. This will give the Government an opportunity to make some recompense for what it has brought to this country because of the conflict in Vietnam. I was present in the House on the night when the Australian Labor Party opposed the conscription proposals of this Government to meet our involvement in Vietnam. I am proud of my Party and it is to its eternal credit that it has stood firm on this issue right through, despite bitter attacks from the Government. The Opposition has been justified by the results. The conflict is coming to an end so far as Australia is concerned. The Labor Party's opposition to Australia's commitment of forces to Vietnam has been vindicated in every way. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What was the population of (a) each State and Territory and (b) Australia on (i) 30th June 1902 and (ii) 30th June 1971. 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present the Committee's report on proposals for variations of the plan for the layout of the City of Canberra as gazetted in 1925, the 48th series of variations. I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection therewith. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)There being no objection leave is granted. 
The report I have tabled is the second of its kind anddeals with proposals of the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Interior for varying some roads within the City of Canberra. Honourable members will be aware of the requirement for approval of Parliament to be given before the gazetted plan of 1925 may be varied and the responsibility for scrutinising such proposals rests with the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. This Report is an historic one and I draw the attention of honourablemembers to the fact that of the 23 proposals submitted in this, the 48th series, oneof the proposals remains under consideration by the Committee and, consequently, no recommendation is made in respectof this particular proposal. The remaining 22 proposals are recommended for implementation. 
We were not satisfied with the explanations given in connection- with a proposal to relocate the road known as Pialligo 
Avenue, which provides access to Canberra airport and for traffic between Canberra and Queanbeyan and beyond. The relocation of the road was said to be necessary to enable a runway extension on the southern end of the main north-south runway. As this matter is still before the Committee I will not enlarge on the considerations before us beyond saying that this is an example of the need for close scrutiny of development proposals. The people of Canberra are fortunate in having such dispassionate overview of planning proposals and honourable Members and citizens can be assured of the close attention given these matters when they come before this very effective parliamentary committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I want to make a few well chosen remarks about the legislation before the House,, and you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  may be assured that not in any way shall I contravene your wise rulings. I listened to the speeches of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and other honourable members and I am in complete agreement with those who believe that the Department of Civil Aviation has capitulated completely to the United States Civil Aeronautics Board in regard to the agreement concerning flights of  747  aircraft on the Pacific run. If anything was a shotgun arrangement it was the capitulation by the Department of Civil Aviation to the American authorities in regard to this matter. I agree with what the honourable member for Newcastle said at the time. Until such time as our  747  aircraft were allowed to use American airports no Pan American  747  should have been allowed to come into this country. That would have been a respectable and reasonable approach to the problem because when all is said and done our great and powerful friends stood over the Department of Civil Aviation and got away with murder and Qantas is suffering accordingly. 
Qantas is a remarkable airline. It has been built up in this country after being established by a Labor government. It is a credit to this great nation and ranks as one of the major airlines in the world today. Yet we have it being told where it will fly and where it will not fly by authorities in America who have as much to lose as we have. I wonder what the American authorities or the Civil Aeronautics Board would have said if we had said that no Pan American  747  fights to this country would be allowed until Australia got the rights it sought in respect of aircraft of that type. I think they would have been brought to their knees. Instead we are the victims of standover tactics which bring little credit to the Department of Civil Aviation and our negotiators because they have capitulated in the face of threats which I think they should have stood up to. 
lt was in effect the Government. I think the Government is ashamed and a bit frightened of what it has done because the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has never reported to the Parliament on this subject. It is easy for  Senator Cotton  to make a statement outside . this place but never has the Government come to the Parliament to make an announcement about this agreement. I do not say it was shady but certainly it was an indication of guilt over the tactics employed by the Government leading to the signing of these arrangements when it knew full well it could have done, a lot better. It is significant that throughout the dealings the Department of Civil Aviation . and the Government - this is what the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and others were speaking about - never considered the interests and welfare of the people generally. No matter who the governmental authority is which is negotiating these matters, whether it be the flights of aircraft or the routes they shall follow, the Government seems to put second the interests of this country and the people in it. The honourable member for Chifley a few moments ago dealt specifically with Article 44 of the Schedule to the Air Navigation Act. It states that it is the Government's responsibility to encourage the development of airways, airports and air navigation facilities for international civil aviation and to meet the needs of the people of the world for safe, efficient and economical air transport as well as to prevent economic waste caused by unreasonable competition and a number of other major items closely connected with the operation of aircraft throughout the world. 
But what do we find? Even in the establishment of airports the Government is found wanting. After it appointed a committee which sat for a long period and brought in a lengthy report, the Government did not reach any conclusion other than to say that it would set up another comittee to have a look at the first committee's recommendations. The first committee limited its recommendations for a second Sydney airport to two sites, Richmond and Somersby, and then the 
Government authorised the new committee to have another look at the matter. Even the 'Daily Telegraph', the paper you can trust, had this to say about it: 
The . Federal Government's decision to further develop Mascot Airport is sensible. 
Then it went on to deal with the report and said: 
But while accepting the wisdom of extending and developing Mascot, other aspects of the statement must be questioned. If it is known, and accepted, that a second airport must be built, then firm plans and time schedules should be formulated. 
It seems a bit sloppy to propose a Commonwealth-State investigation to decide whether to have an airport at Richmond or Somersby, and then add that the Committees should also investigate any other areas that merited consideration. 
I will tell honourable members why this is so. As was said by the honourable member for Chifley, this Government is busy protecting its own members. It cannot afford to lose a seat and the decision that was made protects the liberal members from the North Shore, the Gold Coast of Liberal politics in Australia, comprising electorates such as Bradfield, Mackellar, Bennelong, North Sydney and Warringah. Honourable members can see the interest which the honourable member for Mackellar, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  takes in the proceedings now that aircraft will not be flying over his electorate. If he lived at Mascot or Leichhardt or Marrickville he would not be sleeping like he does at this time of the night because the jets would be zooming over that area. These Liberal members have brought pressure to bear on the Government to transfer these facilities elsewhere. 
I mention this to show that in every aspect of civil aviation development the Ministers and the Government are found lacking. The interests of the Australian people are second as long as the Government can kowtow to the powerful interests behind the airline operators in the world today. I have received a heart rending letter from a member of my constituency and I will read it to the House in order to show the neglect and contempt that this Government has shown for people in Leichhardt, Marrickville and other areas in the great electorate which I represent in Sydney where, because of expansion of 
Kingsford-Smith Airport and facilities there, aircraft are zooming low over their homes at all hours of the day and night. Listen to this letter  Mr Minister  and listen wisely. The Minister should think how guilty he and the men behind him are for the suffering they are bringing to the people of my district and surrounding districts. This letter came to me today dated 28th September 1971 and reads: 
Dear  Mr Daly, 
Between 11.00 p.m. and 11.30 p.m. Monday 20th September 1971 and 11.00 p.m. and 11.30 p.m. last night, jet aircraft departed from Mascot and woke me up. 
On both nights I 'phoned the airport and complained. 
I would appreciate you - obtaining from the appropriate Minister an explanation why my family and I had to experience the two disturbances? - asking are these nights to be established on a regular basis thus flouting the curfew arrangement? - have it established with the Minister and members of his staff right down to the folk who take my calls at Mascot that 
I am not a 'crank' or 'nui" 
I like most people need a few hours uninterrupted sleep if I am to give of my best to the community and when abruptly awakened for no good purpose, I tend to be irritable. 
May I add that the place where I work, i.e. 67 Lord's Road, Leichhardt, is directly under a Mascot flight path and every day whilst at my job I am subjected to the most frightful noises created by monstrous jet aircraft which fly very low overhead. 
You may care to explain to the Minister that for me to obtain the relief I seek I would have to change my job and relocate my home. Neither of which J desire to do. 
That man is one of thousands in the electorate of Kingsford-Smith, St George, Barton and Grayndler. They total roughly about half a million and they are vitally affected by the location of aerodromes and their expansion. Yet the Minister and the Government postpone making a decision only to suggest finally that the location of a new airport be in populous areas instead of moving it well out into the country areas and providing feeder services. But what does the Minister intend to do about the thousands of people who are affected? These include elderly and sick people in Leichhardt homes who are awake at night because the airlines want to make profits. The curfew is a colossal joke. In Melbourne aircraft are flying 24 hours a day and it is practically the same at Mascot. At holi day times, such as next weekend, at all hours of the day and night one will find aircraft flying in and out of Sydney's Mascot and other aerodromes simply because the airline operators say that the people want to fly and it is, therefore, only reasonable to allow them to do so. Let people fly within the curfew hours because they have no special rights. 
The amazing thing about aircraft noise and airports generally is that a local council can put a man out of business if he creates a bit of noise in his backyard in a residential suburb. Yet jets can zoom over people's homes and destroy the living conditions of thousands of people and the Government says that nothing can be done about it. I would like to see somebody in this country test some of these operators in a court of law. I am pretty certain something could be done about it because there must be some protection for them similar to that given to residents by local councils under local government regulations. That is why we on this side of the Parliament not only support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle but also condemn the Government's dilatory approach to the general question of civil aviation in this country and its complete lack of planning in order to provide, under Article 44, the safety and the needs in regard to aircraft generally. The reason I rose tonight once again is to give expression to my views on the fact that the Government has no plan at all for the future. When parallel runways are constructed at Mascot into Botany Bay the areas adjacent to my electorate will be unlivable and I do not intend to sit in this Parliament and remain silent while this is happening to people of all ages who are vitally affected by this menace. 
I hope that the Minister for National Development, before he resumes his seat after replying to the debate tonight, will give us the full details regarding the Government's capitulation to the demands by Pan Am over the Pacific route. I ask him to explain why he did not bring this matter to the Parliament and why the Government has a guilty conscience about it. It is ashamed of the proposals. I ask: For how much longer on everything from wool, wheat and the routes which aeroplanes fly is this Government going to bow down and go on its knees to the great American nation simply because it is frightened of the power which the Americans have? How long will it remain the Government if it just goes along and does not put up a fight for the things that Australians want? 
But above all else, in the field of aircraft noise, the establishment of aerodromes and the future planning regarding them, this Government has a responsibility to tell the people now about these matters and to plan immediately to remove this menace from people in all walks of life. Tonight I join in the condemnation of the Government's attitude on this matter. We ask for a reasonable reply, not for a letter containing a number of pages. Every time I write to the Minister I receive a reply containing about 3 pages. I sit down for an hour or two to read it, but in the end I am no wiser than I was before because it is a put-off all the time. Therefore, I suggest to the Minister that on everything from aircraft noise to the routes which planes will follow, it is about time that the Department of Civil Aviation got up to date and with the Government's support did something for the people whom the Government has the responsibility to govern. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. By way of explanation I mention that I have received a letter from the General Secretary of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council concerning the work being performed by Japanese technicians in Townsville because it was felt that the same work could be done equally well by local tradesmen. I ask: Is it a fact that Japanese workers are engaged in the construction of television stations and repeater stations in which a fair amount of highly specialised Japanese electronic equipment is used? If so, will the Minister state how many Japanese workers are employed, their classifications, rates of pay and other relevant details of the terms and conditions of their engagement and the circumstances under which they were admitted to Australia. 
I desire to address my remarks to the very important and serious subject of tariffs. It has become of great importance in more recent times because of certain developments in the approach of the Tariff Board and statements that have been made by responsible members of industry and others. Of course the Australian Labor Party takes great credit for the establishment of the tariff policy of this nation. Had it not been for the Scullin Government and its tariff policies, many great industries which have proved of such great value to Australia's development would never have been able to continue or to have been established. Consequently, members of the Labor Party continue to support with justifiable pride tariff policies that will protect Australian industries. Before expressing a few views of my own, I should like to reiterate a statement made by our spokesman on tariffs and trade. On 28th April, 1971, in this Parliament, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said: 
An Australian Labor Party government will be concerned to ensure that Australian resources are economically and efficiently used and that no excess prices are charged or unfair profits or other returns are made. An Australian Labor Party government will not permit an Australian industry to exploit protection to make excess profits by charging high prices. But equally an Australian Labor Party government will not permit under any circumstances an Australian industry which is operating economically and efficiently, and which is not charging high prices and making excessive profits, to be swept aside merely because some overseas competitor for a time may be able or willing to land goods at a lower price. With an Australian Labor Party government in office the Australian people can be assured that all those who work economically and efficiently will be protected, but no-one will be allowed to make excessive profits. 
In view of more recent statements on tariffs and following on with that policy, I quote now from the 29th policy of the Commonwealth Conference of the Australian Labor Party in Launceston in 1971 which set the economic planning objectives of the Labor Party. Objective number 12 reads: 
Protect Australian industries, where necessary, by tariffs, import controls, and/ or subsidies in order to safeguard Australian living standards and to develop Australian resources. The use and level of, and choice between, means of protection to be determined after examination and report by an independent, fully equipped, government authority which will consider, among other things, efficiency, growth prospects, trade practices and pricing policies. 
There is no doubt that the Labor Party believes in the protection of Australian industries. Yet, in more recent times, there have been people in the community - some of them to my mind, closely associated with the Tariff Board - who are getting dangerously close to being free traders. Such a policy will destroy completely the stability of the economy and the jobs of countless thousands of Australians. That is why today we, in this Parliament, must always maintain the right to review Tariff Board decisions. They should never be accepted without challenge and we should always reserve the right to determine whether we accept them. Once we relinquish that right, no-one knows what will happen to Australian industries. 
The impudence of some people in regard to Australian industry amazes me. In the Australian1 of 28th April 1971 was a heading: Tariffs too high, says Japanese trade head'. Who the hell is the Japanese trade head to tell the people of this country whether they should protect their industries? I once heard the former  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the Australian Country Party make a speech in this Parliament on tariffs which I thought could very well have been made by a member from this side of the House. He said: Try to get an Australian car into Japan and see how you go. Not one car could be taken there'. Yet, these people are telling us that our protection is too high. The Japs can look after themselves in trade and let us tell them that we will look after our own interests. The Japanese trade head said: 
Australia's tariffs were 'rather excessively protectionist' and were affecting Japan's long-term trade plans.  . . 
I will cry all night about that. Those remarks were made by the Japanese Minister for International Trade and Industry. I cannot pronounce his name but that is his title. He continued: 
Forty, per cent tariff coverage was 'all too high' for a country of Australia's potential. 
This tariff coverage stops the Japanese from taking away Australian jobs and Australian production and manufacturing in Japan goods that we should produce here. That is why we should not take notice of these people. Our tariff policy should be designed for Australian workers. Some honourable members no doubt will remember that prior to the last war there was plenty of work in some countries but there was none in Australia because our secondary industries had not developed. I lived in a time when everything which was imported was cheap. There were plenty of cheap motor cars and all the other products that one could want, but men were unemployed and nobody had the money to buy them. That is the situation which will develop if our tariff policy is not maintained at an effective level. I think that the former Deputy Prime Minister and Leader of the Country Party did much to maintain tariff protection and I hope his successor will do the same irrespective of those who cry wolf from time to time. 
What does the tariff policy mean to Australian people? Our workers want jobs, long service leave, reasonable wages and security and the right to full employment and be employed in their own environment, but if they want those things, we must be prepared to pay for them. If it means protecting the industries at the expense of overseas interests, I think they are entitled to be protected. I do not profess to know much about the economics of tariffs but if tariffs mean keeping in employment an Australian at the expense of a Japanese, a Britisher or anybody else, I am 100 per cent for such a policy. That is the policy our people want. I instance what is happening in my district today. At a time when tariffs are under challenge in this country, representatives of a big industry in my district approached me recently and said that because of imports of woollen manufactured goods and other goods they had sacked 92 people whose period of service went back as far as 1935 and 1932. They put these people off because they could not possibly maintain production and employment in the face of these imports. This was verified by none other than  Mr S.  D. Kelly, the  President  of the Wool Textile Manufacturers of Australia when he said: 
Employment and orders have both fallen off seriously in most factories in the last year. 
He went on to say: 
Yet, paradoxically, it has never been a more efficient producer than it is today as a result of massive investments in new machinery and processes. . . . 

 Mr Kelly is reported also to have said:   the woollen manufacturing industry, which employed 18,000 people, was suffering primarily from imports of products similar to, or which could be substituted for, those made in Australia. . . . Overseas fibre, yarn and fabric producers must have a quiet laugh at the way in which this country's textile industry makes a market here for the overseas products and then  is  quietly strangled. . . . This country is soon going to have to decide whether  it  wants a textile industry or  not. 
There is a lot more to that statement but other Opposition speakers have mentioned the threat to the motor industry and other industries where men will be paid off unless those industries are protected and unless the Government adopts a firm line. It is shocking to have the disintegrated collection of members opposite running this country and refusing to take action when all Australian industry is threatened. They do not have one policy for more than an hour at a time. They change Ministers and policies day and night and yet Australian industries are clamouring for a clear lead. Even  Sir James  Vernon, when moving a vote of thanks to the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  - Lord knows what for - said: 
I emphasise the words 'some aspects'. AIDA has accepted most readily the Tariff Board's proposed systematic review of the tariff, starting with those products having the highest effective tariff rates, which have not been reviewed for a long time. Our greatest concern has been with the guidelines proposed by the Tariff Board. The  guidlines  and some other elements imply to us a certain rigidity of approach; an attempt to 'fine tune' tariffs that could prove quite disastrous if carried through in today's fast changing circumstances. 
I urge the Leader of the Country Party to see that we have a policy of protection for Australian industry and to put the interests of this country first in its implementation. Let us forget the Japanese and people from other countries who seek to employ their workers in industry and to put ours out of work. From an Australian Labor Party view and from an Australian view I am 100 per cent in favour of the protection of Australian industry and I demand that the Government do something about it. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many non-Europeans have been admitted to Australia in each year since the change of policy announced in March 1966? 
What: 
is the country of origin; and 
are the qualifications of those admitted? 
How many relatives were admitted? 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the procedure for citizens of the United States of America to obtain visitors' visas to enter Australia. 
ls any inquiry made or evidence required that the applicants have made arrangements or propose to depart in accordance with the terms of the visa. 
If so, what assurances were received and what inquiries were made regarding the application lodged by  Mr James  Edward O'Leary and his family for a 2-day visitors' visa. 
What action has been taken to prevent a repetition of this case. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What was the full cost to the Commonwealth for the deportation of  Mr James  Edward O'Leary and his family. 
Has it yet been ascertained whether the State of Hawaii paid the family's fares to Australia knowing they were not en route to Guam as stated. 
Will the State of Hawaii or the Government of the United States of America be requested to reimburse the cost of the deportation of this family; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the proposed intake of migrants from Great Britain for the year ending 30th June 1972. 
Is it anticipated that this figure will be reached and does the rate of application at this date indicate an increase or decrease as compared with the previous year. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many electors were enrolled in each electoral division in Tasmania in each of the years 1902. 1910, 1920, 1930, 1940. 1950. I960 and 1970. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Crimes Act provides that naturalised Australian citizens are liable to deportation despite long-term residence. 
If so, is there any reason why this provision should not be withdrawn if it discriminates against those citizens not born in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is a record kept of the number of migrants who settle in the various States of Australia. 
If so, how many migrants have settled in each State since the commencement of the immigration programme. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many migrants from nonEnglish speaking countries have arrived in Australia in the last 12 months. 
What is the (a) country of origin and (b) percentage of these migrants who would have a working knowledge of the English language. 
How many were (a) adults and (b) children. 
asked the Minister for Immigra tion, upon notice: 
What are the locations of premises occupied by his Department in the Australian Capita] Territory. 
What sections of the Department function at each of these locations. 
The hilarity which I hear from the opposite side of the chamber prompts me to say,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that never before have I known a speech of mine to be so eagerly looked forward to. 
By both sides. I am only sorry that this is not a paying audience. The proposed expenditure for the Department of Immigration is $66,286,000. I move: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by $10. 
I do so as an instruction to the Government that a joint select committee should be appointed to inquire into and report upon all aspects of the migration programme. On 14th July 1945 the Honourable Arthur Calwell was appointed Australia's first Minister for Immigration, heralding one of the most immense mass movements of population of our time. Successive governments and Ministers for Immigration supported by dedicated, understanding, tolerant department officials at home and abroad, with the co-operation of churches, trade unions, employers and voluntary organisations have contributed unselfishly to its success. It is also a tribute to the first Minister for Immigration that the basic principles of the programme have been little changed since its inception. Now, in the twenty-sixth year of its operation the Opposition believes that it is not unreasonable to seek a review to plan for the future in the light of experience, changing times, circumstances and economic conditions. 
Since its commencement 3,490,820 people have arrived in Australia on a permanent and long term basis, of whom 2,696,000 were migrants. Between 1945 and 1970 assisted passages numbered 1,717,771. Persons born overseas numbered more than 21/2 million or 20 per cent of our population. Three quarters of a million children have been born in Australia of migrant parents. Of those migrants here 25 per cent comprise the work force. In the same period Australia's population has increased from about 7.5 million to almost 12.75 million. The Australian Labor Party, as the sponsor ofthe scheme, makes it clear that it still supports migration on certain conditions as exemplified by our policy which states: 
The ALP supports an immigration policy administered with sympathy, understanding and tolerance - 
The basis of such policy shall include: 
Australia's national and economic security. 
The capacity to provide employment, housing, education and social services - that is vital under a Liberal Government - 
The welfare and integration, of all its citizens. 
The preservation of our democratic system and balanced development of our nation. 
The avoidance of the difficult social and economic problems which may follow from an influx of peoples having different standards of living, traditions and cultures. 
The avoidance of discrimination on any grounds of race or colour of skin or nationality. 
The scheme commenced at a time when the world was rebuilding after the war ravaged years of 1939-1945. This was a time when Europe had to be rebuilt and our society, for so long disorganised by war, planned for the future and a new world. It commenced at a time of acute shortages of manpower, materials and population in Australia. It started in our postwar formative years and it has continued with unabated success through the 1950s, 1960s and now into the challenging or sizzling 1970s. In this time great changes have taken place in society, population, development and national progress. With the success of the programme have come the problems of education, housing, employment, social welfare and a myriad of other problems. This has prompted the question from industrialists, employers, professors, Parliament and other people in many walks of life: 'Should the scheme be slowed down or terminated? Should we be more selective'? Others believe that it should be reduced until full employment, adequate housing, social services and other facilities are available for the migrants already settled here. Evidently the Government is thinking along similar lines. The present programme which was originally set at 180,000 was reduced to 170,000 in February, subsequently reduced by 30,000 and more recently there has been a cut of 20 per cent in assisted passages. Over the Christmas period 3,000 will be held back because evidently the Government believes that the economy cannot absorb that number. 
Last year the then Minister for Immigration announced the appointment of 3 committees to inquire into the scheme. No doubt the inquiries were on a good basis and were a good idea but the final report of these committees will not be presented for some time and it may bc out of date when it actually reaches the Parliament. The Opposition did not oppose the appointment of the committees but in the Estimates debate of 30th September 1970 on behalf of the Opposition I stated:  . . I  suggest to the Minister that in the interests of immigration and its future this inquiry should have been conducted by an all party parliamentary committee from both Houses of the National Parliament. The type of committee that would be set up that way, widely representative, uncommitted, with first hand knowledge of the scheme, would have been well qualified to bring down a report that would have been invaluable to the Minister and the Government, whatever its political colour; on which the future programme of migration might be based. In the past, committees of this kind have rendered invaluable reports to the Parliament.  1 pointed out that similar committees existed such as the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory and the Joint Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation and others. I now submit the motion to the Government again for consideration. If any programme deserves a committee of this type it is the immigration programme because the scheme itself owes its success to the sympathetic support of members from all parties in the Parliament. We are all interested in its ramifications, its value to Australia and its success. I believe that such a committee would not reflect on those already appointed, but by its very nature it would be approved of by all interested people. Some critics are inclined to blame migrants for all the shortages in housing, services, education and other facilities. Of course such a statement is not unusual but it is most unfair. Migrants have added to these problems certainly but, at the same time, they have in their way contributed to our prosperity and well being with their labour, skills and purchasing power. They have also changed in some ways the habits of our society. 
I ask the Government whether employment in the present economic climate is not a cause of concern with the continued intake of migrants? Today there are 84,000 unemployed. It is estimated that in January 1972 the figure will be 120,000 and probably, by this time next year, it may be about 150,000. How can the Government bring people here with unemployment mounting? In addition there is a shortage of 90,000 homes in Australia today. That is the number registered on State Government housing lists and it is a conservative estimate. Education is a matter of major concern. It is estimated that the present needs of education in Australia require the expenditure of $180m a year. Some people put this figure as high as $ 1,443m over the next 5 years which represents $280m a year. 
Education authorities clamour for financial support yet we continue to bring in thousands of migrants, adding to the congestion and the difficulties of the system. I do not criticise the migrants for coming. But this situation supports an inquiry to decide whether in this atmosphere we should bring migrants in and continue on the present basis. As honourable members know, the situation is that about 80 per cent of the migrants which come from non-English speaking countries desire some form of assistance in relation to education and language. They are obtaining very little from this Government. The expenditure on migrant education is exceedingly small. It is unfair to load on to State Governments the full responsibility for a migrant programme in education, housing and municipal facilities and refuse to make available the money which is so necessary in order that the State Governments may carry on. That is where the scheme has failed and not so much with the migrants. These are just a few of the problems which make some of the people think it is time for a 'migrant holiday' because the continued inflow of migrants is preventing us from overtaking the needs of education, housing, transport and capital works. 
Community resources are affected by the demand created by importation of families and considerable strains are imposed by inflation. Welfare, health services and local government facilities present grave problems to the Australian people. In addition to that must we not go into the question of why 228,000 citizens refuse to become naturalised even though they are eligible? I think they had a good look at the Government and they think that the country is hardly worth while. That is the situation.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I hope that you will give me a few minutes extra tonight because I have had a very difficult week. 
It is a most disappointing speech for the Government, is it not? I would say that the clamour and support of my oration tonight is ringing like a bell throughout the nation. People know what I am saying about the need to have an inquiry to see whether we are correctly treating the migrants who are here and those who are coming. The real question to be investigated is why the Commonwealth in continuing the immigration programme has thrust its responsibilities in housing, education and health services on to the States and has not provided adequate financial resources resulting in shortages and deficit budgets. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I cannot allow an extension of time for the first term of an honourable member's speech. The honourable member may speak again. 
As no other member has risen,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I take my second period now. I would like the House to know that this is a serious speech. 1 thank the House for the few minutes it has allowed me. These are not just economic considerations. Other aspects of the scheme require investigation. One aspect is in relation to migrants who have what is termed a working holiday; that is those who return after the 2-year period has expired. This practice has resulted in the number returning increasing from 18,000 a year to nearly 30,000 last year. In fact, it indicates that one in four English migrants who arrived in the past year returned to Great Britain. Almost 700 permanent migrants a week left Australia to return to Great Britain in July. Tonight we ask the Government in all sincerity and impartiality: Should we consider increasing the fare to $100? Should the period of residence be increased or should better methods of selection be applied? Only an inquiry in which we might all combine will provide these answers. The ramifications of the immigration programme are enormous, and were exemplified in the Minister's speech recently when he said: 
This year 1969-70 our immigration programme calls for the arrival of 175,000 settlers. To obtain these people Australian migration officers serving in 25 countries will have handled around 1 million inquiries in 20 languages and interviewed more than 300,000 people. 
This indicates that all aspects of the programme should be investigated. I would suggest that a committee of members of this House should visit migrant countries and study at first hand - and if nothing else this should appeal to the Government - the selection methods, facilities, types of migrant and allied matters relating to the programme. This has never been done except by, say, the Minister and after 26 years it does not seem unreasonable to suggest it. If the Government had a committee inquire overseas into the building of a new Parliament House what would be wrong with sending one overseas to study a nation's programme in order to see what is happening in this field. 
I conclude by saying in the brief time at my disposal that they are the reasons which I put forward in support of the appointment of a joint committee of this House. The Opposition submits this proposal, not for the purpose of opposing migration but as a genuine endeavour to make a penetrating analysis of the programme. In my limited time I cannot deal in detail with all the ramifications. However, such a committee as that suggested might well make recommendations on establishments overseas, assisted passages, integration, selection of migrants, unassisted migration, accommodation centres, hostels and housing, publicity and eligibility for social services, to mention a few. It could only do good for the Department, the migrants and Australia. 
The Opposition indicates clearly to the Australian people and to our new citizens that its only reason in advancing the proposal for the joint committee is to ascertain at parliamentary level from the experiences of the past whether any desirable changes could be made in the interests of those who are settled here, and those who may come, and how economically and socially to do the best for Australia and its people. It is considered to be a worthwhile and constructive approach to a scheme in which we all take such pride. Each of us in our own way realises the contributions that our migrants have made to Australia. To them we owe a debt of gratitude for their contributions and the building of our nation. Let us learn from the past, plan for the future and by this inquiry seek new frontiers for Australia and its people. 
It is not like me to keep the House at this late hour of the night but a most remarkable document has reached me and for it to reach me today under the present Government shows that it must be an extraordinary document and worth reading to the House. It is entitled 'Biographical Notes (Issued by the Office of the Press Secretary)' and is spread over 3 pages. It is rather extensive. It is headed 'The Prime Minister of Australia, the Rt Hon. William McMahon, M.P.' The first paragraph says: 
William McMahon became Prime Minister of Australia on 10th March 197 1, after he had been elected Leader of the Parliamentary Liberal Party.  1 suppose we could add that he was relucttantly dragged to the throne on that occasion; coming from the shadows, as it were, almost unknown. As 1 read this biography, and I will read it to the House shortly but not at great length, it seems to me to be the sort of public relations exercise which might be produced not for the Prime Minister of Australia but for somebody like the Imam of Oman or the  President  of the- Maldive Islands at the United Nations, if he had turned up to vote. The document continues: 
The elevation to the Prime Ministership was a notable achievement for William McMahonsoldier, barrister, economist and Parliamentarian. 
It says he is an economist. I suppose the justification for saying that he is an economist is that he is a Bachelor of Economics. On that basis no doubt any Bachelor of Arts is entitled to describe himself as an artist - some of them are and some are not. It goes on to say: 
During 22 years in the Parliament,  Mr McMahon  has won recognition as a vigorous, forthright man with the determination and the ability to get things done. 
But honourable members will agree that he takes his time over it. This is an intriguing article. The most interesting event that has occurred in this Parliament in many a day is that for the first time since 

 Sir John Mc Ewen retired he appeared here today like a ghost from the past. The minute the Prime Minister disappears, in walks his arch enemy, the man who deprived him of the Prime Ministership in 1968. The young Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is Acting Prime Minister. The old war horse of the Country Party has come back today - on cue, mind you - the minute the Leader of the Liberal Party has turned his back. How the ghosts of the Liberal Party walk! This remarkable article goes on to say: 
He has brought to the Prime Ministership a comprehensive background of Parliamentary and Ministerial experience in both the domestic and external fields. 
If these qualifications exist he is keeping them remarkably well hidden. It continues: 

 Mr McMahon first entered the Australian Parliament when he was elected to the House of Representatives for the New South Wales seat of Lowe in 1949. 
He would have to get in for a start, would he not? It continues: 
He was re-elected in 1951, 1954, 1955, 1958. 1961, 1963, 1966 and 1969. 
One can imagine how the Press corps of Washington and London will be agog at this news that the Prime Minister of Australia actually won re-election when  Sir Robert  Menzies decided to hold an election. What a triumph it is for the Prime Minister to hold his seat over all these elections. I can see it headlined in the New York 'Times', the Washington 'Post', the London 'Times', and the Manchester 'Guardian' that the Prime Minister of Australia has actually been re-elected. It is really historic. This continues right through this lengthy document - 3 pages of it - which time does not permit me to read. The Prime Minister has been everything. I notice he is an economist and I understand that he was a top man in that field; that is one of his qualifications. But my information is that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  was top of the class that year so, working in reverse, the honourable member for St George should have the job that the Prime Minister has at the present time. The article mentions the delegations the Prime Minister led which include those to the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East Conference at Bangkok, the Asian and Pacific Council Conference, the Conference of Foreign Ministers, the 
South East Asia Treaty Organisation Conference - according to this article about the only thing of which he is not. patron is the Girl Guides. Association. Then we go further down the list and we- .notice that another remarkable thing was, that he was born. You know, this document really gets to the bottom, of things. It states that  Mr William  McMahon was born in. Sydney. He would have to start somewhere and Sydney is as good a place as anywhere  1  suppose. I will not give his age because I, too, am a bit sensitive about my age. The publication then states that the Prime Minister took his law degree-r-he has taken a lot since. It also states that he practised as a solicitor wilh Allen, Allen and Hemsley, one of the oldest law firms. The only thing one can say about that is that he has been more successful than the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  - if not. at law, elsewhere. 
I can remember one thing that has been left out of this document. The Prime Minister on one occasion was the Minister for Primary Industry. It was said in the Parliament at the time that it was remarkable that the Australian Country Party evidently did not have a farmer in its ranks otherwise why would its members have agreed to the appointment of the Minister for Primary Industry from the seat of Lowe in Sydney. My information was that he had a plastic hose, a canary and a geranium and they made him Minister for Primary Industry. Now they can talk about the Country Party not liking him, but that is what they had him wrung out for. Although the Country Party was made up of all of those great farmers, they could not beat that old Kings Cross farmer at that time. As I run down through the list of what the Prime Minister has done I reckon that the only thing he has not done is win the Melbourne Cup because nearly everything is on this list. The Prime Minister has been to America; he has been to Sydney. He did a course in economics for 2 years. We are told that he is a man in a hurry. The document points out that he did a 4 year course in 2 years. I heard it said in this Parliament once that to make it a bit more difficult he sat for his examinations twice. 
What a remarkable document this is. How the United Nations will sit up and take notice. How delighted Nixon will be when the messenger puts that document in front of him and says: 'Sit up straight brother, he will be here shortly and stand up when he enters'. Can honourable members imagine this? I do not think that a lawyer could have written this document. No, a lawyer could not have written it because it would have cost too much. I am happy to say that the last part of the document has a very happy ending - he married. We all know that he married a very nice lady and that he has a daughter and a son. Is that not a lovely ending to a lovely letter? The document starts by stating that he was born, goes on to state that he had a great record and concludes by stating that he is married. So now honourable members know the history of the Prime Minister of Australia. 
I wonder whether this type of document will be formulated for everybody who goes overseas. I wonder whether every Prime Minister will take with him a document such as this. It is no wonder that the Prime Minister has gone for  3  weeks. It would take the people who he is visiting a week to read all about him when he gets to his various destinations. It is just as well the document was sent to America in advance because Nixon would need a couple of days to read it.  Mr Acting Speaker,  I hate to delay the House at this time, but it is nice to know about the product compiled by the Prime Minister's Press Secre tary and the office of the Prime Minister. Now I know why the Prime Minister's Press Secretary gets more money than a member of Parliament It is for the simple reason that one would have to take a lot of time and use a lot of energy to formulate such a document. However, it is nice to know about the man who leads the nation. 
I believe that this document is one that should be put on the record. It is a remarkable document. As I have said, it states that the Prime Minister was born, married and is happy ever after. It states that he is qualified in economics; a man in a hurry. I would imagine that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is in the chamber at the moment, is somewhat envious of this record. It is the kind of thing that the Minister would write and enjoy. Knowing his close association with the Prime Minister I think that he had a little to do with this document. Nevertheless I give that message to the House and I thank honourable members for their courtesy in listening to me. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the  question  be  now put 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.49 a.m. (Friday) 

 - Mr Speaker, on behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I bring up the Committee's report on item No. 1 of the 48th series of proposed variations to the plan of the lay-out of the City of Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory as gazetted in 1925 - Diversion of Pialligo Avenue. I ask for leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Anybody who was confused in any way prior to the speech of the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  now must be completely and utterly confused as to just what is behind the matter we are discussing. It is not difficult to see, for instance, the utter confusion which has been created by the Government for itself on this occasion. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in Washington and the Acting Prime Minister in Canberra have made conflicting statements within 24 hours. In fact, the Acting Prime Minister made another one today. Yesterday the Acting Prime Minister said: 
The main point that the Prime Minister will need to make in. discussions with American authorities is whether Australia agrees to have discus sions with the governments ot the United States, Cambodia, Vietnam and New Zealand on the possibility of training Cambodians in Vietnam. 
I emphasise the words 'whether Australia agrees to have discussions'. A few hours ago in Washington the Prime Minister said that the United States, New Zealand and Australia have already agreed in principle to set up a training programme for Cambodian forces. What has happened to the discussions the Acting Prime Minister claimed yesterday were a necessary preliminary to an agreement being reached? The Prime Minister said further that he did not know whether the Cambodians had asked for this type of assistance. That is totally different from what the Acting Prime Minister said today. Of course, the Acting Prime Minister said yesterday that the Cambodians would be included in any discussions about the matter. 
We heard from the Acting Prime Minister today what I think was the understatement of the century. He said that there was a slight breakdown in communications. Here we have the Prime Minister - thi leader of this great nation, the man about whom a 3-page document was issued the other day telling of his administrative capacity and efficiency - on the very door step of the White House, with the  President  of the United States waiting to receive him and his own Cabinet has had a document for 30 days but nobody has bothered to tell him about it  Mr Nixon  will be delighted to know, will he not, that the man' who seeks to tell him what this Government will do in the Pacific with the assistance of its great ally did not even know what was happening in his own Cabinet. 
The Acting Prime Minister said that it was a low key job. There is no doubt about it being 'low key'. From what I can see it did not even get into the door. Irrespective of whether the situation is low key, as the 'Age' reported today,  Mr McMahon  has taken it seriously and urgently enough to ask the Federal Cabinet to meet, discuss the request and make a decision on it before his meeting with the  President.  What is low key about that? What a humiliating situation for this great leader of men who leads the nation and who has colleagues in the Cabinet who like him so much to know that the Minister directly responsible for this matter had not brought it to his attention. The Acting Prime Minister spoke a few moments ago of the Cambodians request as a relatively minor matter. A relatively minor matter cost 500 men their lives in Vietnam and it inflicted upon 3,000 men wounds from which they may never fully recover. The conflict in Vietnam came out of a relatively minor commitment of 30 men. The statement today by the Acting Prime Minister indicates that the commitment into which this Government has entered may throw this nation into a conflict similar to the one in Vietnam about which the Australian people feel very seriously and for which they condemn this Government. 
Let us have a look at how this matter has been handled and why the Opposition seeks the removal of the Minister for Defence. The Minister today reiterated the statement as it was given to the Government. He said that a request was received on 30th September from the United States Embassy. The Government operates in a funny way. There was no exchange of documents. It was just an oral request. A letter written in French which nobody could understand started our commitment to the war in Vietnam. The Minister for Defence said that the request was then forwarded to the Defence Committee on 1st October. But there happened to be a long weekend and, as this Government does not work much anyhow at any time, nobody dealt with it until after the 8-hour day holiday. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said, it would be a great thing if we were mobilising men for war and the Liberal-Country Party Government would not work between Saturday and Tuesday if a holiday intervened! 
The Minister for Defence then said that the proposal went through the departments of Foreign Affairs and the Army and the Chiefs of Staff and that on 25th October it was sent to him by his Department. The Minister admitted quite frankly that he saw it on 26th October and that he then sent it to the Prime Minister marked 'important'. Was it not good of him to note on the papers the word 'important'? Mind you, that was about 3 weeks later. In fact, it was 26 days after a request had been made to commit Australian servicemen there. The Minister for Defence then went on to say that it was unfortunate that the request did not reach the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is only the man running the country. Is it not extraordinary that a request for the commitment of Australian forces was not brought to his attention? The Minister for Defence said that he did not hide the fact that a bit of a slip up occurred. It was a very important slip up, as no doubt the Prime Minister realised when, from the other side of the world, he called his Cabinet together on this issue. 
The Minister for Defence said that it was not a novel request. There is no doubt that it was not a novel request; it was a request for the involvement of men in a conflict which could well start, as I said earlier, another Vietnam. This is a prime example of muddling at every level. Irrespective of whether the Minister for Defence is personally responsible, it is his duty to take the responsibility for the actions of his departmental officers in not bringing this matter to the attention of the Prime Minister. What kind of Government do we have which tolerates the handling of important events in this manner? How can we tolerate a Minister who will allow this state of affairs to continue? It is true, as honourable members know, that since the beginning of the year we have had 3 Ministers for Defence. Two of them have been sacked. And another one ought to be sacked - everybody in the Parliament knows that. That is why the Opposition has moved this motion. 
Proof of the prime muddling of this Government in respect to defence is the fact that the Prime Minister did not know what was happening in regard to a request for the commitment of men to a war. All the glib talk of the Acting Prime Minister will not help the matter, either. He is in an unfortunate position. He is a young man whom I admire. He is the youngest man to occupy the post since Stanley Melbourne Bruce. But he has brought into a problem that he cannot handle. Nobody can sort out these Liberals. It is beyond the Acting Prime Minister or anybody else to sort them out. The Acting Prime Minister is now in a field of hatchets and knives that the Country Party, even in the wildest days of the Kelly gang, has never experienced. The Acting Prime Minister is out of his depth on this issue because he knows not what the Liberals are doing not just from day to day or hour to hour but minute to minute. 
I would like to hear the views of, for instance, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  on this issue. Could he not tell us a lot? He knew nothing about this matter until it was mentioned yesterday, but he was not offended because even the Prime Minister was not told about it. So he could not be annoyed about what has happened. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  would be an interesting personality to hear on this issue. Let us hear from the right honourable member for Higgins about what he thinks of the present Minister for Defence. If he is fair dinkum today he should not vote with the Government on this issue. In his memoirs he said that the Minister for Defence could not in anyone's imagination be thought to pose a competitive threat. He said: 'He was well liked, painstaking' - there is no doubt about that; it took him 30 days to tell the Prime Minister - 'and basically honest.' It is good to know that. He covered himself there. The right honourable member went on to say: '. . . but was so pedestrian'. That is a strange word, but we now know that he walks very slowly. He was '. . . conservative'. There is no doubt about that; he kept all the good news to himself. He was slow thinking'. The Minister realised that this was important and he did mark it, but it took him 30 days to do it. We can see that the right honourable member for Higgins summed up the Minister very well. The former Prime Minister said 'it could never have seriously occurred to anyone, outside his domestic circle, to imagine he had the capacity to head a government. Nor was he an ambitious man.' 
The Opposition does not ask the Minister to head the Government. It does not think that he is fitted for that. Quite frankly, honourable members on this side of the House are somewhat conservative: We do not think he is fitted even for the job he has. That is why this motion has been put to the Parliament today. That statement of the right honourable member for Higgins is a condemnation of the Minister from his own side of the Parliament. If any evidence were needed to bear out the substance of that statement it is the matter we are discussing today of the dilatory approach made to the Prime Minister on this great issue. I am in complete agreement with what the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  have said on this matter today. It is all very well to say that there have been slip-ups and a temporary breakdown of communications and that the matter just did not reach the Prime Minister. One would have thought that some of the men who march arm in arm with the Prime Minister, talking to him now and again on all issues and sitting in Cabinet with him, would have mentioned this matter to him. 
The whole thing boils down to incompetence at the highest possible level. That is why the Opposition seeks the dismissal of the Minister for Defence on the ground of his incompetence. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition asked whether we should believe that the modest, conservative Minister was too coy or too shy to tell the Prime Minister about this matter. Are we to believe seriously that that is why he was not told? Are we to believe that the Minister was too bashful to speak to the Prime Minister on this matter? These excuses for not telling the Prime Minister about this matter are stupid. All the glib talk of the Acting Prime Minister and other honourable members on the Government side will not hide the fact that the Prime Minister was kept completely in the dark on this issue which everyone knows is exceedingly vital. 
My time is limited and I do not want to dwell much longer on the incompetence of honourable members opposite. I just want to say that this was not a low key matter. It was not a matter that should have been kept from the Prime Minister of this country. It was not a matter of no importance, with a slip-up and a slight breakdown of communications. The Government's proposals may well usher in another tragedy for this country. Thirty men committed in Vietnam ushered in that great conflict, as I mentioned earlier. That conflict divided nations all over the world. From 1962 onwards it has been a long, hard road for this country to follow, and a grim toll has been taken of the manpower of Australia. Thirty men initially and 8,000 men ultimately have gone into that country. Hundreds of them have been killed and thousands of them have been wounded. Into the bargain, the Government introduced conscription to maintain forces in a foreign country. 
Has the Government not learnt anything about this matter? America did not even tell us when it was pulling out of Vietnam, and this Government is again committing troops. Has the Government not learnt one thing about this? It is on the edge of another volcano in committing men to Cambodia. This country should defend its own shores. Troops should not leave the country, as the Government wants them to do, to fight in foreign battles. Other nations are entitled to sort out their own affairs just as we are. This commitment that the Minister has entered into may well be the thin end of the wedge in respect to these matters. Let us ponder very seriously on this matter and on the motion that has been moved relating to the competence of the Minister for Defence. No doubt he is a nice man personally, but his competence to administer the affairs of this country as Minister for Defence is in doubt. 
For how long can the Government tolerate a Prime Minister who does not know what is happening at the highest level in the ranks of his Cabinet? For how long can the Government tolerate departmental officials and others who take 26 or 30 days to see that these things reach the head of the department, whoever he might be? All in all this is an unfortunate and unsavoury state of affairs. The Government deserves to be condemned and the Minister particularly deserves to be condemned because of his incompetence in handling this matter. Therefore I suggest that if the Government is to retain its self respect, the Minister should resign before this motion is carried. I know the great tensions that must be building up in the minds of honourable members opposite as to whether they will cross the floor and vote with the Opposition. I can well understand how the honourable member for Moreton, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  and others must be feeling. If they are sincere and vote as only Liberal members can vote, so we are told - as their conscience dictates; they are not tied to the Party line - there is no other course for them to adopt but to cross the floor and vote against the Minister. 
After all is said and done, surely the right honourable member for Higgins does not love the honourable gentleman. We all know what he said about the Minister and why he is sitting on the back benches today. Honourable members who sit there must know that there must have been incompetence not only on this issue but also in other directions. I suggest to the Liberal members who believe in good government in this country and who believe in their Party's approach to these things that they can vote as they like, that today is the opportunity for them to exercise that prerogative and to support the motion which is in the interests of this country. 
The Prime Minister ought to get back to this country pretty quickly because, if he is here and does not know what is going on, Lord knows what will happen when he is away. If they will not tell him when they can see him, what will they do when they cannot see or hear him and he cannot get here? This is a serious matter which may well be committing the Government and this country to another Vietnam conflict. Regrettably I have to say that I believe the motion censuring the Minister for Defence is merited because he has failed to administer his Department competently on an issue that is vital to this country. 
I think nothing is more stupid in parliamentary procedure than to debate at this hour of the night the expenditure of large sums of money. Any government that insists on debates of this kind at this hour of the night deserves to be condemned by the Australian people. It is a fantasy and it is farcical. 1 can see no reason why, with roughly a couple of months of the year to go, we should debate at this hour of the night expenditure on the national capital which is of most vital importance to the Australian people. Tonight I register my protest at having to debate in this Parliament at a time when most members are not in a state to absorb the. wisdom that I will give forth matters relating to the national capital. 
Why should the Government not debate these matters in the ordinary hours of the day? What reason is there for us to sit at this hour of the night to debate these estimates? What is wrong with sitting and debating these matters in hours when people can understand and know what they are ail about. What is the rush to push through the estimates for expenditure on the Australian Capital Territory? Has the Government something to bc afraid of? Does it fear a repetition of the kinds of errors that are affecting the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the field of international affairs in relation to Cambodia and other places? Why should we make jokes of Parliament, ourselves and the people by being here at this hour of the night to debate these estimates? I do not intend to spend a lot of time on them tonight because, speaking quite honestly and frankly, I do not think very many honourable members listening to me are very interested. I am certain that no members of the public are interested and I am very certain that whatever I say will not be reported throughout the length and breadth of this country. 
Therefore tonight let me express my condemnation of what again exemplifies the cussedness of the Government and its contempt for the public generally and particularly for the people of Canberra when it brings on for debate after midnight matters affecting the national capital of Australia, a great capital and one of vital interest at least to the 140,000 or so people who live here. I ask at this stage also whether the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  is still in the precincts of the Parliament. I do not notice him around. This matter is important. I have to stay up and honourable members on this side of the Parliament still have to be here. I hope that the Minister will come from his reverie, wherever he may be, and participate in this debate because I have a few things to say to him in respect of matters of interest to us. 
I want to speak on a matter that now seems to have become my sole domain on this side of the Parliament and that is the question of electoral matters. On 1st April 1971 I introduced into this Parliament a measure dealing with electoral reform. On that date I introduced the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1971 (No. 2), and stated, amongst other things, that we would introduce first past the post voting and a number of other major electoral reforms. The Government has not seen fit since that date to bring that Bill before this Parliament for discussion. I will tell the Parliament why. The Government - particularly the Country Party - is in great trouble in respect of electoral reform. For instance, in Queensland there is the question of whether the Country Party is gerrymandering the electorate in that State so it will be returned irrespective of the will of the electorate. 
I would like the Minister, who has now come into the chamber, to know why the Government has not brought forward order of the day No. 7 under General Business on the notice paper, which I introduced on 1st April. It is a most important Bill and one that should be discussed. 
Looking further down the list of orders of the day under Government Business I direct attention to items- 29, 30 and 31 which deal respectively with the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1971, the Senate Elections Bill 1971 and the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Bill 1971. The debate on each of these Bills has been adjourned. They have not been brought forward for debate. The Government has given no indication as to when they may be brought before the Parliament for debate. Incorporated in these measures are a number of what the Minister for the Interior said were vital reforms in the field of electoral matters. 
We on this side of the Parliament are particularly interested in the remarks of the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who said when he was Prime Minister that 18-year-olds would have the right to vote at the next Federal election. We wonder whether this proposal is to be put aside because of the dissension which is evident in the ranks of the Government with respect to electoral reform generally. I would like the Minister for the Interior to say why wc have not debated these matters. When all is said and done, an election for the House of Representatives will be held some time next year. In some Australian States 18-year-olds are entitled to vote now. The amazing situation exists that people in electorates in some States who have the right to vote in State elections are denied that right with respect to Commonwealth elections. 
That may not be the only question involved. Possibly the Government desires to postpone the consideration of these measures until the complications in Queensland are sorted out. I realise that the Bjelke-Petersen Government in Queensland desires to have electoral reform. It cannot win unless there is a gerrymander. So, why should it not bc interested in electoral reform? I can understand my friend at the table, who is a member of the Country Party, being a little sympathetic to the Queensland Government. There is no reason to postpone the consideration cf great issues in the national Parliament. There is no reason why we should not debate the issues here. I can say quite honestly that my speech has been prepared for some months. Unless the Minister brings these matters forward for debate, that speech may well be stillborn. It is a really good speech; I can tell you that. I know that: I prepared it. I ask the Minister why he does not bring on for debate orders of the day 29, 30 and 31. Why not proceed to debate the measure that  1  introduced on 1st April 1970? Let us proceed to discuss the question of electoral reform in this country because all of the matters related to it are vital to the Australian people. I mention this matter quickly as my time is limited. I have not much time to deal with the full ramifications of these matters. 
To summarise this aspect of the matter I point out that the Australian Labor Party looks at the question of electoral reform as a matter of great urgency. We desire to have these matters discussed because how a government is elected is vital to the Australian people, lt is important that our electoral system should be the best that it is possible to achieve. This is the aim of the legislation that we have brought forward. Probably the Minister wishes to continue to postpone debate on these matters because the Country Party wishes to gain some electoral advantage in Queensland or in other States. This is something that I do not think should stand in the way  of  the discussion  of  these matters in the Parliament. 
Having said so much on that subject, let me say something more or less in sympathy with the Minister. I do not like to get offside with a Minister any more than any other member does. Earlier in the year some statements were made in this Parliament in regard to the Minister's seeking to obtain a house in the Australian Capital Territory. I am one who believes that something in the nature of a lodge should bc provided for the Minister for the Interior in the Australian Capital Territory. When all is said and done, the Minister for the Interior has not only his responsibilities as Minister but also the responsibilities of a lord mayor in this city. Any government worth ils salt should build for its Minister for the Interior a house, not lavish or extravagant in any way but suitable for a person who has to carry out the responsibilities entailed in administering the Interior portfolio. I am one who believes that this should be done. I urge the Minister to see that it is done. 
Earlier in the year the Minister was to purchase a home here. Some people took exception to this proposal because of certain matters associated with it. Let me say quite sincerely without any reflection on anybody that it was unfortunate that they picked on the Minister for the Interior because other Ministers had done similar things and escaped any criticism whatsoever. In view of the prevailing circumstances those Ministers were entitled to do what they did as was the present Minister. I personally cast no reflection on him for having taken advantage of something that was available to other Ministers. Certain consideration has been given wilh respect to houses even to members on this side of the Parliament. This happened in relation to members holding high positions on this side of the Parliament. Nobody took exception to it. 
I congratulate the Minister on what I consider to be his high standard of personal integrity in subsequently abandoning his intention to take possession of the cottage which was to be made available to him in the same way as similar accommodation had been made available to other members on that side of the Parliament occupying high positions and to some members on this side of the Parliament, in a similar way but not in relation to purchase. T urge him to make arrangements to provide suitable accommodation for the Minister for the Interior so that he may escape the criticism - ill advised, in many cases - which was offered in this instance. I hope that will be done. I think that this is important because the Minister for the Interior is, after all, the lord mayor, the Minister, and all that goes to represent Canberra and he should be able to have suitable accommodation which is in keeping with that position. I make that comment and regret that it is not possible at this late hour for me to discuss at much greater length matters of importance to the Australian Capital Territory which the Government does not think are worthy of discussion except at this hour of the night. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many persons are registered as unemployed at 
Leichhardt and 
Newtown employment offices. 
Of those registered how many are 
males and 
females and how many are 
adults and 
minors in each case. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is a record kept of the numbers of persons with professional qualifications who have migrated to Australia since the commencement of the immigration scheme. 
If so, will he provide the number in each profession who have settled in Australia to this date. 
Is the Minister for Social Services aware that there are almost one million age and invalid pensioners v/hose average fortnightly benefit is $29.33, and that 160,252 of these have no income other than their pensions? If so, whilst realising the need to provide foreign aid to those in need, will the Minister give effect to the old adage that charity begins at home, and make available at least $25m to Australian pensioners before Christmas to relieve their poverty in this age of inflation caused by the Government's failure to honour its unforgettable promise, which still echoes down the ages, to put value back into the pound? 
-] address my remarks to the estimates of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet with particular reference to the Ministers of State, Leaders of the Opposition and parliamentary parties and staffs. We have an amazing situation in the Parliament at the present time. We have what might be termed the visible Cabinet of 27 members. Then we have what is termed the shadowy Cabinet led by the ex-Prime Minister lurking on the back bench with a number of very notable and able members, such as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  in its ranks. Then we have assisting the Cabinet what might be termed the invisible Cabinet. We have had criticism in this Parliament about the Australian Labor Party being controlled by faceless men, but there is now in the Parliament an invisible .Cabinet consisting of the Assistant Ministers. 
 I want to take the minds of honourable members back in respect of this matier just to refresh their memories. On 29th 
April 1971 the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  at present abroad engaged in a variety of occupations, announced that he would be appointing a number of Assistant Ministers. Then the great day arrived on 10th September 1971 when he announced the appointment of the Assistant Ministers. He said that the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  would assist the Prime Minister. There is no doubt about his wanting assistance. He does not even know what is going on and has now branched out into choosing ladies frocks. I do not know whether the young and bachelor member for Cook will assist him in that direction but maybe he will. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  is to assist the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  Nobody can say that that Minister is not in a lot of trouble. Then we have  Senator Marriott  assisting the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson). His  appointment coincided with a typhoid epidemic outbreak on a Qantas aircraft. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  is assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation and even if you are charitable to the Minister for Civil Aviation you will say he is just a plugger in the job. Then we come to the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  He is assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who I think at .this stage is lost in the scrub so he has plenty of scope. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  in assisting the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme). 
What we want to know is: What are the functions of these Assistant Ministers? They appear to be invisible too. Where are these Assistant Ministers located? I have made a few checks and these have revealed an amazing situation. Of those I could find, I found, for instance, that the honourable member for Boothby shares a room with the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  and the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  So if you want to have a chat with him there are a couple of eavesdroppers close by. There are no secret telephones, just a couple of eavesdroppers. The honourable member for Wimmera, if you can find him, is in a room with the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  so the honourable member for the 
Northern Territory has to know what is going on. The honourable member for Corangamite shares a room with that cheerful character the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  So if you find the honourable member for Corangamite you have to put up with the jokes and the laughter of the honourable member for Bradfield. What a situation. The staff appears to be invisible too. Nobody sees them. They cannot be sitting on the Assistant Ministers' knees or their laps in the rooms. I do not know what happens in this Parliament these days but you can hardly nurse the typists in the rooms if that is where they are situated. The expenses appear to be invisible too. 
What have the Assistant Ministers done to date? This is an invisible situation too. What standing have they in the Parliament? That seems an invisible situation. Finally, why were they ever appointed? We know the Ministers wanted assistance but how are the Assistant Ministers helping them? What is the good of seeing them anyway when one does need assistance? The situation is that nobody knows what they are doing. They have no special seating arrangements in this Parliament. They have no standing. They have no place to occupy. Nobody knows what are their activities. They are in every way members of an invisible ministry. I suppose one could describe the Assistant Ministers as ghost like figures disappearing into the corridors of power from time to time. They are invisible men with invisible tasks and achieve invisible results. Their activities are shrouded in mystery. I suppose the only time they appear in human form is when the Prime Minister wants them to support him in the Party room. That is the general nature of the expenditure we are told is necessary to be incurred on the people occupying these ministerial posts. 
Is it not time the Parliament was told precisely what their activities are, what they do, what they are being paid, what they are here for, where they are located and where they can be seen? I do not know of any task which has been given to them that could not have been done by a second rate clerk of any capacity in this country. Honourable members opposite can never deny that statement for the simple reason that nobody knows precisely what they are doing and where they are going. But at least their appointment was historic.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  even though you have had wide experience in the Country Party, did you ever think that you would be around here at a time when there were invisible Ministers? Is it not amazing that nobody has mentioned them since they have been appointed?  Mr Deputy Chairman,  would you allow me to ask a question of any of them if I were silly enough to think of doing so? You know as well as I do that nobody would ask them a question,  Sir. It  is hard enough to get answers to questions out of the Ministry we can see. Therefore, why would one bother asking questions of invisible men? The situation is that the administration of the Government is top heavy. We have a Portuguese army almost in that we have all Ministers and no rank and file. 
It is a national scandal to think that we have in this Parliament honourable members about whose activities we know nothing. For all we know they might be drawing unlimited expenses. Let us take, for example, the appointment of the honourable member . for Cook as the Assistant Minister assisting the Prime Minister. Evidently the appointment left him speechless because he has not said anything since his appointment. I do not mind telling honourable members that not only did members of the Opposition get a hell of a shock out of the appointment but it also almost frightened us to death. That is the situation with respect to the Ministry. While I say it with some degree of levity, if it was not so expensive it would be a pretty good joke. But surely the nation and the Parliament are entitled to know what the Assistant Ministers are doing. The Opposition would like a change in the people of whom it asks questions and from whom it tries to get results. Members of the Opposition would like to think that the honourable member for Moreton and others who were deposed from the Ministry suffered some great loss, but when one considers that they are too good for the Ministry and not good enough for Assistant Ministers it makes one wonder whether there is something wrong on the other side of the Parliament. I am wondering whether the Assistant Ministers have been appointed to replace some of the Ministers who are not here. Every time the Acting Prim-; Minister  (Mr Anthony)  stands up at question time he says that the Minister for Repatration  (Mr Holten)  has gone away or the Minister foi Primary Industry has left the country. If I ran the portfolio of Primary Industry like the Minister for Primary Industry I would not come back either. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has just returned from some jaunt abroad. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  representing as he does this little and insignificant country, has just returned from a short jaunt overseas. He never bothered to ask in Vietnam why the Cambodians want the men this Government has promised to them. In addition to that we have the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  who, if he had not been deported, is at least temporarily away from the country. The Government has appointed Assistant Ministers to stand in for the Ministers who are away and to help the Ministers who are here, but in actual fact what are they doing? 
In summary, the manner in which this Government treats the country in respect to the administration of the nation, the length to which it will go and all the factors associated with the appointment of these Assistant Ministers indicate that they were made for political reasons only - that is, to cover up the disunity in the Liberal Party. Public events have indicated that there is more than one split in that Party at the present time. Tonight I indicate to the people at large what has been done in the name of democracy. It is a great country that can carry a Liberal government; it is a great country that can carry an Assistant Ministry on the back bench; but I do not know of any democracy in any nation in the world that at any time in history carried an invisible ministry. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Did the former Prime Minister draw attention in his policy speech in 1970 to migrants in the community who were unaware of the range of benefits, services and assistance available to them and state that he would propose to the States that grants be  made  available through municipal authorities to subsidise the employment of people who could provide information and guidance to those who needed it. 
If so, what action has been taken to implement this promise and when can results be expected. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many electors are enrolled at this date in (a) Australia, (b) each State and (c) each electoral division. 
I wish to second the motion. Like other honourable members on this side of the House I was somewhat concerned at the inability of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to give us their views on this important subject. I know that the Minister for Customs and Excise was really disturbed when he was seated at the table. He even stood up to take the call from the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  The Minister said: 'I desire to express my views on this matter.' It is only fair to let a man bursting with knowledge on this subject express his views in this Parliament. 
This motion from this side of the House comes more in a desire to let Government supporters exercise their freedom and right to vote on an issue about which they say they are concerned. If it is true that Government supporters have views on this matter and they can vote as they wish, what a splendid opportunity they have to exercise that tolerant and democratic process about which the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  spoke when he said that an honourable member was entitled to move such a motion as this. I support the motion to suspend the Standing Orders because I cannot think of a greater insult to such a dedicated defender of wine growers and producers as the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  than being denied the right to express in this Parliament, in a most democratic way, where he stands by voting on the motion he moved. What more democratic approach could there be to this problem? I listened to the honourable member today and for once I felt that he was sincere. He even appealed for a bipartisan policy on wine excise. Government supporters said, in effect, that what we were saying was right. 
Why not give to these gentlemen opposite the opportunity to do for their electors what they say they want to do. When all is said and done it is of no use sham fighting on this issue. The honourable member for Angas said that it was a matter of great concern lo his district and to the great State of South Australia. I almost wept when I heard the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  speak.. He too was moved. Having looked at the Hansard record, which is full of their names as having voted for the excise, I thought that they had repented. Let us have a vote on it. 
I did not intend to offend the honourable member but this is an excellent opportunity for him to let the House know how he will vote on this issue. 
You know,  Mr Speaker,  that 1 always accept your kindly rebukes in the spirit in which they are given, and I accept the one on this occasion also because I know from long experience that in your position you are not a man to be argued with. I want to be brief and finish off on this note: I summarise our position by saying that we are moving for the suspension of Standing Orders in the interest of the Government, which says that it believes sincerely in the matter that has been proposed by the honourable member for Angas. We have no desire to curtail expulsion of opinion by the 2 Ministers who, as 1 mentioned earlier, are evidently bursting with knowledge on this subject. I would not like to see the members of the Country Party denied the opportunity to speak for the primary producers in an effective way by voting in this Parliament. I would like to see them particularly give expression to an intelligent vote for once by voting for Labor policy. If our motion is carried it will present them wi'.h such an opportunity, and that is why it has been moved. 
The motion is to suspend Standing Orders so that we proceed to debate this measure until a vote is taken and we know precisely where all members of the Parliament stand. That is the sole basis of the motion. The case for the suspension of Standing Orders has been ably put from this side of the Parliament and honourable members opposite have said that they support our point of view. Why then is there not general agreement? Let this motion bc carried on the voices. Let us all vote as a united parliament to see that justice is given to those who produce this great and spiritual product, wine. I hope the House will support me in that point of view. I would like to hear now the Minister for Customs and Excise give his view on this important measure. Today in this Parliament he has rivalled the silence of Dean Maitland until it was too late to speak. Let him come out of his shroud, as it were, and give us his views. He will have an opportunity to do so by voting for the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders which has been moved from this side. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many persons eligible for naturalisation are not naturalised at this date. 
How many persons of each nationality are involved. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representative-, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned' citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
 That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United Stales of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I have a few very important things to say, but before doing so I think I should refer to one of the rare speeches made by the honourable member for Malley  (Mr Turnbull).  It is significant to learn that age has not improved him. When he rose to speak he was the. only member of the Australian Country Party in the chamber but, quite frankly, I cannot blame the others. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! If the honourable member for Mallee claims he has been misrepresented he may make a personal explanation at the conclusion of the speech of the honourable member for Grayndler. 
I will give him a little more to go on. I mentioned that a quorum had to be called and that the Country Party members who came in disappeared from the House almost immediately thereafter. I congratulate them on their intelligence. (Quorum formed). I thank the honourable member for Mallee for his generosity in providing me with a first-class audience, although probably it is not one of the quality one would want. The honourable member was critical about Labor members of Parliament and people in city electorates because of their activities and because they choose to live in the cities. The honourable member for Mallee by calling is an auctioneer, and not a very good one, I understand, but he made in the depression years, 1 believe, a small fortune by being the fastest man with the gavel in the west. He is said to have been the fastest man with the hammer and sold as many farms as possible to the city slickers who stood before him. It is on record that on one occasion he sold a horse and buggy for 17s 3d to one city slicker because there was no time for other bidding. And when honourable members like the honourable member for Mallee with that sordid record criticise members of the Labor Party even you  Mr Deputy Speaker,  a member of the same party, in your just way will agree that I am entitled to respond. 
I want to speak on the slate of the nation. There is a lot wrong with the nation at the moment. There is the economy; the rural industries are in ruin, thanks mainly to the Australian CountryParty; inflation has run riot and industrial unrest is rampant. But they are not all of the problems. The worst of the problems is the Government, and everybody in the nation knows it. We even had the Prime Minister saying when he was abroad that the former Prime Minister was a bigger b- nuisance out of Cabinet than he was in it. Today's 'Australian' says that the Prime Minister might know where he is but he does not know where he is going. This is the situation in the nation. Then we find that there are more organisations now in the Government parties than there are probably in the universe at large. Why, they even have stirrers led by the honourable member for Moreton writing special articles - a nice group of them - in the Daily Mirror'. On the front page of that newspaper on 16th November 1971 there is a very distinguished photograph of the honourable member for Moreton talking to a very genial former Prime Minister. 'Killen the Stirrer', the headline says, 'McMahon Needs Yes-Men'. It goes on to say: 
Killen has reservations about McMahon's performance as Prims Minister , . . 
Quite a few of us have, to be frank. The honourable member for Moreton is on the ball. The article then quotes the honourable member as saying: 
The greatest mistake  Mr McMahon  has made is to subscribe to the belief that the true test of loyalty is ready agreement. 
You could say he has surrounded himself with yes-men. 
This is one of the Government supporters saying this, one who is pledged to support the Prime Minister. This is followed up again by the stirrers, a very reputable name no doubt in the ranks of this once great Party. Then we see that there is a demand that the rebels - the stirrers, as they are called - be punished. The honourable member for Moreton had a rather quiet though undistinguished career as Minister for the Navy, but at no stage did he run into whales or get hit by his own guns. Then there is the latest headline: 'Lib. Clash On Killen, Gorton.' My word, the publicity for these two distinguished ex-Ministers is really amazing. As if that were not bad enough, there is a Get Gorton Back Committee. Peter Buff says it is not an impossible dream. He goes on to say in an article in the 'News': 
And McMahon is trading our birthright for  a  mess of military pacts. 
So to start with there are the stirrers, there is the Get Gorton Back Committee and to cap it all that magnificent brain, the former Attorney-General, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  has announced his resignation. He is going back to the courts. I thought we had saved the courts from that. There are a lot of people who will learn at very heavy expense that he was better in the Parliament, and a great deal cheaper. This is the situation today in this once great Party. So when I say that the main thing wrong with the country is its . Government there would have to be fairly general agreement. An article in the 'Daily Telegraph' states: 

 Mr Tom Hughes, QC. said tonight that he would remain loyal to  Mr McMahon  and the Liberal Party during the remainder of his time in Parliament. 
At the expiration of that time there will be some mayhem. I thought as I saw him sitting in this chamber about midnight last night. He is getting better and more loyal as the night goes on. But that will wear off. The article continues: 

 Mr Hughes said that these ex Ministers were depicted as trying to bring down the Government. 
This group would include the honourable member for Moreton and the former Prime Minister. The article reports  Mr Hughes  as saying that nothing is further from their thoughts and he dissociated himself from it. Strange as it may seem, I am sorry in a sad kind of way to see him go from the Parliament because, although I have said a few things about his legal capacity, inside his head is a reasonable amount of intelligence and this is something which has been singularly lacking on the Government side since he left the Ministry. So to that extent there is a certain regret that he is leaving us and it is not possible for use to have him with us longer. 
But who can say the Government is not in ruins? There are a stirrers club and the Get Gorton Back Committee, the honourable member for Berowra is resigning and he had the Prime Minister abroad with a remarkable document depicting him as someone like Mandrake the Magician, that was handed to Nixon and Heath a few weeks ago. And if that is not bad enough, the Country Party reckons it has saved the country. Did honourable members ever hear anything worse? Take the honourable member for Mallee, he could not save himself. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  whom the honourable member for Mallee once described as an office boy who runs the messages, was reported in the 'Gold Coast Bulletin* on 9th November 1 971 - he was up there for what was typically described at that time as a pub crawl to help the local candidate - under the headline 'Survival, thanks to the CP' as follows: 
The Acting Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  has suggested that the Federal Government would not have survived the Gorton-McMahon leadership crises had it not been for the steadying influence of the Country Party . . . 

 Mr Anthony . . . said: . . . 
I do give us a degree of credit in maintaining the Government over the last 12 months, when the Liberal Party has had unfortunate and sad circumstances eventuate. 
We have sat on the sidelines and tried to give wise counsel. 
If we had had the same difficulties in our Party, I am sure we would not have been able to contain our anti-socialist forces'. 
So despite all that has been said, the Liberal Parly is hanging together only because the Country Party is supposed to have saved it. The fact of the matter is that it was a shotgun wedding, and it is now on the rocks. The honeymoon is over, the lovers have parted and the house will be sold next. That is the situation with the Liberal and Country Parties. It is a sordid story of what one could call a marital relationship, pre-marital to some extent at some stages. The shotgun wedding has lasted a long time and now it is over. The Country Party is claiming credit for having saved the Liberal Party, but no matter how bright the Country Party might be nobody could save the Liberal Party; it is beyond redemption and the world knows it. Government members should save their time and take a bit of advice from one who knows. They should look, after themselves, and when they are next thinking of unemployment benefits they should put them up because a lot of them will need them after the next election. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable members' time has expired. 

 Mr TURNBULL (Mallee)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Immigration,  upon  notice: 
How many (a) non-Europeans and (b) persons of mixed descent are permanent residents of Australia at this date? 
How many of them are (a) naturalised and (b) not naturalised in each case? 
asked the Minister for Immi  gration,  upon notice: 
What is the (a) number and (b) percentage of persons of (i) non-European origin and (ii) mixed descent who reside in (A) Australia (B) each State and Territory? 
How many are naturalised in each case? 
The Minister said that it was not moved on behalf of the Government. We all know from the Press reports of the meeting yesterday of the Government parties that the Prime : Minister  (Mr McMahon)  sought to have a similar motion carried by those parties but he was unsuccessful. So tonight his dummy in this place has come forward and put th h motion, which seeks to take the heat off or to remove the pressure from what is one of the greatest supporters in this country of the Liberal Party - the 'Daily Telegraph' or the 'paper you can trust'. 
I do nol say that I agree with the procedure adopted in respect to the charging of persons with a breach of the privilege of this Parliament. I think that there is room for reform in respect to the procedures adopted. But I am one who believes that it should not pass outside the scope of members of this Parliament to decide in relation to those who have breached what we consider to be the rights, dignity and privileges of this House. I am one who seeks reform in this respect but not reform which sets up an outside body to decide on such matters. It must be reform which, within the Standing Orders, allows the Parliament to deliberate in respect of matters of privilege. 
The present method does not allow people to make what one would call an impartial judgment. I do not know how people who are members of this Parliament one day and judges the next can be expected to be impartial. I am just a layman but. quite frankly, I could not divorce from my thoughts my opposition to or my hatreds, as the case may be, of honourable members opposite if I were promoted to the judiciary tomorrow. I do not think it is human to expect members of this Parliament to sit in judgment on people who have criticised them for years in the Press and otherwise and find impartially in respect to their activities. In that respect, I think that the Privileges Committee has shown certain shortcomings which should be covered by the reform which has been advocated over the years by honourable members on both sides of the Parliament. 
Having read closely the evidence in this case and having been a member of this Parliament for 28 years, I know that the parties concerned in this breach of privilege case are guilty of contempt of this Parliament. I know it is impossible to get out when a quorum is called. I was one of the 5 members present on this side of the Parliament when a quorum was called on that night, but I do not hold myself up as a hero for being present. I will tell honourable members why I was present. I was at a meeting along way from here and the bells began to ring. As I did not know for what reason they were ringing, I dashed along to the chamber. I was told that the bells were ringing to summon a quorum. I said:'I could not care less. I am going to find out who called for the quorum and what I am going to do to him will not be printable'. When I got into this chamber I found that I could not get out. Here I was a hero among 5 simply because the Standing Orders prohibited me from leaving through this door, that door or any other door I could find. I will tell honourable members something. After 28 years here, I would have foundmy way out of this chamber if there was a way out. That, above all else, proves to me that  Mr Reid  could not have been right when he said that members of the Opposition had walked out. It is just not possible to get out of this chamber. Standing order 47 prevents one from doing so. 
Despite the fact that  Mr Reid  said that he was told certain things, I think he was writing by Chance. Whilst that might have its humorous side let me say that it is important to the people outside to know that their parliamentary representatives did not walk out of the chamber in order to cause the Parliament to collapse. Let me say also that the calling of quorums is one of the oldest tricks in the game of politics. A member of the Opposition can keep a government on its toes by calling for a quorum when he knows that his colleagues are not present. That is how one keeps the Government awake in the middle of the night and in the daytime as well. Honourable members will all agree that it is pretty hard for the Liberals to keep awake, even in the middle of the day. But the fact of the matter is that it is one of the tricks of the game of politics. The people outside do not know about it, but it is like a punch in a scrum in a game of rugby league or anything else; it is a part of the game. Honourable members who know the Standing Orders should use them. The fact that when a quorum is called the Opposition is not here is no discredit on the Opposition. It shows that it is awake and keeping the Government on its toes. Honourable members opposite are paid to keep a quorum in the House. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  is never in his place when a quorum is called. 
I say quite sincerely that a reform of parliamentary privileges is long overdue, not to place it out of the scope of the Parliament but to place it in a more judicial light whereby we might be able to divorce our hatreds or animosities from those in the Press and other places who come before us. At the same time I believe that honourable members who have read this evidence closely will recognise that the editors who printed and the persons who wrote this matter were guilty of stating something about this Parliament which was untrue. I could not care less what the Government thinks of it, but honourable members on this side of the House do not want to bcategorised as people who do not care for the dignity of Parliament, as people who walk out and let the Parliament collapse, particularly when these suggestions are untrue and affect us in the community. It is a very serious allegation which was made against members of this Parliament, and if the charges have been proved against these people - as they undoubtedly have, as would be accepted by those who read the evidence - the requirement that they tender an apology is, compared with what happened in the Browne-Fitzpatrick case, a very mild form of rebuke. I put it in the category of being brushed across the forehead with a feather. 
Browne and Fitzpatrick were brought before the Bar of the House charged with contempt not of the Parliament but of one member. Within 48 hours they were on their way to gaol for an offence against one member. Those concerned in this latest incident have been found guilty by the Privileges Committee of an offence against the whole Parliament. But what are they required to do? They are not required to come before the Bar of the House, but just to tender an apology. To my mind this is a mild punishment indeed, and Browne has the right to ask that his case be reopened and that we apologise to him because he received 3 months imprisonment for an offence against one member of this Parliament while this present offence is against the whole Parliament. These are matters that we have to consider and arc worthy of consideration at this stage. Even though the Committee has brought in this recommendation there are those who seek just to accept it and do nothing about it. They will be the laughing stock of the country if that is the case. Some penance is necessary for those who offend the dignity of this Parliament. This is a very mild penalty which is sought by the Privileges Committee. 
I give all due respect to my honourable friend who had the courage to vote in the Committee on a matter he saw affecting the dignity of his Parliament. I give credit to those who may have voted against the findings of the Committee because they did not agree with the methods adopted by the Privileges Committee which I mentioned earlier. But nothing can lake away the fact that even without a trial honourable members know that those concerned in. this offence were stating false things about this Parliament, lt might look funny to the public, bat there is nothing humorous in being depicted as people who do not do the right thing by those who have elected us. We have certain dignities and responsibilities. We occupy a high position in this country. And: if pressmen and others make is a laughing stock in this country and we do not take due retribution when we can take it in accordance, with the Standing Orders, that is something that honourable members must bear, realising that they are not doing the right thing by the people who sent them here. I understand that  Mr Browne  has already written to  Mr Speaker  asking whether he might appear before the Parliament again to vindicate his name in view of the leniency extended to those who offended not just one member, but the whole Parliament. While I do not want to show personal bias against the 'Daily Telegraph',  Mr Reid  or others. I suppose that not only no member of the Labor Party but also no member on the Government side has any love for them. That is why I seek reform of parliamentary privileges. Quite frankly, I would find it difficult to give any of them a very fair trial if 1 were a member of the judiciary.' I am honest about that. But there could come an occasion when I. sit on that Privileges Committee. That is why I say tonight that it is time for reform. 
From long, bitter and tedious experience, I know - and I repeat- that an honourable member cannot get out through the doors of this chamber when a quorum is called. Some of the smartest characters in this House have been beckoned back by you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  or by the intelligent  Clerk  who sits on my right. Therefore we know that the article which is the subject of this case was written from fantasy, as it were, in an endeavour to discredit not so much the Liberal Party but the members of the Labor Party. We appear to be always the villains in this case. We are expected to stay here while the Liberals go to sleep all day. We are expected to keep the House for them, as it were. 
The people who really suffered in this case were not the members of the Government parties but the members of the Opposition. When it is the responsibility of the Government te run the House, why should members of the Opposition be defamed by a statement which was untrue and falsely represented and one in relation to which the Committee has found those responsible for its publication guilty of a breach of privilege? I pay tribute to those members of the Committee who have brought in this verdict in view of all the evidence. Let me say to the Committee that I think it is a pretty shabby state of affairs when after deliberations that lasted, 1 understand, for more than 30 hours, a decision was reached when some members could not possibly .be present because of their commitments. Surely when men's liberties are at stake it is good enough to expect that a committee meeting will be called al a time when all its members can be present so that all who have heard the evidence can deliberate on the issues that have to be decided. To reach a decision when a couple of members are away is not, to my mind, good enough. To the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  who T understand exercised a casting vote, I say good luck for his courage on this important issue because it is a difficult position to be put in. 
Let me say in summary that I hope the House will give consideration to reviewing the procedures involved in the trying of men when their liberty could be at slake in certain circumstances. There is room for improvement in these procedures. Having read closely every vestige of the evidence in this case, and backed up by long experience in this Parliament, 1 say that the findings of this Committee are correct, and if we adopt the motion moved by the Leader of the House it will be one of the greatest discredits ever brought on this national Parliament. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I meant no reflection on the honourable member for Ryan. All I implied was that I thought it was unfortunate that meetings had been called when all members could not be there because of circumstances. I assure the honourable member that I made no personal reflection on him in relation to the calling of that meeting. 
1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. . The Minister for Social Services made certain allegations against me which are known to the House. The point I was explaining was that  Mr Reid's  statement must have been completely false because under the Standing Orders it is impossible for an honourable member to leave the House when a quorum has been called. I. did not at any stage say that it was the Opposition's intention to leave the House. Rather 1 sought to prove the falsity of the statement by indicating not that 1 was frying to get out of the House but that it was completely wrong to suggest that any member of this Parliament could get out once a quorum had been called. I explained the position clearly to the House and the Minister has misinterpreted what I said in an endeavour to defend one of his friends, irrespective of the findings of the Committee. 
Very briefly though nonetheless sincerely I desire to associate myself with the sentiments which have been so nicely expressed about  Mr Turner  and his good wife tonight. When one remembers that he has given almost 50 years of service to the Parliament, that in itself is a remarkable record. In that time he has built up a personal record of friendship with those who have been associated with him. He has lived in some very notable periods in the history of this country. He has seen some good days and some bad days. He has seen in every way in this Parliament the progress of the nation. That he has rendered service in such a way as to bring forth the tributes which have been paid to him tonight shows that he has a commendable record in the public life of this country. 1 think that there is always something sad or sentimental at a time when a man's career is ending, and this must be a somewhat sad moment for  Mr Turner.  We have our parting with him, but tonight he walks out of this place and away from surroundings which no doubt are known to him like his home. He commences a new life after almost i alf a century of work in this place. I think that the greatest things he will remember from his service in this Parliament - I hope he does - are the tributes paid to him tonight for the record of service which he has given, a record which is appreciated by those of us who are here now and by many who possibly are no longer wilh us. The voices of the various leaders in this Parliament and of various members were raised tonight, and I hope that down through the happy years ahead they will ring out and bring back to him constant and happy memories of our association with him and his good wife. 1 wish  Mr Turner  very good luck and good health in his retirement. 1 hope that occasionally if he does not listen to other members he will tune in to me now and again. If I really know that he is listening I will disobey the Standing Orders and possibly give him a cheerio call. Might I say also that after 50 years in the service of anyone I should like to look as young as he does and have as much hair on my head as I see on his tonight. I wish him and his good wife  very  good luck and a very merry Christmas. We know he will have it but, as he knows, some of us will not. 
We have just listened to a remarkable speech from the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  the man who lectures on wage restraint and arbitration. J have here a report on the Parliamentary Salaries and Allowances Act. lt shows that the Treasurer receives $29,100 per annum. It was recommended to be increased, in the report of  Mr Justice  Kerr, to $34,650, $5,550 extra. The Leader of the Opposition thought that the man who preaches wage restraint would have given up that $5,550 and struggled along on his $29,100. We thought he might have had a little compassion. But, no. He is one of the men who said: 'I want my extra $5,550. I cannot live on my $29,100.' Next year he will be going into the national wage case to argue against the workers receiving any increase. What hypocrisy at the highest level. What contemptible conduct by the Treasurer of this country. 
I withdraw the remark. The Treasurer speaks of wage restraint and of arbitration. Let us look at this Government's approach to arbitration and at the conduct of the Treasurer on the matter he raised a few moments ago in relation to the Opposition.  Mr Justice  Kerr brought down a report. This arbitration was emasculated by a slight majority of a docile Cabinet, of which the Treasurer is one. Then, after not accepting the report of the Treasurer, without bringing anything to the notice of the Opposition whilst it was deliberating, not knowing any of the details, the Treasurer almost hammered down the door of the room of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and said: Take it or leave it.' He said: Tn 5 minutes time the Prime Minister is to introduce the Bill. Take it or leave it, or he will not introduce it.' 
I respect your ruling,  Mr Chairman,  but I point out to the Treasurer that he accused this Party of playing politics with Parliamentary salaries. Surely I am entitled to reply to that and say to this House today- 
I will just make passing reference to it. The Treasurer and the Deputy Prime Minister of this country threatened 3 members of the Opposition and said: 'Take it or leave it' in relation to an arbitration report that they had emasculated and sought to ram down our necks. But look at them struggling along on their $29,000 and $30,000. They are the wage restraint party. They say that the worker on his $50 is disturbing the economy. But these great men, these mcn of high principle - the Treasurer who lectures us will lead the Government into the courts to argue against the national wage case for workers - these are the men who refuse to give up a few thousand dollars and live on their $30,000 and yet they clamour for people in this country to accept wage restraint. The very day that they refused people in this country wage increases, in another place they introduced  a  measure to give $6,000 and $7,000 per annum increase in salaries to people who are struggling along on $22,000 and $23,000. This is the situation we face today and this is the Government that seeks to lead this country. 1 have never seen in all my years in this Parliament such a docile and incompetent Prime Minister, a hand picked Ministry, yes men to the core, prepared to sacrifice completely all the interests of the people of this country. 
 Mr Chairman,  I get back to the $6,000 and the $7,000. I think the people will be interested to know that if they re-elect the Government - I understand they may have an opportunity early in the new year - whose members advocated $6,000 and $7,000 increases for people in another place, the Prime Minister will want $51,000 per annum as a salary and will expect workers to take $5 or $6 a month or a year, as the case may be. They will think we will want a Treasurer who cannot live on $29,000 per annum and run the country. 
 Mr Chairman,  your decision is remarkable in view of the fact that the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Leader of the Opposition all discussed this, and if you persist in your attitude I will have to move dissent from your ruling. 
 Mr Chairman,  I know it is embarrassing to you, but we on this side of the Parliament have had charges made against us, and 1 personally do not intend to desist from pursuing this line. If you rule against me and refuse to let me reply to the Treasurer I will move dissent from your ruling. 
 Mr Chairman,  with due deference, I intend to persist with what I have to say. I do not intend to be told how I can reply to a Government that is hypocritical in its approach to all these matters, preaches wage restraint on the one hand and then extends wages increases to its favoured friends and sets a tragic example by refusing to restrain in any way their own wage increases. It takes every piece of economic blood from the average worker 
Motion (by  Mr Uren)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Grayndler be further heard. 
asked  the  Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many (a) males, and (b) females between the ages of 18 and 21 are currently employed  in  Australia. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What are the general terms and conditions under which Japanese citizens are admitted to Australia for employment? 
How many have been admitted to Australia for employment in each of the last 5 years? 
What were their (a) occupational classifications, (b). wages or salaries, (c) industries of employment (d) terms of employment and (e) locations? 
How many of those admitted in the last 5 years and still in Australia are (a) in their original occupational classifications, (b) in the industry in which they werefirst employed and (c) at their original locations? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Was it stated in the 1969 Budget Speech that it was the Government's policy to assist independent schools so that they would be able to provide places for that proportion of the school population which in the past had sought education at independent schools and to develop in the future in quantity and quality more or less in line with the development of government schools. 
Was it also stated in the 1970 Budget Speech that the Commonwealth continues to make a significant contribution to the expansion and improvement of Australia's education services. 
If so, why has the Government not fulfilled these obligations to independent schools and what action does it intend to take to (a) increase per capita payments, (b) provide capital funds for new school buildings and (c) provide funds for teacher education. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many (a) senators and (b) members of the House of Representatives have served in the Australian Parliament since Federation. 
How many (a) senators and (b) members have served (i) in broken periods and (ii) consecutively for (A) 20. (B) 25, (C) 26, (D) 27, (E) 28, (F) 29 and (G) 30 or more years. 
What are the names of the senators and members concerned in each case. 
What was the longest period served in each House . and . who was the (a) senator and (b) member concerned. 
What was the (a) shortest time served and (b) average time served by members in each House. 
In view of the action of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  in terminating the speech of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who was in the course of bringing to the public gaze the discomfiture of every Government supporter on this important issue, I second with great pleasure the motion that is before the Parliament. No one can say that Standing Orders should not be suspended in order to discuss the great increase in steel prices by that huge monopoly, Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. No one can deny that this is an important subject. It has a national effect. It affects the living standards, the savings and the welfare of Australians everywhere and the fact that the Government will not allow a vote on this issue is something about which the people should be enlightened. I do not wonder that honourable members opposite do not want to discuss this matter or let us suspend Standing Orders. Even without this great issue Government supporters are quivering in their seats knowing that they are on the way to political doom. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is a tragic figure in the Parliament. We saw him today almost breaking down with emotion, unable to answer the charges levelled on this great issue of the national increase in the price of steel. 10157/71- .im- J 
The Government seeks to evade the public gaze by avoiding a vote on why it is applying double standards to society in Australia and why wage earners who comprise 90 per cent of the people have to prove their case in the courts against Government opposition when investors, represented by BHP and Government supporters, get unlimited patronage from honourable members opposite. That is the issue that Government members seek to evade today. Members of the Country Party also seek to evade a vote on it because they know that their leader has publicly supported the increase in the price of steel although it will mean that the cost of every fowl house and pig sty will go up. We know that every form of equipment used in the country will increase in price and honourable members in the Country Party know that they cannot afford to vote with their leader on this issue. What I have to say is of vital importance, particularly to members of the Country Party. Every item of machinery used in shearing will increase in cost as will every form of farm equipment under these proposals. Yet the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has said that the increase in the price of steel is justified and that he is in favour of it. No wonder the newly knighted honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  does not want a vote on this issue to show that he supports the steel price increase. 
What we are seeking to show by moving for the suspension of Standing Orders is that every member on the Government side is afraid to vote on the issue because he knows the public will condemn his actions and he will go to his political doom. Why should we not vote on this steel price issue? It reeks of injustice and discrimination. It shows how wage earners are being blamed for the inflation that exists when such is not the case because it is due to the excessive profits made by Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd and others under the patronage of this Government. The Government seeks to evade a vote on the suspension of Standing Orders because it does not want the public to know how it is protecting its great and wealthy interests in the community irrespective of the effect on the living standards of Australians everywhere. And honourable members opposite who want to avoid this issue by not supporting this motion are sponsoring proposals which give another 5i per cent increase in the price of steel to those who own this great monopoly in addition to the 8 per cent or 9 per cent increase earlier in the year. At the same time they give out $8m in concessions- 
Far be it for me to endeavour to evade a ruling of the Chair, as you well know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I was giving under headings the reasons why Standing Orders should be suspended in order that a vote on the motion under discussion can be taken. I mentioned earlier the importance of this subject and no one can deny it. I mentioned, that it is a question of double standards applying to wage earners and others and also that it affects every section of society, particularly those people whom you represent with great distinction in the country districts of Queensland. I mentioned that these factors are such that Standing Orders should be suspended in order that we in this Parliament can know where every honourable member stands on the question of whether we support the giving of favours to this great company at the expense of the Australian people. Surely these are matters which merit the suspension of Standing Orders; surely the issues involved in these questions I have raised are ones from which no honourable member can scurry away and hide. And surely honourable members like the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  would be prepared to rise and say whether they support this monstrous act by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and others. Surely we are entitled to know whether the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and other members of the Government who have expressed views on this subject, such as the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr 
Gorton) and others, intend to back their statements on the question of prices and inflation by supporting this motion before the Chair for the suspension of Standing Orders. The reason why we should have a vote on a measure like this is plain. 
On this side of the Parliament we are sick and tired of the Government evading its responsibilities and not voting on issues which are of paramount importance to the Australian people. I believe the Australian people are entitled to know the views of those on this side, whether or not votes are taken, who represent about SO per cent of the people, or are we to be cast aside when the issues are to be presented. We would not under any circumstances move for the suspension of Standing Orders if the Government would have a fair vote on these questions but when it dodges its responsibilities, refuses to answer the' charges and flippantly and arrogantly treats the Opposition with contempt, why should we not move for the suspension of Standing Orders to discuss this issue? You can take it from me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that if I were on the Government side I would not want to vote on this issue either. I know full well the feelings of those on the other side of the House. They know that their supporters would not support the giving of a concession this year to a company which made 68m last year. Over the past few years this company has made profits in the vicinity of $50m or $60m per annum and it is now receiving additional assistance from the Government, with the Australian Country Party sponsoring the move. If I were a member on the Government side I would not want a vote on that either. That is why honourable members opposite have stopped the honourable member for Hindmarsh from continuing his brilliant speech. The Government has endeavoured to silence him in his criticism and his fight for justice for the people throughout this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Order! That has nothing to do with the motion before the Chair. I ask the honourable member for Grayndler to return to the motion before the Chair. 
I will not mention the honourable member for Hindmarsh. I know that his arguments are too telling and that even you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with due deference, get upset when his name is mentioned, so great is the terror he puts into those opposite. But I think that some honourable member on the Government side should tell the Opposition why they will not allow the suspension of Standing Orders so that we can have a vote on this issue. Governments are put in and out of office on votes. We will become a no-vote Parliament if this motion is not carried. The motion for the suspension of Standing Orders is an indication by the Opposition that it wants to know where everybody in the Parliament stands. Why should the Government not support a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders if its policy is right, if it has made a just move? If the Government could not prevent the increase in steel prices and did everything possible, what is wrong with a vote on an issue like this? The only reason why a vote will not be taken and why the Government will not support the measure is that honourable members opposite have guilty consciences. I do not blame the Government. 1 know the reasons for its actions. But if everything is above board on the question of BHP, why should this motion not be carried and why should the Standing Orders not be suspended to give everybody the opportunity to say what they would do on this issue? 
I think that the case for the suspension of Standing Orders is unanswerable. I cannot visualise any honourable member opposite being prepared to come into the Parliament and speak against it. As I said earlier, I would like to hear what several members on the Government side have to say in respect of the suspension of Standing Orders. It would be desirable to hear what the right honourable member for Higgins has to say. The Minister for Social Services, so vehement at the Apia Club on the question of the economy, has once again been silenced by his master.  1  suppose the Prime Minister thinks that he personally makes enough silly statements without the Minister for Social Services doing the same. But the matters are these: As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - I do not want to transgress your ruling - and as everybody knows, the Government is a disunited rabble today. It has policies for every day of the week. Every Minister has a different policy - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I defer to your ruling, knowing the embarrassment you must feel on such occasions when you are unfortunate enough to be in the Chair when the Government you support is under attack. Naturally, I will not continue along that line. I repeat what the motion is. All Australians should know it. I know that countless millions of them will be listening to me on this occasion. Honourable members opposite may sneer, but I know that the people listen to me and I know that they listen to honourable members on this side of the Parliament, particularly on issues like this. I say to the Australian people that the motion moved by the honourable member for Hindmarsh is that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Hindmarsh from moving that the House believes that the Government should have acted to restrain the latest increase in steel prices by BHP. That is a fundamental and a national issue. From the attitude taken by the Government, let me tell the Australian people that it is ashamed of its policy and will not allow a vote to be taken on it in the Parliament. The Government is ashamed to let this be taken to a vote in this assembly. The Australian people should realise that there is patronage unlimited for BHP; there is suppression for the workers of this country; there is unlimited unemployment under the policy being sponsored by this Government which refuses, on a great national issue affecting every wage earner in the community and every person in the country districts, to allow a vote to be taken. The Government sits silently by, refuses to defend its policy and refuses to allow a vote to be taken on it.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as I gaze for these last few months on this departing Government let me say that never has a government deserved more to be beaten, never has a government shirked its responsibility so much, never has a government avoided its obligations more and never has a government deserved more to be cast out. 

 Mr 
 DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Order! 

asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the value of Australian notes in circulation. 
Is there a statutory limit; if so, (a) how is the limit fixed and (b) how are fluctuations dealt with. 
I do not think it would be right to let a momentous occasion in Australian history pass without saying a few words and that is to express today on this, the sixty-fourth birthday of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  a very happy birthday. I am sorry that I cannot say: 'Many happy returns'. It would not be appropriate because we know it would not be correct. Today is the 64th birthday of the Prime Minister, but almost every member in the Parliament appears to have forgotten the fact. It is an event that should be mentioned. The Prime Minister has been in difficulty from time to time, but even though personally and politically we are opposed to him that is no reason why on this day we should not express our congratulations on his achieving what some of us will not achieve - his age. 
He has been in all kinds of trouble in recent years and he has reached a desperate stage. He has even added to his staff one Jonathan Gaul who I suppose might be likened to Simon of Cyrene and is expected to carry the cross for the last 100 yards. Of course, this is not a happy thought oh one's birthday. When all is said and done, as he is Father of the Year and the Daddy of them all, why should not we all congratulate him on this occasion? I cannot help but think of a famous song of days gone by which possibly is more appropriate today than ever before. It is one of those lilting, loving lullabies which could well be applied to the Prime Minister. It goes something like this: 
There wilt always be a Billy while there's a BHP, 
Because it has paid its dividends since 1883, But if we should lose our Billy wherever would we be, 
If Billy means the same to you as Billy means to me.  1 think that is the type of song which the Prime Minister would like us to sing on his birthday. One looks at what has happened throughout the year and remembers that the Prime Minister is the Daddy of them all, but not one member on the Government side has thought fit to congratulate him on his birthday. One even expresses good wishes to one's enemies on their birthdays, but not one member of the Ministry which the Prime Minister has personally selected has expressed his good wishes on this occasion. The members of the Ministry must think that the Prime Minister is going, otherwise why would not one of them have said: 'Happy birthday, dear Billy, happy birthday to you'? This is what one would have expected to be said, but nothing has been forthcoming. Somewhat sadly but nonetheless sincerely it is left to the Opposition to express these wishes to the leader of the nation. That proves that in every way we are non-political, decent and respectable and that we appreciate the fact that even if the Prime Minister's own friends forget him there are always a couple of members on this side of the chamber who will do the right thing in a crisis. 
I thought that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  might have risen and expressed his good wishes. Would it not have been nice to hear the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  asking us to join in singing 'O my papa* or 'Happy birthday to you'? Would it not have been nice to hear the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  who is so distinguished with his new flowing style, rise and express good wishes to his Prime Minister? But no, the dear Prime Minister is unknown, unheralded and unsung, as it were. The man who brought these other men to power by his own great force has today left the Parliament unheralded and unsung, and not one member on the Government side has bothered to say that he wishes the Prime Minister a happy birthday. I do not see him in the House tonight, but would not one have thought that the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  would have said a word for the Prime Minister? 
He is not here. But after all is said and done, the Prime Minister knighted  Sir Winton  when many of us would have crowned him. If the Prime Minister would do that for the honourable member he ought to have stayed to wish the Prime Minister good luck on his birthday. But there has not been a word from the Government side. I think that it is a foreboding of things to come. In fact, I have had a look at the stars today. I seldom study the stars, but for those who trust them let me give the Prime Minister's horoscope for today. He belongs to Pisces which covers the period from 19th February to 20th March. This is what the stars say about the Prime Minister: 
You must finish rather than meander. 
Is that not so true? It continues: 
Stop wishing the past would return. 
That is today's horoscope for the Prime Minister on his birthday. What a foreboding! I am sorry that the Prime Minister did not wait to hear this because if the stars say that you are wrong, greater people than the Prime Minister know that that can be right. 
I have no wish to detain the House, but I thought that on this momentous occasion even though the Prime Minister's friends have forgotten him - even those poor people or those brilliant people whom he selected and put into the Ministry, the Assistant Ministers and others, in order to give him a majority in caucus - I should wish him good luck. I know that I have the support of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  whenI do it. I know that all members of the Parliament here wish the Prime Minister success on this happy day. 
Yes. 
It would appear that I have a defector. A birthday is always an occasion for a celebration, and the Prime Minister of the nation is entitled to receive congratulations. I thought that 1 would demonstrate the respect which we on this side of the chamber show for the Prime Minister but which is lacking on the other side of the chamber. With dignity, decorum and sincerity I express our good wishes to the Prime Minister. I am sorry that I cannot wish him many happy returns because I believe that he will not be back. It becomes political when one expresses those wishes. I thought that the Treasurer would have said a few words today. After all, he owes the Prime Minister much. Between the 2 of them they have done a lot of things for the country which have not been good, and they ought to stick together on the Prime Minister's birthday. 
No, he is always up to date. In any event, I rise in the dying stages of this evening to congratulate the Prime Minister. Of course, what the Country Party thinks of the Prime Minister should not be said on his birthday; it just would not be right. But let us from this side of the House express goodwill with dignity and decorum. In the dying stages of a Liberal Government, on behalf of the Opposition I again express to the Prime Minister very best wishes for a happy birthday. I am extremely sorry that even the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  has not thought fit to speak on this occasion. I am very sorry that questions were not directed to the Prime Minister on these lines. If the stars are against the Prime Minister and his friends are against him - half his Party is- the least that we on this side of the chamber can do is to help him along a bit on this day which ought to be a happy one. Let us hope that the stars are right for once. Let us hope that the Prime Minister enjoys his birthday. On this his first and last birthday as the Prime Minister of Australia, I wish him many happy returns for the day only. 1 express that goodwill and those good wishes in the absence of any such congratulations from members on the Government side. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts upon notice: 
What is the Aboriginal population in (a) each State and (b) Australia. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on behalf of the Opposition. I believe that it represents the real opinions of the Australian people in regard to providing increases in social welfare benefits. I have studied the proposals that are before the House, and at a time when 130,000 people are unemployed - an increase of 46 per cent since last year - the Government has increased unemployment benefits by the miserable amount of $7 a week. In making a study of unemployment benefits one finds that there have been 5 increases in unemployment benefits in 23 years. The Government has thought so much about the unemployed in the last 23 years that the average increase in benefits has been 63c. In all that time the Government has increased the wife's allowance by only 21c a week, and on this occasion it has not bothered to increase it from the existing rate of $8 a week. Today, at a time when we are told average wages are $90 a week, this Government expects a man to live on $17 a week. That in itself is scandalous in the extreme, and there can be no justification for the smallness of this increase. 
It is significant that until men and women are suffering the Government does not bother about unemployment relief. It was only in 1962, when the Government went within one seat of defeat because of (he unemployment situation, that it increased unemployment benefits after a period of 4 years. There was no increase in unemployment benefits between 1949 and 1952. Another 5 years elapsed before there was another increase in unemployment benefits, and then another 4 years elapsed before a further increase was given. Then there was a gap of 7 years before there was a further increase in unemployment benefits, and then the increase was given only because the Government was frightened of defeat. It has been 3 years since the last increase was made. 
As everyone knows, the cost of living has been increasing constantly. This shows that the Government's approach to this matter is paltry in the extreme. Let us compare the Government's approach to this matter with its approach to increasing the salaries of High Court judges. On the last occasion that the salaries of High Court judges were reviewed, the Government increased them by the princely sum of about $20 a day, or about $130 a week. There are double standards right through society under this Government. There is one law for those who have nothing and another law for the wealthy. 
On Tuesday the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  got up in this chamber and in a rambling, rabble rousing speech told us about communism and other matters without getting down to the fact that this Government has neglected the economy, it has failed to provide employment and now reduces people to the position where they have to live on unemployment benefits which are 30 per cent below the poverty level. Therefore, no credit can be given to the Minister in this regard. This morning the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that the Minister's heart was in the right place.  His  heart might be in the right place, but it does not coincide too well with his mind on these questions. He is just talking and doing nothing in a practical way about these matters. 
The Government says that unemployment has been caused because of the communists. Fancy the members of the Australian Country Party attacking the communists. They have made millions of dollars out of wheat and wool sales to communist countries. But now because they cannot sell their wheat to the communist countries they have turned on their friends, the communists. Now members of the Country Party blame the communists for everything that is happening. One of the reasons why the present unemployment situation has arisen is because companies, like Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd which makes huge profits of $68m per annum, are increasing their prices to such an extent that it is impossible for people to work and to maintain their family at a decent standard of living. 
Today we saw the launching of the Liberal Party's campaign against the Australian Labor Party - references to strikes and communists. Why would not men strike when everything they want at the present time is increasing in price because of the recent price increase made by BHP? These people are expected to live on the same level of wages when there are increases of 10 per cent, 15 per cent and 20 per cent in the price of every basic commodity into which steel goes. These are the facts behind the present unemployment situation. Men strike today because they cannot live under the economic policies to which this Government is giving effect. I say to honourable members opposite: lt is all very well to rant and rave about strikes, trade unionists and communists, but the real reason why prices are high has nothing to do with strikes and very little to do with communists. Prices are high because of the actions of those who exploit and profiteer - companies like BHP and others which are the darlings of this Government. Increasing costs are causing dissatisfaction and ultimately Australia will be priced out of the markets of the world because of the greed and desire for profit of these companies. 
I cannot help but think that with 130,000 people unemployed today, any self-respecting government would resign. The country is crying out for hospitals, schools and development. In every field of national endeavour there is scope within which to provide work in plenty. This could be done if only the Government had an economic policy which provided work. Today one out of every 2 children leaving universities and schools cannot obtain a job under this Government. It gives them a miserable few dollars a week in unemployment benefits to live on and sends them into the gloom of unemployment. I lived in the depression years. I remember the time when one out of every 3 people in this country was out of work, and I never want to see that again. 
For the Government to say that the Labor Party seeks to get into office through exploiting the unemployment position is scandalous and contemptible in the extreme. No-one seeks government on the basis of poverty. All that we on this side of the chamber seek to do is to sheet home to the Government its responsibilities in the field of economic policy which has caused the present state of affairs. What we on this side of the chamber seek to do is to maintain what the Chifley Government established in this country - full employment. Until it was defeated that Government maintained full employment. What that Government created has now been destroyed by the present Government, and I will tell honourable members why it has been done, lt has been done because the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said: 'Men are working harder today. They are not changing their jobs so much. They do not want to create discontent in industry, no matter how just their case. We have achieved our objective, what we set out to do. There are more men outside the gates looking for jobs than there are jobs.' By sheer economic pressure and suffering, these people have been forced into the position where they receive a day's pay not for a fair day's work but for twice a fair day's work. In that way efficiency is introduced in industry. The vicious pattern of tory governments of past generations is as existent within the confines of this Government as it was in any of its infamous predecessors. For honourable members opposite to criticise men who strike for justice, men who in many instances, by resorting to strike tactics, were responsible for many of the reforms which people in Australia enjoy today, does little credit to the Government. 
Was it not shameful the other night to see the Minister, without a case to put, come into this chamber and spend twothirds of his time talking about communism and all these other things - anything but the actual measure before the House? When he announced the increases in unemployment benefits he said that they would be increased to the princely sum of $17 a week. Just think that today under this Government a youth is expected to live on $7.50 a week if he is out of work. If he is aged between 18 and 20 years he can receive $11 a week in unemployment benefits. What a magnificent performance in a time of unemployment. I wonder whether any honourable member opposite has ever realised what it is like to be out of work; to see the degradation that comes to a person who cannot get a job and to see how his whole life is spoilt - at the beginning of his life if he happens to be young. 
The Government would not have moved to increase unemployment benefits if an election had not been pending. I give a warning to honourable members opposite. Thank God that today the Australian people expect full employment. The last occasion on which this Government almost met its political doom was at a time when 100,000 people were walking the streets out of work. Like the Labor Party, the Australian people demand that people have the right to work. They demand the right to show their ability and to utilise their arts and crafts so that they may live in security. This Government has increased unemployment benefits - miserable as they are - not only because it knows they are justified and necessary, but also because the people demand it. 
I do not want to speak at greater length as the Bill is to go to another place within a couple of minutes. But I do not believe the reason which the Minister gave for sending the Bill to the other place so quickly. The increased payments can be made retrospectively. Increases in judges' salaries were made retrospectively. Why cannot unemployed people receive, their miserable $7 a week increase retrospectively? As I say, there is one standard for one section and another standard for others. The reason why the Minister wants to get this Bill passed is that he does not want further criticism of the Government's proposals from this side of the chamber. He wants to stifle criticism. Honourable members opposite have talked about communism and everything except the real reason why unemployment exists, and the Minister does not want to reply to the criticism. 
I summarise my views in this way: It is a miserable increase. It is long overdue, but it should be more in line with the proposals contained in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley. I say that the real cause of unemployment is the failure of this Government in the economic field and its failure to provide in a sound and sensible way a policy that will maintain full employment throughout the community. I support the amendment and condemn the miserable increase. However, we will take it because any morsel from this Government must be accepted. 
Amendment negatived. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion and Science, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a letter dated 30th August 1971 forwarded to all members of the Commonwealth Parliament by the Federation of Catholic Parents and Friends' Associations, Sydney, in which the Government is criticised for its alleged failure to honour its promises to the Catholic educational system. 
If so, will he make a complete reply to the letter and state the reasons for the Government's alleged failure to honour its promises and obligations to the Catholic educational system. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to a statement by a delegate to the Liberal Party State Council meeting in Melbourne recently in which he described Assistant Ministers as '. . . . eunuchs and mules - sired by panic out of expediency' and said 'They should go back to the shed . . .?' If so, in view of the mystery surrounding the activities of the chosen few, is it a fact that the real reason for their appointment is, firstly, to provide immunity to certain Country Party members from opposition by the Liberal Party in the forthcoming elections and, secondly, to ensure that the Prime Minister has a majority in the Party room? If so, on what grounds does he justify public expenditure to maintain Country Party representation in the Parliament and his own precarious place of power in the political jungles of the Liberal Party? 
I wish to say a few words on this important subject. I listened to the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  As he indicated, we have our hardy annuals in tariff debates. Of course one of the most notable participants in these debates is my distinguished colleague, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  Today we heard him repeat his story about tariff policy, and of course I am in complete disagreement with him on many of the major proposals he puts forward. I mink that all honourable members, particularly, members of the Country Party, in considering this important question should refer to a speech made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  on tariff policy not so very long ago. I quote from it at the commencement of my speech to show a realisation by a member of the Country Party- I hope his . views are shared by all of his Party - of the importance of manufacturing industries to Australia. In the course of this speech he stated: 
Manufacturing provides some 28 per cent of our gross national product and 28 per cent of total employment 
That means that 1,500,000 people at least are directly employed in manufacturing industries. He went on to say: 
If we add to those directly employed in manufacturing industry those employed in providing services for the manufacturing industries a substantial proportion of all Australian employees are dependent on manufacturing for a livelihood. 
He went on to say: ' 
The value of factory output has been doubling every 9 or 10 years. The growth in exports of manufactures has been even more dramatic. Twenty years ago exports of manufactures amounted to only $50m or  4  per cent of our total exports. Indications are that in the current year they will exceed $800m and provide a fifth of our total exports.  Major contributions  are being made by chemicals, motor vehicles and parts, and iron and steel. Processed foodstuffs will provide another fifth. 
This indicates the tremendous amount of capital and labour involved in the manufacturing industries of Australia. He went on to say, and I read this for that distinguished knight, the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull): 
The sector of the economy which benefits most from tariff protection is undoubtedly manufacturing. However, it should not be overlooked that a very wide range of primary industries also receive some measure of tariff protection. 
Of course that protection is in addition to the bounteous bounties given by the Country Party from time to time. I do not wish to go right through this statement, but it is one that relates chapter and verse the value of manufacturing industry to Australia and the need in this country to see that manufacturing industries are fully protected in order to maintain not only their employing capacity but also the capital involved in them, which capital1 has made a major contribution to this country. 
I think the attitude of the Australian Labor Party on tariffs was clearly expressed today by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and also in a speech he made to this Parliament on 28th April 1971. In an election year when 130,000 people are unemployed - and the figure is mounting - I think the Australian people, and particularly those in industry, will want to know what are the policies of the major parties of this country on this important issue of tariff protection. I believe the honourable member for Lalor clearly stated in that speech on 28th April where the Australian Labor Party stood. He said: 
An Australian Labor Party government will be concerned to ensure that Australian resources are economically and efficiently used and that no excess prices are charged or unfair profits or other returns are made. An Australian Labor Party government will not permit an Australian industry to exploit protection to make excessive profits by charging high prices. But equally an Australian Labor Party government will not permit under any, circumstances an Australian industry which is operating economically and efficiently, and which is not charging high prices and making excessive profits, to be swept aside merely because some overseas competitor for a time may be able or willing to land goods at a lower price. With an Australian Labor Party government in office the Australian people can be assured that all those who work economically and efficiently will be protected, but no-one will be allowed to make excessive profits. 
That is a pretty clear statement and an assurance to those engaged in manufacturing industry as to where the Labor Party stands on this issue. I think all honourable members in the Parliament particularly those who value the contribution manufacturing industry has made to Australia, view with concern certain changes of mind in the Tariff Board and decisions that have been reached, and the reaction when Parliament occasionally critically examines some of the Board's decisions and on occasions rejects them. I am one who believes that the Tariff Board should always be subject to parliamentary review of its decisions. If we ever give way and accept that the Board's decision is binding without any review by this Parliament, we will completely defeat the purpose for which tariff boards were established'. We in this Parliament must always retain the right of review, because at times some of our industries will be destroyed if that is not done. I with others on this side of the Parliament view with concern certain decisions that are made by the Tariff Board. When I see reports from the Board, particularly ones such as the report on woven shirts which was mentioned earlier and which the Government rejected or deferred consideration of until the end of December next year, I cannot help think that some members of the Board are more concerned with the imported products than they are with the goods manufactured here. 
I am one who lived in this country when we could get very cheap motor cars. It was not difficult to buy them for a couple of hundred pounds, but not many people had the couple of hundred pounds for the simple reason that our raw materials were being exported. The cars were being manufactured abroad and Australians were in the position of not having work in their own industries because our industries were not established and overseas interests took the cream, as it were. To give an indication of what is happening even today I read a letter that I received from a manufacturer in my district. He wrote: 
I was advised by- 
And he named a shoe manufacturer - the other day, that some few years ago there were 450 shoe manufacturers in Australia and by the end of 1972 it is expected there will be SO. This is not because of expansion and take-overs but due to imports. 
It might be as well to point out to the Government and the Tariff Board that the Australian manufacturer generally does not require protection as much as equalising, viz: if an overseas country pays a lower wage than Australia, works longer hours, does not have nine public holidays per annum, long service leave, overtime rates, morning and afternoon tea breaks, five minutes or longer for washing before finishing, one week's sick pay, amenities such as lunch rooms, showers etc. and higher prices for raw and indigenous materials, which is natural because of the foregoing conditions - then it would be a simple matter to bring these discrepencies up to Australian conditions and I doubt if the Australian manufacturer would require any protection. We Australian manufacturers welcome these conditions as we feel that because of our standard of living, all must participate. 
Let us take as a simile, the members of the Tariff Board and other executives have only their labour to sell but there are continuous increases in their salaries to meet increased costs of living and yet the Tariff Board has said there must be a SO per cent ceiling and added that because of increases in wages and shortening of hours, the manufacturer must not expect an increase in the protection or equalising amount. 
That is a somewhat tragic commentary on how imports are ravaging an Australian shoe manufacturing industry. Whilst imported products are available very cheaply and in great quantities at certain times, immediately the Australian industry disappears from .the scene you will find that the goods that are imported will go up to the price of those goods which were previously manufactured in Australia, not because the cost of the imported products has increased at the basis of manufacture but because there is no Australian competition. I saw an article in the 'Sunday Australian' the other day entitled 'Cheap Asian labour threat to 45,000 jobs'. The subheading was: 'Rag trade fears shutdown as imports flood in'. The article reads: 
The Australian clothing industry is running into serious trouble. 'Big closures and major lay-offs are threatened as manufacturers find themselves unable to compete with cheap imports. 
I understand that there are 91,000 workers in the Australian garment industry and it estimates that it will have to lay off roughly 45,000 or about 50 per cent of them. Ninety per cent of the persons engaged in this industry are women. These lay-offs are threatened by a flooding of goods from countries where labour costs are not as high as those in Australia and where adequate protection is not being given. That article stated that goods had been flooding in from cheap labour countries and industry leaders claimed that they could land in Australia cheap garments made in China, Hong Kong and Singapore at about half the cost of manufacturing them in Australia. This competition threatens all sections of the clothing industry, which indicates that some effective tariff protection must be maintained in this industry in order to safeguard the capital and labour and particularly the jobs of the people concerned. That is why today I hope that the responsible Minister will reaffirm the Government's belief in an adequate tariff policy. It is necessary for the basis of tariffs to be reviewed and for certain changes to be made but let us not go back to the days of free trade when there was no ade.quate protection given. 
There is always pressure on Australian industries and Australian governments from importers seeking to remove tariff protection, because after all is said and done the importers do not care what effect the removal of protection will have on a country so much as what they can gain in profit. One of the major pressures applied to this Government and to every government comes from Japanese exporting interests. Not only are the Japanese the greatest traders in the world today but also they are the greatest pressure group and they are the greatest attackers of Australian tariffs and Australian protection. They are right on the beam in regard to colour television in Australia, although it is 3 years away. I noticed in a newspaper the other day an article which stated: 
The managing director of the Japanese Sony Corporation . . . arrived in Sydney yesterdayand urged the lifting of Australian tariffs on colour TV sets. He said it was a coincidence his trip came after last week's announcement of the introduction of colour TV in Australia in 1975. 
It was certainly a remarkable coincidence. But what a colossal hide he has to think that the Australian television manufacturing industry must go to the wall while Japanese television sets flood our market. The Japanese workers would be working while the Australian workers would not be engaged in employment in this industry. We would find that the price would be well up to what the cost would be in Australia because the margin would be very high if the Australian industry were unable to provide work for Australian people and at the same time maintain the competition that is necessary for that kind of thing. 
No. I would hope that the Government would resist that kind of pressure. We do not want the Japanese or anybody else coming here and telling us how our industries shall be protected. That is the judgment that a government and the members of the Parliament as the elected representatives of the people should make. Our policy on tariff protection should never be decided according to what suits the Japanese manufacturers, the Chinese manufacturers or anybody else who has an interest. Our policy should be determined on what concerns us and what suits our own people. I urge the Government to resist these pressures because with a breaking down in certain tariffs and decisions of the Tariff Board in more recent times I am not certain that the Government will maintain what the Deputy Prime Minister said was the accepted policy of both sides of this Parliament for a long time, namely to maintain adequate tariff protection. 
I turn now to another matter. I hope that future Tariff Board reports will be easier to understand and to read. Whilst I do not profess to be the brightest member of this House I suppose I have reasonable intelligence. I defy anybody, particularly the new knight from Mallee, to understand what this Bui is all about He will think that he is a real bright fellow, in any case  Her  Majesty said he was. I defy any honourable member in this place who is not a specialist in the field of economics to read and understand what this Bill is about. It refers to the *17i per cent', the free*, the '20 per cent', the '10 per cent', the 'section 7', 'to and including December', 'from and including January'. It is a mass of material. The Minister said in his second reading speech that it was a co-ordination of a number of documents presented to this Parliament. I would say that the vast majority of honourable members would find it difficult to analyse and understand these documents completely. I hope that when the reports are brought down and presented to this Parliament they will be not so much simplified as made more readable for the layman or those who are interested in this subject 
Some pictures would do well for some honourable members who sit on the other side of this House. I mention this matter because I think it is something that could be done. I reaffirm my support for full tariff protection for Australian industries. I repeat my gospel on this issue: I do not know precisely all the economics of it but if tariff protection means employment for Australian workers at the expense of workers in any other country, I am in favour of tariff protection to protect Australian jobs and Australian interests. It is a simple theory and a simple solution. I believe we owe an obligation to the people in our industries - those who put in capital, those who work in them and those who are indirectly employed in them - to ensure that full and adequate protection is given. It is an election year and I hope that the Government will give a similar assurance on this issue as has the Labor Party. 
I do not wish to detain the House for long, but we are nearing the end of a very important year in Australian political history. It is the end of the first year of government of the McMahon Ministry. The Prime Minister's 64th birthday was forgotten by his own colleagues and now this other historic event, the first year of office - 366 days - appears as though it might pass unnoticed. 1 say that it should be recorded and tonight, whilst the Government supporters are evidently silent and desire to forget it, it is again left to me to do the decent thing and say a few words about the first year of office, because when all is said and done it is going to be the first and the last. Who am I to let an occasion like that pass? These events occur infrequently in our political lives. I almost forgot the birthday of the Prime Minister and it was only in the fleeting moments of the day that I was able to rise and let that event be recorded in this Parliament. 
In view of the need to be specific on these matters and in deference to the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  let me say that 1 am not reading my speech but quoting from copious notes. Unlike him, on this issue I desire to be meticulously correct in my language. That leads me to this point: 10th March 1971 was an historic day, an unforgettable day in the history of Australia, a day indelibly recorded by subsequent events on the minds of all Australians. It was a day destined to leave its mark, unfortunately, on future generations. It was the day on which the right honourable member for Lowe was elected Prime Minister. Paris has its Bastille Day; London has the Trooping the Colour; America has the Fourth of July; and the Soviet has its May Day. What is wrong with Canberra having its day, its celebration, to commemorate the Night of the Long Knives in the Liberal and Country Parties, on 10th March 1971, and the first momentous, turbulent and disastrous 366 days of the McMahon Government. 
The Prime Minister himself has commented on the pervading gloom. In the year of China, a year when we seek a dialogue with China and to sell wheat, wool and eggs, as the honourable member for Mallee knows - in this the Year of the Rat - what a splendid opportunity to impress  Chairman  Mao and set a precedent for future generations. At 8.15 on Friday morning next, 10th March, when all good public servants are on their way to work - if there is any for them to do under this troubled Government - could not the Prime Minister and his supporters, if they are both willing and able, assemble at Commonwealth Bridge and, emulating  Chairman  Mao, in a more polluted stream swim the lake? A fleet of Commonwealth cars could follow the swimmers, simultaneously releasing hundreds of peacocks to preen and prance on the lake shores. Naturally, a ceremonial officer could arrange for our diplomatic friends, including those from the newest embassy just opposite the House, to assemble at the starting point, and after the swim, if there are any survivors, all could be invited to the Great Wall of the Lodge to toast the success of the occasion. 
Canberra lacks the aura of the Forbidden City - or even Queanbeyan - although no doubt many Government supporters will say that the Ming Dynasty gives Australia a great link with our future Chinese allies. At the end of the day a refreshed Prime Minister could challenge all comers to a game of ping-pong - undoubtedly the 'in' Chinese game at the moment and much safer for him at this stage in view of his present erratic squash form. I might say that squash is certainly not the Prime Minister's racket. As this great day almost coincides with the Ides of March a banquet should be held. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  discovered too late the truth of Shakespeare's words in 'Julius Caesar' as follows: 
Let me have men about me that are fat. Sleek headed men and such as sleep o' night. Yon Cassius has a lean and hungry look: He thinks too much: Such men are dangerous. 
The only difference 1 would have with Shakespeare is that the present Ministry, fat or thin, does not think at all. Caesar realised the wisdom of having men around him who were fat or corpulent. He disliked the lean and hungry look as exemplified by the Prime Minister, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  and the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes).  The Prime Minister has heeded the words of Shakespeare, as instanced by his Minister foi the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  to mention just a few who, whilst not being unduly obese, incline that way. 
Naturally, in keeping with the thoughts of  Chairman  Mao on his 'eternally happy workers', all speeches on the anniversary would be made by members of the Country Party, or as they might be more aptly described in the words of  Chairman  Mao the happy burrowing brigade'. At the close of the day as the weary and the fortified brigades wend their way through the silent and deserted avenues of the capital, to the strains of the carillon, they could chant the words of that lovely melody made famous by another emaciated hero Don Quixote, To Dream the Impossible Dream': This is my quest, to follow that star, no matter how hopeless, no matter how far*. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What is the estimated date on which the final results of the 1971 Census will be available? 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess, the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assemgled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country, show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available  to  provide for the building  of  public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to say in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth Increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the  non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public  enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 repeat the final section of my question. Furthermore, in view of the state of the economy and public concern at the disarray and disunity in the Government ranks at State and Federal levels, will the Prime Minister in the national interest seek an immediate dissolution of the Parliament so that the people may replace the whole Ministry? 
I wish to say a few words on Clause 21. I take the opportunity to express my dissatisfaction at how this Government is letting us debate clause 21. At 10.20 this evening the Government brought before the chamber a Bill containing 53 clauses, of which clause 21 is one. and demanded that it be passed through the Parliament tonight. As far asI am concerned, from here on tonight I will protest against every clause, including this one, because the Government has no right to ram the meassure down our necks. The arrangement in this House is that at 11.0 o'clock twice a week the question 'that the House do now adjourn' and the adjournment debate follows. The Government has repudiated this agreement. If this continues tonight I will speak every Tuesday night and make the Government gag me.. TonightI will speak on every clause from here on and make the Government gag me. This Government has no legislation before the Parliament. It is sham fighting. 
There are 53 clauses contained in this most contentious measure. The Opposition has moved a number of important amendments to several clauses. We are expected to sit here in the middle of the night with an incompetent Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and an incompetent Government trying to ram the Bill down our necks without proper discussion. It is monstrous and objectionable and for my part I will not take it. 
Yes. We debated state aid for 4 days. The Government has brought forward this Bill only to try to gain political capital out of certain issues. Why should we sit here? Why should arrangements be repudiated? I will read clause 21 to honourable members. It is something that honourable members ought to hear. Clause 21 (1.) states: 
The Commissioner may, from time to time, by advertisement in the daily newspaper or elsewhere, invite personsto apply for appointment as officers. 
A very imporant matter, and something that should not be, discussed at this hour of the night. It is a question on which every honourable member can express an opinion well worth hearing during the day or at any other time. Clause 21 (2.) reads: 
The Commissioner shall specify in any such advertisement - 
I ask honourable members to listen to this closely - 
the classes of positions in respect of which applications for appointment are invited; 
Is not that of great significance? It ought to be discussed. Why should we be expected to hurry through the Bill involving this issue in the dead of the night? Let us not forget the second part of sub-clause 2. It states: 
the salaries, or limits of salaries, that will be applicable upon appointment; 
What are they? What salaries has the Minister in mind? What has the Minister in mind in respect of salaries, appointments and the things that go with them? These are matters that the Minister does not want to explain. That is why at midnight he is trying to ram the Bill down the necks of members of the Parliament. The fact of the matter is that the Minister probably has not read the Bill in detail. Let us have a look at paragraph (c). It reads: 
where applicable - 
the age limits for appointment; 
What are the age limits for appointment? I am an inquisitive fellow. I would like to know. So would other honourable members on this side of the chamber. Does the Minister think he can sit there as stolid as an ox and get away with this at this hour of the night when public money is being spent? Men are being appointed to positions and we want to know the real facts of the matter. If I keep up this questioning he will surely go to the corner and get his information or his riding orders again. He has been doing that all night. Clause 21 (2.) (c) (ii) states:  the qualifications required to be possessed before appointment and the period, if any, within which the qualifications or any of them must have been obtained; 
That is a complicated question. I will read it again. It states:  the qualifications required to be possessed before appointment and the period, if any, within which the qualifications or any of them must have been obtained; 
What are the qualifications,  Mr Minister?  Tell honourable members on this side of the chamber precisely what is meant by that clause. I would like to hear it explained to me in detail. If I have to spend the rest of the night here, why not at least have somebody to talk to you between speeches on these important matters? Let us have a look at the third part of the clause which reads: 
The date on which persons who obtained or obtain the required qualifications during  a  period specified for the purposes of the last preceding sub-paragraph will cease to  be  qualified for appointment by virtue of those qualifications. 
Broadly, what the hell does that mean, I ask honourable members. The Minister himself does not know. He thinks that we on this side of the Parliament are suckers and are going to put up with it. We are awake to the fact that nobody on that side has read this legislation in detail. This is an extensive clause. It goes on: 
the manner of ascertaining the order  in  which offers of appointment will be made. 
That is an important provision. What is it? Evidently not one honourable member opposite knows. Then we come to (e), which reads:  the date by which applications for appointment are required tobe received. 
What is the date by which they are required to be received? Surely we are entitled to know the facts in relation to a complicated clause like this. We want information on these matters. Paragraph (f) is a vital one, too. It reads:  such other matters,  if  any, as the  Commissioner  considers desirable. 
What a broad blanket clause that is. We are expected to sit up and take it and let it go through. 
I would like to know whether the Minister really knows what is in clause 21. He has not said anything. He read out a document in the second reading speech but he said practically nothing in the Committee stage. I am sorry to detain honourable members but there are several parts of this clause. I come now to sub-clause (3.) which reads: 
Offers of appointment to qualified persons who have applied for appointment in pursuance of an advertisement under this section shall be made  in  the order ascertained in accordance with  the  terms of the advertisement. 
That is very complicated. It must have taken a long time to put it together. How do you pursue an advertisement, I am asked by my distinguished colleague from Fremantle. That will tax the Minister at the table. It is something that those who will be appointed under this Act will desire to know. Does it not show the sinister implications of the clause? Does it not indicate why the Minister is hiding it away from the light of day? Does it not indicate that there are hidden meanings in these clauses which the Government does not want the people of Australia to know? 
Sub-clause 4 provides: 
Nothing in this section prevents the appointment as an officer of a qualified person who has applied for appointment otherwise than in pursuance of an advertisement under this section- 
He has been pursuing it from the date it went in, I suppose. This is the clause that the Minister asks us to put through. I now come to clause 22. I do not like to upset the Parliament but I shall have to do this all night - we do not want to do it - for the simple reason that if we have time tomorrow maybe we will find out what pursuing an advertisement and all those other things mean. I make this kind of speech -I know that my colleagues support me - to register our protest at the interference with the rights of the next Government of this country in not letting it legislate properly in accordance with the accepted practice of all democratic parliaments. 
What a silent majority the Government has over there in the Australian Country Party. Why, there is not a cocky in the country at work at midnight but here they are being kept up. I charge the Minister, first, with not knowing what is in the Bill and, secondly, with wanting to hide his incompetence on this issue by putting it through at this time of the night. I make those few brief comments on clause 21 and remind the Minister that I feel reasonably energetic tonight. So long as he keeps this legislation going,I do not know who else is interested but there is one member here whom he is going to have to gag. 
Thursday, 23rd March 1972 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs, and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest " Your - petitionere most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Offices until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 

 X Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now  put. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to al] closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. We, the Citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia humbly pray that the Government of this Country will- 
Ban the shooting of kangaroos for commercial purposes. (No animal can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale as exists under present legislation). 
Ban the export of all kangaroo products from Australia. 
Prevent the extinction of the Red Kangaroo. (The Red Kangaroo has been reduced to a numerical level where its survival is in jeopardy). 
Institute a scientific survey of the kangaroo population. 
Establish large national parks of good quality land as major tourist attractions. 
Take control of and be completely responsible for the management of Australia's wildlife. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is is a fact that, due to the great increase in the number of unemployed, benefit payments have been delayed because of the failure to increase the staff of his Department to meet this crisis. 
If so, in order to avoid hardship and suffering to those concerned, will he investigate the position and, if necessary, arrange for the staff to be increased in order that benefit may be paid promptly as they fall due. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
is it a fact that a person convicted of a criminal offence, or one who has served a prison sentence or is on bond, is ineligible for training under the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service. 
If so, how many have applied and been rejected to date for these reasons. 
This is an election year. It is a year when the people look for leadership and national unity. Therefore tonight I speak more in sorrow than in anger as I look at the disintegration and fragmentation of the present Government of this country. It is with a certain sadness that 1 look at the break-up of this once great party - that famous phrase which is so often used against the party on this side of the House. As k ponder on what has happened I cannot help thinking, with great sadness, that the Father of the Year must be a troubled man at this stage because at home the family is arriving and in Canberra the family is leaving. I can see the situation developing from one end of Australia to the other. 
Where did this disintegration commence? In no other place than that lovely little island of Tasmania when one of the Lyons roared. We have heard them roar from this side of the Parliament, too. If I may say so,  Mr Lyons  commenced this disintegration. He said that he had resigned from the Ministry in Tasmania because to be successful a coalition must be based on mutual trust, understanding and confidence between the parties involved. He said that these conditions had long ceased to exist in Tasmania.  Mr Lyons  went on to say that the responsibility for the collapse of the coalition rested squarely on the shoulders of the Premier by virtue of his dictatorial attitude coupled with administrative incompetence. That is why the Tasmanian Government has been wrecked - incompetence by the Premier and Leader of the Liberal Party in that State and his dictatorial attitude. As  Mr Lyons  went on to say, a one-man band was ruling in Tasmania. 
Things have been happening so fast in the Liberal Party that I have hardly been able to keep up with the newspaper cuttings. As I have said,  Mr Lyons  said that the Tasmanian Government was a one-man band, and now that the Lyons have roared again, that Government may well disappear into political oblivion, as did a Labor government in this Parliament on a previous occasion when Lyons roared. A second minister resigned from the Tasmanian Government. The Premier adopted a remarkable attitude to that resignation. He said: That will show real unity in the ranks of the Liberal Party in Tasmania'. Those events in that little island started the disintegration of the once great Liberal Party. I repeat that the Premier of Tasmania said: 'We are united now in Tasmania' after the Government had been wrecked and one of its  ministers had resigned. The disintegration spread to South Australia. According to a newspaper article at the time, the Leader of the Liberal Country League in South Australia quit because the Party had lost its  idealism.  Mr Steele  Hall, a former Premier and the leader of the South Australian Liberals, is reported as having said: 
I cannot lead a party that will not follow. I cannot lead a party which has lost its idealism and which has forgotten that its purpose for existence is to successfully govern for the welfare of all South Australia. 
Hehas said plenty more since. In fact, he is responsible for the creation of a remarkable situation. He formed a party within a party. Have honourable members  ever heard of anything so funny? Laurel and Hardy would have made one of the  greatest comedies on earth out of the antics of the Liberals in South Australia. According to the 'Advertiser' the Liberals have side-stepped a split in the party in South Australia by forming a party within the party. I wonder what would have been said if that had happened on this side of the Parliament? The situation exists in South Australia where there is not only a party within a party but there are also 2 leaders, 2 lots of officers and 2 sets of candidates. Is it any wonder that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who is the  Deputy  Whip of the Government Parties here, is pondering and wondering tonight? He has more to worry about now than the wine excise. No body is drunk with power in South Australia. The party within a party will shortly be partying within a party right in the electorate of the honourable member for Angas. I do not often agree with the views of the Melbourne 'Herald', but it writes a bit of sense now and again. It says that the Liberals in South Australia are  facing disaster. Between you and me, -  Mr Speaker,  they have already had it. 
After these events had occurred the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  revealed in the Parliament a remarkable turn of phrase and showed his great ability. He said that the Government lacks teamwork and unity. I wonder how he found that out. Had he read the Tasmanian newspapers, the South Australian newspapers or the speeches of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)?  My, the honourable member for Moreton has come a long way from those days of 'Killen, you are magnificent'. How he has gone down the line. But what a remarkable discovery by the Treasurer that there is disunity in the ranks of the Liberal Party. Let us consider some of the things that have been said by members of this Parliament who seek to lead the nation in future years. The Sydney 'Daily Mirror' - sometimes the. newspapers are on the beam - carried the headlines: 'Killen lashes out in PM row'. 'I won't shut up'. I have heard him say certain things about the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  who had criticised him. There is talk in this place that the former Minister for the Navy and the present Minister for the Navy may ultimately fight a naval battle on Lake Burley Griffin. 
Another headline was 'Killen's bid for a party meeting'. But that bid was rejected One has to admire in some ways the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  He is not like the previous Prime Minister; he knows when he does not have the numbers. So he did not call a meeting. We still have, therefore, a temporary Prime Minister. Naturally he says no to the Liberal rebels. Why would he not do so? Anybody who goes into a secret ballot should remember that you never know what the result will be even when you know you have the numbers, let alone when you know that you do not. 
I think the honourable member for Moreton is like wine in that he is improving with age. Another recent newspaper article appeared under the heading: 'Exminister warns of Government defeat - plea for Gorton, Bury'. My heavens, with due respect to the honourable member for Moreton, fancy inflicting both of them on us again. No, that could not be done. Bad as he is, the present Prime Minister must offer better prospects than the people mentioned. 
Then the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  said the Liberals would be sure to lose the seat of Macarthur at the next election. He has already lost his party's pre-selection to contest it. lt that not a remarkable situation in a party that talks of unity and solidarity?  Mr Speaker,  1 admire the quietness with which you sit there tonight because I know that you too are threatened because of the misdemeanours of those that you preside over in this Parliament. You are one of the members who may well suffer from the things I have been talking about tonight. If that is not bad enough, we find that a Liberal club in Canberra has told all of its members to vote Labor at the next federal election. I knew that Labor's leader here had great powers of conversion, but I never though he would succeed in converting the Liberal Party to vote against the present administration. 
There is another newspaper article to which I wish to refer. It was written by a thinker, Robert Nestdale, in the Australian Liberal'. He anticipates a Government majority of at least 12 seats in the House of Representatives as a result of the next election. He goes on to say that  Mr Len  Bosman should recapture Australia's most marginal seat of St George and join his 23 other Government colleagues on the Government benches. I understand that he is the Press relations officer for the Minister for the Navy. That is the situation that exists in this Parliament today; The Country Party is not immune. For instance, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  who is the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry, was told in his electorate that he was not a suitable man, but the Liberals withdrew their candidate because  Mr King  could well be defeated. He has survived because he occupies one of those mysterious ghost-like positions of Assistant Minister. Nobody knows what they do, where they are, how they got there,' what they are paid or anything else. But the honourable member for Wimmera has survived. I suppose it is worth it to the Country Party. If you run through this long pattern,  Mr Speaker,  you will see the situation developing where the Government of the day is fragmented from one end of Australia to the other. Without the additional worries of BHP and Ansett it has plenty on its plate. It is not with any joy that I speak like this tonight. Thank 
God that we on this side of the Parliament have never experienced this kind of situation. Thank heavens that we have never faced what the Liberal Party and others are facing. I sympathise with them. I hope that in the interests of Australia they will be able to solve their problems. In the meantime let us the Australian people know the situation and know about the disunity in this once great party. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say in what countries and states a deposit is required from candidates seeking election to Parliament, and what is the amount of the deposit in each case. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say what countries use machine voting for Parliamentary elections. 
Has consideration been given to or investigation made into the introduction of this form of voting in Australia. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say what are the hours of polling and the day of die week on which national elections are held in Great Britain, the United States of America, New Zealand, France, Canada, Belgium, Holland, West Germany and Italy. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What procedure is adopted to check whether persons applying to have their names placed on the electoral roll are in fact qualified to do so? 
Is there any way to prevent an alien enrolling although ineligible? If so, what is it? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many candidates forfeited their deposits in : each of the last 5 (a) House of Representatives elections and (b) Senate elections, and what were the political affiliations of those concerned. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many casualties have been suffered by Australian Forces in the war in Vietnam. 
How many (a) have been killed, (b) were wounded, and (c) are missing. 
Of the casualties how many in each category were (a) members of the permanent Army, (b) members of the 'R.A.A.F., (c) members of tha R.A.N. and (d) national servicemen. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many persons are registered as unemployed at (a) Newtown and (b) Leichhardt employment offices. 
How many of these are (a) adult males, (b) adult females and (c) between the ages of 18-21 in each case. 
What was the number registered at each office at this time in 1971. 

 Mi Lynch - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The numbers of persons registered as unemployed at the Newtown and Leichhardt District Employment Offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service at end-February 1972 and end-February 1971 are shown below. Separate statistics of persons between the ages of 18-21 are not available. However statistics of persons under 21 are compiled and these are shown. 
It should be noted that job seekers in the metropolitan area do not necessarily seek or obtain employment in the district in which they live, with the result that the numbers registered in any metropolitan district employment office usually include some job seekers who reside beyond the area served by Mie district office. Furthermore, the areas served by a district office, and this is particularly true in the metropolitan area, are determined by the operational requirements of the Commonwealth Employment Service and do not necessarily correspond with electoral or municipal boundaries. Thus the area served by the Newtown district office covers, in addition to the Municipality of Newtown, the Municipality of Northcote and part of the Municipality of Marrickville; similarly the areas served by the Leichhardt district office cover, in addition to the Municipality of Leichhardt, the Municipalities of Ashfield and Drummoyne and part of the Municipality of Marrickville. Care should be taken therefore in interpreting these figures. 
I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in regard to certain comments made this morning by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth). 
In case nobody understood it from the comments of the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull),  we are discussing the States Grants Bill and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2). The new Knight of the realm has been correct for once. I did not intend to speak but his comments have prompted me to do so. I rise mainly to defend the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  against the bitter personal attack of the honourable member for Mallee. It would appear that he, as a member of the 
Australian Country Party, is dedicated in this Parliament to endeavouring to destroy the high reputation of the honourable member for Dawson who has a great knowledge of rural matters such as those covered in the legislation we are discussing. The honourable member for Mallee is a remarkable man. In dealing with this Bill he hardly touched upon it. He did deal, of course, with the one vote one value argument. I can understand his not wanting parity of electorates because he was elected on a minority vote of about 45 per cent of the electors. Everybody knows that Country Party seats have to be half as big as city seats because the members are only half as good. The fact of the matter is that they could not represent the same numbers as city members. Apart from that there are other factors. 
Let us look at the honourable member for Mallee. He is the gentleman who criticises the honourable member for Dawson; yet he has called the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  a messenger boy that nobody takes any notice of in Parliament. In addition the honourable member rarely concentrates on the great rural issues such as unemployment in the country and the issues involved in the legislation before us. We have heard him speak on the nesting habits of birds in his electorate from time to time. We have heard him speak on fish in the Murray from time to time. We have heard him speak on Patterson's curse, skeleton weed and things like that, but rarely on matters of great importance to country districts. Everybody knows that he was an auctioneer, and not a very good one, I understand. We know he made his living in the depression years by selling up those people who were turned out of their homes by Liberal-Country Party governments in the great rural districts of this Commonwealth. The records of this Parliament are littered with the names of men who walked off their farms because honourable members who sit in that corner of the Parliament would not provide markets or guarantee prices. These were left for the Australian Labor Party to provide when it came to office in 1943. 
The honourable member for Mallee always talks in this sanctimonious way of what he has done for the rural people. The fact of the matter is that the honourable member has been in this Parliament a long time. He has a long record but I would not say it was a distinguished record. However, somebody must have told  Her  Majesty that it was because he has subsequently been acknowledged accordingly.  His  only contribution, and the only contribution of other Country Party members in this Parliament, has been after 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government to introduce today a measure which will give the dole to people in country districts because of the failure of the policies the honourable member has espoused for the last 25 years in this Parliament. Written indelibly into the records of this Parliament is the record of the Country Party, which the honourable member supports, in the districts in which that Party has brought about unemployment and want not equalled since the days of the depression. That is why we are debating this legislation. If the honourable member is happy with that record, good luck to him. If he wants to go into political oblivion with that record behind him, he is not a difficult man to please; but I would have thought that he might well have been more proud had he thought that the country was flourishing, everybody was working and there was no necessity for the legislation which we are discussing today. 
I felt that I should rise to put the record straight, for the simple reason that quite often the honourable member in particular misleads the people of this country with respect to his personal representation and that of the Country Party. Why, the voice of the countryman was stilled in this Parliament until the honourable member for Dawson, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and other honourable members on this side rose in their places and exposed the falsity of the policies of those who sit on the other side of this House. That is why today when we discuss these matters we find this false approach by the honourable member. I was interested in his one-vote one-value theory. The Country Party has 2 senses of value. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope&gt;Order! I ask the honourable gentleman to confine his remarks to the Bills. 

It is just a passing reference. When it came to voting for the wool bounty, or whatever we once had, a man with one bale, of wool had the same voting power as a man with 100 bales of wool. It is a mattter of one method for that purpose but another for the electorate. But these are matters about which the honourable member does not speak with any great knowledge. He prides himself on not reading his speeches in this Parliament. Do not honourable members agree that his speeches would be better if he did read them? Would not they be better understood? Would not there be more knowledge in them? Would not there be some substance in them? I think the honourable member could read his speeches. There are some who say that he could not, but the fact of the matter is that this is not done. I suggest to the honourable member that, before he criticises the Labor Party on the issues covered in these Bills and before he criticises the policy that has been espoused by the honourable member for Dawson, the honourable member for Riverina and other honourable members on this side of the House, he should look at the sorry and damning record of the Country Party. 
I repeat that it was not until a Labor government was elected in 1943 that the primary producer held his head high and marched through this country in the full knowledge that he had guaranteed markets and guaranteed prices for his products and, instead of owing banks money, was able to have credit and the wherewithal to keep body and soul together in a way that brought him responsibility. All that has gone under Liberal-Country Party rule. How the honourable member for Mallee is proudly leaving the Parliament with that record behind him is something that I find difficult to understand. 
Having said so much, let me say that we on this side of the House welcome the provisions of this legislation. We regret the necessity for the legislation but we indicate to the people that this is more than ever a reason why they should vote for Labor candidates in the forthcoming election and destroy those who, under the guise of representing the country people, misrepresent them in this Parliament. I do not know, but I suppose there is a farmer or two amongst them. If I were to run through a list of them I think it would be difficult to find a primary producer in the ranks of the Country Party. It would be difficult to find anybody who was closely allied to a primary producer. The real representatives of the country people in this Parliament are those who sit on the Labor benches. 
Anyhow, I did not rise to speak at great length. I feel that the House will appreciate that I have risen only to put the record straight in respect of the honourable member for Mallee. I am one, strange as it may seem, who is somewhat sensitive, and I resent the bitter personal attacks that the honourable member always makes under the guise of goodwill, particularly on that outstanding Minister in the next Labor government, the honourable member for Dawson. Honourable members opposite should remember that the honourable member for Dawson is related to a Country Party member. That is no fault of his. You cannot help whom you pick up as a relation by marriage. But he is related to a Country Party member. That fact in itself ought to mean that some courtesy is extended to him. I just say to the new Knight that I hope that he acts with more propriety in the other circles in which he moves with the new glamour that will go with his title. In the Parliament it is not good for a Knight of the realm to be personal and to say the things that the honourable member says about members on this side of the House, because we are sensitive and understanding. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Bearing in mind what you have said,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will proceed with my speech. I have no doubt that if I transgress the broad principles involved in this matter you will give me guidance. As the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has said, recommendations Nos 1 to 6 deal with the Standing Orders as they relate to the functions of Assistant Ministers.  (Quorum formed)  This report provides for amendments to the Standing Orders to cover the functions of the recently appointed Assistant Ministers. At this stage I indicate that I intend to vote against each of these recommendations for one reason if no other, and that is that the Government has not given this Parliament any information regarding the activities, expenses or functions of Assistant Ministers. I believe that the incorporation of amendments in Standing Orders to cover the functions and activities of personnel in this Parliament for whom the Government will give no explanation is something which should be opposed. I point out that if the Assistant Ministers are to be accepted, and if they are to carry out certain functions in this Parliament, then possibly the Standing Orders will have to be amended, but before these Standing Orders are amended and the whole function of Parliament changed, I ask: Is not this Parliament entitled to some information about the activities of these people? On 24th February 1972 1 placed question No. 5081. on the notice paper. This is what I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon). 
What facilities, travelling expenses, staff, stamp allowance, telephones and other amenities have been provided to each Assistant Minister. 
What sum in travelling allowance has been paid to each Assistant Minister to date. 
On the same date I asked question No. 5082. It stated: 
What accommodation has been provided for each Assistant Minister in (a) Canberra and (b) each State. 
What is the location and telephone number of each office.  1 followed those questions with question No. 5396. I repeat the question for the benefit of the House. I asked the Prime Minister: 
Is it a fact that he is anxious to avoid providing the information I sought concerning allowances to Assistant Ministers in questions Nos S081 and S082 which were placed on the Notice Paper on 24th February 1972; if not. will he provide the information without further delay. 
I believe that the Prime Minister is covering up in regard to the activities of Assistant Ministers. To date, after a period of almost 2 months, we are unable to obtain any information concerning the allowances, facilities, privileges, staff, amenities and offices are available to them. Yet tonight in this Parliament we are asked to endorse proposals to amend the Standing Orders. The Australian Labor Party opposed the proposal to appoint Assistant Ministers in this Parliament. Now, for some reason or other, we can obtain no information about their activities. By way of passing reference I say that most honourable members know that Assistant Ministers were appointed not to assist the welfare and development of this Parliament but to give the Prime Minister the numbers in an evenly divided caucus; of the Liberal Party. I object to the Standing Orders being amended in order to provide the Prime Minister with security from attack from the rebels in the ranks of the Liberal Party at the expense of the public. The Prime Minister refuses to reveal details of the activities of Assistant Ministers. The situation is that they are the silent brigade. Very few of them have spoken in Parliament since they were appointed; in other words they were struck speechless by their appointment. Very few of them ask questions. We do not know where their offices are situated. We do not know who comprise their staff, what amenities or expenses they have or what they do. Yet today Parliament is asked to amend the Standing Orders in order to provide approaches in this Parliament to cover the activities of Assistant Ministers. The first recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee states: 
That Assistant Ministers should not be allocated seats on the Ministerial Bench, but they should be seated at the table when they are in charge of debates on  legislation  or other matters. 
It is news to me that they are ever going to be in charge of legislation. To date nobody knows what their functions are. The recommendation continues: 
That motions or amendments moved by :m Assistant Minister need not be seconded. 
I have yet to be convinced that the Assistant Ministers have any constitutional power in this Parliament at all. A former  Speaker  of this Parliament, the long since deceased Archie Cameron, refused to recognise Assistant Ministers because he said that constitutionally they had no rights whatever in this Parliament. If this is the case under what circumstance should we condone the amendment to Standing Orders? The report of the Committee goes on to state: 
That an Assistant Minister should be entitled to take charge of a Bill in committee of the whole House and, following the committee stages, be entitled to more formally for the adoption of the report and the third reading. . . . 
The report goes on in recommendations 2 to 6 to deal with the time limits for debates and associated matters. If Assistant Ministers and their functions had been clearly explained to this Parliament, if we were convinced that they were constitutionally acceptable and right in this Parliament and if we could obtain from the Prime Minister information regarding their activities, expenses, staffs and where they are located, I believe a case might be made out to accept them. But since 24th February the Prime Minister has refused to tell us what they dc. I say that he has something to hide. Public money is being spent on their activities but nobody knows for what purpose. That being the case, why should we amend Standing Orders? This would give the imprimatur to their appointment. It would indicate an acceptance of their activities. 
What does the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  do as Assistant Minister? I do not think he has made a speech. Has anybody ever heard him make one? The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  has been as silent as the grave since he was appointed. If honourable members check Hansard they will find that very few Assistant Ministers have made a speech. Very few of them have asked a question. Nobody can find them. They must be sharing rooms with other honourable members and must be Assistant Ministers in name only. It is a colossal joke. 
The fact of the matter is that even before they were appointed we had never heard of them. Yet now we are expected to accept them with all the dignity and decorum which results from their appointment having caused an amendment to Standing Orders. My suggestion to the Parliament is that until such time as the Prime Minister comes clean on this issue we should oppose the proposals which have been put forward. When all is said and done a very important principle is involved. If these honourable members are challenged in the High Court they might well have their seats declared vacant because they have accepted offices of profit under the Crown. This situation has never been challenged. Someone may well do it because there is no constitutional position in this Parliament which allows for the appointment of Assistant Ministers. Our Parliament is totally different from other Parliaments of the world. I suggest to honourable members opposite that they read the speeches made in days gone by when this matter was debated and when the late Archie Cameron clearly outlined to the former Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies,  the reason why the appointment of Assistant Ministers could not be accepted in Australia as being constitutionally correct. 
I do not know what the position might be in relation to some of these Assistant Ministers, but what is the good of having them? When a recent Cabinet vacancy occurred, with 6 or 7 Assistant Ministers ready to take their place among the ranks of the doomed in the Liberal Party Ministry opposite none of the 6 selected as Assistant Ministers was appointed. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who was not good enough to be an Assistant Minister was good enough to be a Minister and he was appointed. The Minister for National Development is one of the few survivors of the Menzies regime. After 12 or 14 years as an Assistant Minister he was accepted into the ranks of Ministers. No Assistant Minister, except the Minister for National Development who is sitting at the table, has ever been appointed to anything other than an assistant ministership. 
Are we to amend the Standing Orders to provide for this situation?  Mr Hamilton,  a former member of the Country Party, after 10 or 11 years as an Assistant Minister resigned from the Parliament in disgust.  Mr Jack  Howse, a former member for Calare, was appointed an Assistant Minister and resigned in disgust because he could go no further. The former honourable member for Franklin,  Mr Falkinder,  an able man if ever there was one, could do no better than Assistant Minister so he resigned. 
Joe Gullett was another. He was not even appointed as an Assistant Minister because he had enough sense not to accept such a position. The Minister for National Development survived because he is one of those long-standing, determined types. He can wait. I have been told that if a person waits long enough everything comes. The situation today is that we are being asked to amend the Standing Orders to provide for a half a dozen Assistant Ministers who, even if appointed now, could not last until next Christmas because after that time they will not be seen here again. Yet we are asked to support this amendment of the Standing Orders. 
I suggest that this motion be opposed. 1 summarise my reasons. Firstly we should do nothing until the Prime Minister tells the Parliament what these Assistant Ministers are costing the nation. Why should they be permitted to travel in official motor cars, receiving lavish travelling expenses and all that goes with the position? We do not know what they are doing. I have ascertained that one of them is sharing an office with the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  What an hilarious two they would be together. I have asked where these Assistant Ministers can be found. If I want to see the honourable member for Boothby in his capacity as Assistant Minister, where do I go? What I must do is wait until I can catch him in a passage of this building otherwise I must share my secrets with the other 2 honourable members with whom he shares accommodation. This situation is making a farce of the Parliament. We are asked to amend the Standing Orders to provide for people whose activities are clouded in secrecy. They are ghostlike figures, seldom seen, except when the Prime Minister wants their vote in the Party room and then up go the hands. The Prime Minister's appointees, at the expense of the Australian taxpayers, give him the numbers to defeat the rebels in his Party. For my. part I am opposed to this motion and intend to vote against it. I have outlined the constitutional and practical reasons why this proposal should not be adopted and 1 hope that the House will not support the motion. 
-] want to say only a few words about the amendment moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  With other members of the Parliament I welcome changes that have already been proposed in the Standing Orders relating to the presenting of petitions because I believe it is an overdue reform, and I can see no reason why, having gone so far, those who drew up the Standing Orders should not accept the very commendable amendment moved by the honourable member for Corio. With other members of the Parliament 1 have been concerned at the growth of petitions presented. T wish to make particular reference to certain insinuations that were made, in the best of spirits no doubt, by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  and the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  in regard to 1947, the time of the Labor Government. 
The history of petitions is very interesting in that when the Liberal Party is in government its supporters generally do not present them. I say that for the simple reason that between 19 J 1 and 1940, according to the document we have here - a period of 30 years - 94 petitions were presented, or an average of 3 per annum under Tory governments, with the exception probably of a couple of years in that time. Then we find that between 1951 and 1969, a period of 19 years, 642 petitions were presented, or 48 per annum. In 1970 and 1971, 1,217 petitions were presented, an average of 608 per annum, which shows the growth of petitions. I am particularly interested in 1947. Everybody knows that in 1947 highly paid executives of the private banks and the Liberal Party went the length and breadth of Australia and were paid per signature to collect signatures against the bank nationalisation proposals. 
The honourable member for Mallee said that people will sign anything, and that is why be does not present petitions. But even he was roused from his reverie by the agents of the private banks at that time. I am advised today that the honourable member for Mallee presented one petition to Parliament from the electors of his constituency of Wimmera, as it then was, on 3rd October 1947, and the subject of the petition was the bank nationalisation that had been proposed. In other words, the roaring lion in opposition is very tame on the government benches. Although the honourable member said that anybody will sign a petition, he was prepared to present one at that time, not knowing who signed it, in an endeavour to wreck the Labor Government. 
As I understand it, the presentation of petitions is one of the longest and best established practices in a democracy. As the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  mentioned earlier, if you go back as far as democratic history goes, you will find that this has been the right of the electors. Consequently, today when we are reforming the Standing Orders, is it not only reasonable and fair that some action be taken once petitions are presented to Parliament? Even though the honourable member for Mallee might think anybody will sign a petition, they will not. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was dealing with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Corio to the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee dealing with petitions. As many of the many thousands of persons who were listening to me before the suspension of the sitting might not have heard the actual text of the amendment, J will read it. The honourable member's amendment states: 
That the following words be added to the question: "subject to proposed standing order No. 132 being amended by adding the words 
The Minister shall, within twenty-one sitting days of the presentation of a petition or the presentation of the first petition of a series of petitions, notify the House what acion has been taken with respect to the petition'.". 
I repeat that I cannot see that the adoption of this amendment would do anything but improve the very desirable amendments with respect to petitions which are to be incorporated in the Standing Orders. 
Petitions are most effective in many respects. People go to great trouble to present them - that is, people apart from those who are paid to do so sometimes such as when the Liberals paid certain people to sign petitions in relation to the 1947 banking legislation. But normally petitions are presented on a wide variety of matters. Perhaps I might make passing reference to the subjects on which petitions have been presented in order to show the power of the petition. I instance the legislation that will shortly be debated in this Parliament regarding the portability of pensions.  Dr Constanzo  of 'La Fiamma', the Italian newspaper, collected 75,000 names on a petition. He did not present the petition to the Parliament. He presented it to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay).  It nearly frightened the life out of them and they brought in the legislation almost overnight. That example shows the power of petitioning. So it is with respect to Parliament. Although petitions presented to Parliament may sometimes be taken not so much flippantly but as something to be discarded they can be very effective. 
I notice for instance, that petitions cover a wide variety of things. In the autumn sittings petitions were presented dealing mainly with kangaroos, education, pensions, censorship, aid to India, contraceptives and Lake Pedder. It is interesting to see that contraceptives head Lake Pedder off by 7 petitions. But the fact of the matter is that a wide variety of subjects are covered by petitions. What is wrong with knowing what happens to petitions once they are presented? Surely one of the Assistant Ministers could tell us where the petitions end up. Surely someone on the Government side could say what happens to them. If we do not receive a report on what has happened to the petitions the amendment to the Standing Orders would be only a new process implementing the old methods. The purpose of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Corio is to show the importance of petitions. 
In a debate on the Standing Orders Committee's report it is worth studying the details associated with petitions down through the years. Petitions have been important from Federation. For instance, in 1901 alone, 224 petitions were presented. So the power of the petition was recognised as long ago as that. The power of the petition is recognised in the House of Commons and in all democratic parliaments. Therefore, it is most desirable that we should do everything we can to improve the handling of petitions. 
I hope that the House will see fit to support the amendment. Might I ask Government supporters to vote on the amendment in a non-party way. I echo today my regret, more in sorrow than in anger, that non-party votes in this Parliament inevitably find every Liberal voting on the party line. They do so practically without exception. It will be an historic day - even on a vote concerning Standing Orders - when one Liberal sees fit to support commendable amendments in respect of things that are important to all democracies, particularly to this Parliament. Why should the honourable member for North Sydney for instance not vote for the amendment? Tonight he gave forth in respect of petitions presented in relation to the 1947 banking legislation. He forgot to mention that 93 petitions were presented at that time, and the Labor Government duly considered them, and gave all the consideration necessary to them. But in accordance with our policy naturally we proceeded with the legislation, but tonight I ask Government supporters to see whether they cannot vote with the Opposition on some of the proposals in these amendments. 
It is a waste of time having non-party votes if supporters of the Liberal Party, despite their independence that we are told about are to be regimented, even on simple things like the Standing Orders of the Parliament. Here is a chance in an election year for the honourable member for North Sydney to be a real statesman, to vote without fear of expulsion and to cross the floor and vote on the important things and the really emotional issues of the Standing Orders. What an effect that would have in his electorate if he could see fit to act in this way! He will be welcome on this side of the Parliament for the simple reason that no other supporter of the Government has seen fit to support us in these proposals. 
I finish on that note, expressing in a non-party way my request for support for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Corio, and so ably supported by members on this side of the Parliament. Might our new silent knight from Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  see fit on one occasion to cast a very intelligent vote for something put up by the Labor Party. 
1 want to say a few words in support of the excellent amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  If the previous amendment had been carried, it would have added substance to the presentation of the report and would have offered an opportunity for effective action to be taken and would have given some hope of getting a decision when petitions were presented. I am concerned, together with other members on this side of the House - despite the speech of my friend the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  - with the remarkable fact that on non-political issues everything that is moved by the Labor Party is unanimously opposed by members of the Liberal and Country parties. I am charitable enough to think that they are to be forgiven because the only things they agree on in the country today are the Standing Orders and the Opposition. I cannot think of any other reason. 
It may be remarkable, but I would like to see Liberal and Country Party members vote on non-party lines on issues that concern democracy in this country. The situation is, though, that it is more than remarkable that rarely if ever does a member of the Government parties cross the floor to vote for anything moved by a member on this side of the House. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has on occasions voted differently from his Party, but I think we have still to get one recruit from the Government side for a motion moved by us. After all is said and done, when the votes are being taken we might just as well make the matter a party issue because there is no hope at all of getting any support from the Government side of the House. 
I hope that Parliament will endorse the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina. I hope to see the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  with us on this. He mentioned, not as anything to do with the Standing Orders, that he would vote this way to safeguard the nation against a Labor administration. For once he is right, for the wrong reason. The only solace I take from it is that he is expecting that this time next year he will be on this side of the House and we will be on his side of the House. At least there is one member of the Government with farsightedness. But it is not that far; it is only 6 months ahead that he is looking. Consequently, tonight I hope to see him with us, and that will be the first break in the ranks of the Governmet in a non-party vote. I ask honourable members to support the amendment. 

 Sir WINTON TURNBULL (Mallee)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 I would like to bring to the attention of the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  the fact that this amendment seeks to amend standing order 28. It is only a technical and very minor amendment but, for the benefit of the honourable member for Mallee, I would like to say that standing order 28 states: 
A Publications Committee, to consist of 7 members, shall be appointed at the commencement of each Parliament . . . and shall have power to confer with a similar Committee of the Senate. 
It then goes on to give the Committee's functions. As the honourable member for Mallee objected to 7 members being appointed and voted against the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  a moment ago, would he tell the House now whether he seeks to have standing order 28 deleted from the Standing Orders because the number 7 has been selected and would he now issue in the Parliament a few words of repentance for having ridiculed the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina which was similar to the amendment now before the House in relation to the Publications Committee? 

 Sir WINTON TURNBULL (Mallee (10.20)  -  I appreciate the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  being so kind as to draw my attention to this matter. I am only too pleased to accommodate the honourable member. I did not object to 
In the last 20 years the word 'Mallee', when expressed as the name of the electorate of Mallee, has been mentioned in this Parliament far more than any other electorate. It has been mentioned chiefly by the honourable member for Grayndler. Therefore he has given me, as the representative of the Mallee electorate, a great advertisement throughout the country. I appreciate him doing this and thank him for it. But even if I were to disregard the number of times on which the honourable member has said 'Mallee* I would still say that in the last 20 years the Mallee electorate has been mentioned more in this Parliament than has any other electorate. So the honourable member for Grayndler is appreciated for giving me the opportunity to refer to my electorate. I say to him: Thank you very much. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to speak briefly on this matter. The present Government is pretty free and easy with titles as can be seen from the title of the 
Members - Use of academic and other titles, where appropriate, in House documents. 
That a Member entitled to use the title 'Doctor' or 'Reverend' or having a substantive military, academic or professional title should, if be so wishes, have the title used with his name as it appears from time to time in official House documents such as the Votes and Proceedings, Notice Papers, List of Members, etc. (Paragraphs 42 to 46). 
Where does this title business start  pad  finish in parliamentary records? ls a soldier entitled to put his name in as 'Private Smith'? How does die Government intend to stop a person from doing that? Is a person entitled to do that? If a brigadier can do it why should not Private Smith be able to do it? Can Corporal Jones have his name entitled 'corporal'? What about a leading aircraftsman or an able seaman? Will they be entitled to use their titles? ls this to be allowed? Or is it to be only for the upper strata, the top brass? Where do we start and finish? Perhaps the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who is sitting at the table can explain this to us. He is knowledgeable man and a distinguished man and no doubt he will come amongst these titled people. I would like to know just where this starts and finishes. A chap who is a private in the Army might with very great pride look back on that title and record of achievements in that respect, but evidencely because he is not from the upper strata of the military Service or the top brass he cannot use that humble though no doubt to him very distinguished title. 
I think that the Government, by incorporating this recommendation in the Standing Orders, is only perpetuating many of those fortunate records of people who have been honoured with a title by the present Government. I would like the Minister to tell us where the question of title starts and where it finishes. Who will be entitled to use titles? Will it apply to all branches of the Services? Will it apply to everybody? For how long is a person a reverend gentleman? ls he a reverend gentleman when he leaves the ministry and goes into Parliament? Does his title go with him forever? This is a matter which ought to be clarified for the Parliament because it can be very confusing. As I look across the floor of this Parliament I recall that one of my colleagues once said: 'In Canberra now there are almost more knights than days'. It is a city as he once described it, of dreadful knights. The situation is confusing. No doubt persons with titles will have to be listed in parliamentary records as  'Sir', 'Lord'  or whatever the case may be, but where does it start and where does it finish with those minor titles of persons who if this proposal is accepted proudly might still desire to have them placed among the records. 
Very briefly, I wish to support the amendment to the amendment which was moved by the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and which I seconded. Politics makes strange bedfellows, and tonight, even at this early hour of 10 o'clock, I see that I am in the distinguished company of the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  - and that, in itself, is a historic occasion - and also of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I accept their support on this occasion with great pleasure. Rarely have I known 2 men to exhibit such intelligence as they have on this occasion by indicating that they will vote on a non-party matter in a non-party way. I congratulate the honourable member for Mallee and the honourable member for Griffith for giving an inspiring example to members on the Government side to adopt a non-party approach to a great national issue - the Standing Orders of this House. 
I say quite humbly that I suppose that I am more qualified to speak on the question of late sitting hours than probably any other member in this chamber because I have been a member of this Parliament for 29 years. When I first came here I was young and exuberant with a head of flowing black hair, and honourable members can see what late sitting hours in this Parliament have done to me. They can see the lines on my face and the lack of the strands of hair on the top of my head which give a youthful appearance. I attribute it, probably more than anything else, to the many long and tedious hours which I have spent in this Parliament. When dealing with the question of late sitting hours, I can well remember what the late James Scullin, a former Prime Minister of Australia, said to me. He said that when he first entered this Parliament as a comparatively young man he excelled during the all-night sittings; he loved being here all night; he loved nothing better than to debate a matter in the early hours of the morning. But during the years after he became Prime Minister his health failed badly and he said that looking back he believed it was due to the endless hours spent in all-night sittings during the troublesome years of the depression. Let no-one here underestimate the fact that to sit up all night at any age is a very difficult and tedious proposition. 
When we consider that no back bench member of this Parliament receives more than a senior flight steward employed by Qantas Airways Ltd, we can see that we are not being paid exorbitant rates for sitting here in the middle of the night. Apart from the effect on our health, we are working for rates of pay which people in private industry, employed in a 9 to 5 job, would not accept. The honourable member for Griffith quite rightly asked: 'Have you ever looked around this House in the early hours of the morning?' To all the people in the galleries and to other people in this chamber Liberals look a fearful sight in the day time. One can imagine what they look like in the middle of the night or at 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning. It is a dreadful experience to look at them. Probably that applies to all of us because even a good looking lady cannot look her best in the early hours of the morning unless she is given plenty of notice so that she can beautify herself. How do you think members in this House look in the early hours of the morning? 
The fact is that I have seen legislation passed through this chamber, appropriating money at the rate of a couple of million dollars a minute, while members are half asleep. The members of the Ministry do not know whether they are Arthur or Martha - not that they know that in the day time. It is wrong in a democratic country to think that we can legislate on the great issues in this nation, appropriate millions of dollars and at the same time be intelligent and awake in the early hours of the morning. Consider the honourable member for Mallee. It is very difficult to listen to him at  10  o'clock in the morning, imagine listening to him at  3  o'clock in the morning - and I do not say that in any disrespectful or uncharitable way. Probably it applies to me as much as to anybody else, but the honourable member for Mallee is a striking example. The point I make is that legislation by exhaustion becomes a farce. 
I often wonder what visitors who come into this Parliament at  3  o'clock in the morning must think of their legislators sitting here half asleep with pillows all round them: with some members of the Ministry awake and some asleep; and with the  Speaker  of the House trying to stay awake. The Hansard staff have to work industriously, trying to take down what we say, but knowing full well that we are working them under conditions and for rates of pay which very few unions in any section of industry would accept. It is a real farce to expect the national Parliament to continue to operate in this way. Some honourable members have recounted what we did  25  or  30  years ago. A lot of things were done then, but we cannot apply what happened then to the position today. In an advanced age when we are looking for all the benefits which come from automation, why should not this Parliament sit reasonable hours? Personally, I can see no reason why it should not sit only in the day time. I see no reason why it should not start early on Monday morning and finish at perhaps  6  o'clock at night. 
Earlier I think the honourable member for Perth mentioned that we would lose so much time if we sat until only  10  o'clock at night. The fact of the matter is that we take up a lot of time with meal breaks. If we sat from, say,  9  o'clock in the morning to  6  o'clock at night with probably an hour or an hour and half for lunch, we would find that we would do just as well as we do when we sit from  10.30  in the morning to midnight. These are the matters which honourable members should consider. I support the view expressed by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  regarding the proposal for the House to adjourn at  11  o'clock on Tuesday night, with no adjournment debate. I do not think that we could write such a provision into the Standing Orders, but surely it could be done, as it is now, under a gentleman's agreement. After Tuesday night why should not the House adjourn at  10.30  each night, as the honourable member for Macquarie has suggested? There should be plenty of time available for the routine business of the House to be concluded by  10.30  at night. I think that the House should adjourn not later than midnight, which is still  6  hours later than the time at which I think it should adjourn, because I think that we should only be a day-time Parliament. When all is said and done, I think that a lot of people in Australia, unless they listen to the radio, would not know that we sat after  6  o'clock at night. I think it is completely wrong to think that we can intelligently follow a pattern of thought and give effect to important legislation at all hours of the night. 
Some members of the Government will say; 'But we have to sit late because only in that way can we finish the session'. Therefore, we get legislation by exhaustion. I do not subscribe to their view at all. Every piece of legislation that comes before this Parliament is of tremendous importance and should be deliberated when men are intelligent, awake and able to give of their best in respect of debating, concentrating and analysing what is taking place. To expect them to do that at aU hours of the day and night is expecting the impossible. 
Having told the Minister for Customs and Excise that I would speak for only a few minutes on this question let me again express my support for the proposal that the House should rise at  10.30  p.m. Personally I would have been prepared to support it rising at  10  o'clock. If members of the Ministry cannot at present carry out their work between  10.30  on a Thursday night and when the Parliament resumes the next week it is up to them to find ways and means of doing so. The House could probably sit extra days. Some honourable members suggest that the House should sit 4 days a week, others 5 days a week. However I believe that there are ways which would enable us to deliberate and give effect to the legislation that is brought before us without our sitting late at night. 
The honourable member for North Sydney, who is interjecting, suggested that this matter should be dealt with in a non-political way. That is always my approach to problems of this nature. I do not know why the honourable member for North Sydney is worried because he is rarely here at this hour of the night so it would not matter to him whether the Parliament adjourned late or early. The honourable member who urges that this matter should be considered non-politically, and claims that he approaches it on that basis, has not voted with us on these non-Party issues except on one occasion last night and then only for the purpose, be said, of protecting the people against a Labor administration. That was hardly a nonpolitical approach. I support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Macquarie. I hope that it will be carried. I think that it will aid the deliberations of this Parliament and lead to better legislation generally. 
Paragraph (c) of the motion states: 
That the amendments of the standing orders and changes of practice adopted by this resolution be effective from and including the next sitting. 
I move the following amendment: 
That paragraph (c) be amended by omitting from and including the next sitting' and inserting 'when the constitutional position of Assistant Ministers has been determined'. 
The amendment hinges on the question of the constitutional position of the Assistant Ministers in this Parliament. On 4th May 1971, on behalf of the Opposition, in a debate on a ministerial statement concerning the appointment of Assistant Ministers, I moved the following amendment: 
That the following words be added to the motion: 'and expresses its disapproval of the decision to appoint Assistant Ministers'. 
The Opposition believes that there are real grounds for believing that the appointment of Assistant Ministers in this Parliament is unconstitutional and that, until such time as that has been resolved, there is no reason why the Standing Orders of this Parliament should be altered to meet the contingencies of their appointment. I go back to 19S2 when Under-Secretaries were appointed by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable R. G. Menzies. At that time the question of their constitutional position was questioned on this side of the Parliament. While they were at that stage termed UnderSecretaries they were to all intents and purposes to perform the same functions as those in this Parliament who have now been designated Assistant Ministers. The then  Speaker  of the Parliament,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - and a member of your own Party,  Mr Lucock  - a memorable and remarkable  Speaker  in every way, a very intelligent  Speaker  and a  Speaker  with great foresight and great respect in the community, the late A. G. Cameron, held that the position of the Under-Secretaries, who were the equivalent of the Assistant Ministers in this Parliament, was unconstitutional and he refused to give them even a chair in Parliament House. He would not give them a room to occupy. The present Minister for National Development and Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  was refused an appointment in this Parliament by the then  Speaker  because he was occupying an office of profit under the Crown. I wish to quote what the late A. G. Cameron had to say on 27th May 1952 in substantiating his view that the appointment of Under-Secretaries was unconstitutional. He said: 
Any honourable member who cares to do so, may read in May's 'Parliamentary Practice' that certain members of the House of Commons were debarred, in 1943, from sitting in the House because they had accepted certain offices under the Crown and that certain other members were so debarred in 1950. Honourable members will also find much relevant information in the report of a committee of the House of Commons which in 1941, was charged with the duty of discovering the state of the law with regard to the holding of offices and places of profit under the Crown. The report of the committee contains some strong statements, and die point is made that it does not matter whether a member receives money or not. The test is whether he holds office, because a man may profit from the holding of office under the Crown without receiving money. In the authorities to which I have referred, case after case is discussed very fully, and opinions are expressed very distinctly. It is shown that several eminent parliamentarians, including Lord Palmerston, were disqualified from holding seats because they had accepted office under the Crown although no fee or emolument was attached lo those offices. 
That strong statement was made by the then Speaker in support of his contention that those offices were unconstitutional and in fact could be offices of profit under the Crown. That statement has never been refuted by any court in this country. At this stage we face the position where members of the Government Parties have been appointed Assistant Ministers and arc receiving certain expenses. The statement by the then Speaker made reference to the fact that they need not receive a salary or emolument, but members of this Parliament have been appointed and are receiving we know not what. The Government will not reveal what cars are made available to them, what staff they have, what allowances they get and what they do or anything associated with them. Without doing them any discredit, I am pretty certain that they would not be travelling around Australia for nothing. 
The fact of the matter is they are receiving emoluments from this Parliament but  the Government will not reveal any information about them. On 24th February I asked what they were getting, what they were doing, where they were located. No answer has ever been given to me. 1 followed that up with a further question on 29th March in which I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  whether he wanted to hide that information and, if so, whether that was the reason why he was not giving it. He has not yet answered that question. The fact of the matter is the Prime Minister must doubt the constitutional position of the Assistant Ministers. The situation is if a challenge were to be made in the highest court of this country their positions may well bc declared vacant because until such time as the courts of this land declare that they are constitutionally appointed and that they are not occupying offices of profit under the Crown there is no reason why the Standing Orders of this Parliament should be implemented or altered to suit them. 
Why will the Government of the day, if it has nothing to hide in relation to these Assistant Ministers, not say to the High Court of Australia: "This is the situation. Give us a legal interpretation. Let us know whether they are occupying offices of profit under the Crown so that everybody in the Parliament and in the nation will be clear about the situation'? But for some hidden and sinister reason the Government has refused to do so. Why has it refused? Because it knows that there is an element of doubt and that 6 members of this Parliament may well face the unfortunate position of elimination from the Parliament by having their seats declared vacant. That could happen if some elector decided to take this matter to the courts and challenge whether they have been constitutionally appointed. The point I make is that: It is not only right but also just and proper that persons exercising executive authority in this country should do so constitutionally. If the Government believes that is the case it should not hestitate to take the matter up with the constitutional authority. What would be more simple than for the Government to put to the Justices of the High Court submissions in respect to the activities these members are carrying out and the emoluments, expenses and allowances, if any, they receive and let the court decide whether they have been constitutionally appointed. Here we have the situation - under a government which is drunk with power, which is bereft of any ideas and which is on its way out - saying: We want the Standing Orders to be changed because these Assistant Ministers have been appointed. We are not worried about whether they have been constitutionally appointed or not'. The situation is that the Opposition is worried. 
I go back a few years now to when the present Leader of the House was refused by one of the most eminent Speakers of this Parliament any right whatsoever within the precincts of the Parliament as an UnderSecretary or Assistant Minister, whatever you may call him, because that  Speaker  said that he had no constitutional right to be here. The late A. G. Cameron was a man of great and high reputation. He was a man who insisted on the Government that appointed him fulfilling to the letter the constitutional requirements of the law. Evidently - with due respect,  Mr Deputy  Speaker-the standard has slipped a lot. In this day and age anything goes with the Government so long as it has the numbers. 
The fact of the matter is it is common knowledge that the Government is not worried about whether the Assistant Ministers have been constitutionally appointed but that all it is worried about is that they will put up their hands in the right way in the cacaus of the Party room whenever the Prime Minister is in the constant trouble that he cannot get himself out of. 
The world knows that the Assistant Ministers were appointed not on ability. One has only to look at them to see that. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey),  the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  are all more intelligent than the member of the Country Party from Cowper who has been appointed an Assistant Minister. Those men would not take the position. They knew it was unconstitutional. They know full well the doubt that exists in the minds of the members of the Country Party that their colleague's seat may well be declared vacant. I know that the other members of the Country Party would not want to lose their seats or have them declared vacant and that they were not prepared to take the risk of that happening, despite their great ability. The same thing applies to the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley),  who is smiling at me, and others. They have a lot more ability than those honourable members who have been appointed Assistant Ministers. The Prime Minister picked out the ones who, firstly, he knew would vote for him and, secondly, would take the risk for a bit of prestige on somebody challenging their positions in the courts. Consequently, this is the position for which the Standing Orders are being amended. If all is above board and clear, what is wrong with the government of the day stating a case to the court? This would clear up the constitutional position. 
Does any member of this Parliament, particularly members of the Country Party, believe that an eminent Speaker like the late A. G. Cameron would deny facilities in this Parliament to an Assistant Minister or Under-Secretary, saying that he was unconstitutionally appointed unless he firmly believed that this was so? Does any member believe that a man appointed to the exalted position of Speaker of this 
Parliament would go so far as to refuse facilities to persons in this capacity if he thought there was not some constitutional doubt? That being the case, why in this generation should the high standard of integrity set at that time be passed over? Why should Lord Palmerstan's advice be disregarded by the government of the day, irrespective of the exigencies and the urgencies of party faction fights which unfortunately are degrading the national life of this country at this time? Why should the Standing Orders of this Parliament be altered in order that we may change our whole system of internal organisation to suit members who may be unconstitutionally appointed? If I were the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  or the honourable member for Cowper or one of those others who had been appointed, I certainly would want the position cleared up. 
The Government is challenging the right of 18-year olds to vote. Some interested person might be spurred on by a national inclination to challenge how Assistant Ministers are placed in the Parliament in respect of offices of profit under the Crown. Therefore, it is up to the government of the day to see that it clarifies the position of the Assistant Ministers who have been appointed. That is why I have moved this amendment on behalf of myself, because it is an amendment vote, that when the constitutional position of Assistant Ministers has been determined, then these standing orders will take effect. I ask members of the Government parties: What is wrong with that proposition? We have not heard one statement in this Parliament from the Prime Minister or anyone as to what is the constitutional position. We have only heard that the Assistant Ministers were being appointed. We all know the reason why they were appointed but no Minister or Member from the other side has come into this Parliament and said that constitutionally the Government has the authority to appoint these Assistant Ministers. 
As I mentioned a moment ago, if I were one of those members, I would live in fear and trepidation that some elector with the interests of this country at heart might challenge constitutionally their standing in this Parliament. Just where are we going when a government arrogantly, for the sake of votes in a party room, appoints Assistant Ministers and refuses to tell honourable members what the Assistant Ministers are doing, what they are paid and what facilities they will have at their disposal? Private members work and try to get around. They cannot get anything out of this Government from a car to a salary increase yet the Government appoints Assistant Ministers at tremendous cost in order to bolster up the failing fortunes of a Prime Minister in a Party room. We do not know constitutionally whether they should be there. We do not know what salaries they receive or what they do or in any way how they contribute to the welfare of this country. And now we are asked to alter the Standing Orders of the Parliament. 
For my part, I object to it. I have moved my amendment and 1 hope that it will be carried and if it is not carried, I hope some elector - I appeal to them - will go to the High Court and challenge the standing of Assistant Ministers because, in my view, backed up by the evidence of years gone by in similar circumstances, these Assistant Ministers have been unconstitutionally appointed. They have no place in our parliamentary system. There is nothing in our Standing Orders or in the methods we adopt that provides for them. I think that the Government has reached the real depth of political intrigue and sordid events when it appoints people, irrespective of the constitutional position, because of internal party rows. I would suggest to the Assistant Ministers concerned that they should all resign until this matter is cleared up. I fear for their future and, consequently, I believe that in their interests and in the interests of the Parliament, we should not amend the Standing Orders as proposed by the Standing Orders Committee until such time as the position has been clarified. I have said that in all sincerity knowing full well the suffering that the Assistant Ministers would be personally caused if their seats were declared vacant but in the interests of democracy, let us be on sound constitutional grounds on this matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
As Deputy Chairman, on behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present the Committee's report on proposals for variations of the plan of the layout of the city of Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory as gazetted in 1925 - the 49th series of variations. I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I am prompted to say a few words on this subject following the speech of the farmer from Warringah- the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  I feel that if a member of the Liberal Party representing a waterside electorate in Sydney can speak for Liberal Party rural policy at a time when we thought that the Liberal Party and the Country Party had one policy, I, as a former resident of Currabubula, can say a few words tonight on this important matter. Is not it an amazing and unfortunate situation that 23 years after the Liberal Party and the Country Party came to government we are tonight debating rural reconstruction with all the horrors associated with it as exemplified by speeches from honourable members on this side of the Parliament. Is not it tragic to think that after 23 years of a policy for the countryman foisted upon the Liberal Party by the Country Party tonight we have to vote and speak on the grant of $121m to save the rural industries from destruction despite the policies of this administration? I do not know who is to speak for the Government. I do not know whether it will be the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  or the Assistant 
Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr King).  One thing is quite definite to the Australian people. It is that we need a Minister to assist the Minister for Primary Industry because if this is his record that we are discussing tonight it is time that the honourable member for Wimmera who is at the table took his place because he could not be much worse. Throughout the country districts of Australia today there is unemployment and want. Men are walking off their farms. As the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  have said tonight, people throughout the country districts in this prosperous age are in want and require assistance to the extent of $121m. This is happening after 23 years of government during which we were told that the primary producers would be protected and looked after. Is not this an indication that this year the people in the country districts should vote for the only real country party representatives, the members of the Australian Labor Party who really understand the problems of the country people? Honourable members opposite laugh. In 1944, the Labor Party introduced a referendum to give organised marketing to primary producers. It was defeated, thanks to the confusion created by the very people who were supposed to represent them at that time. In 1946 another referendum for organised marketing was put to the Australian people. At that time, we showed the people what Labor could do for the producer in a few short years. I will repeat what it did for the benefit of those newcomers to this Parliament who know nothing of the record of Labor for the primary producers in this country. When it came to office, Labor stabilised the wheat industry and gave wheatgrowers guaranteed prices. It provided the majority of the grower representatives on the Australian Wheat Board. It provided cheap wheat for feed purposes. It provided over 2m - they were pounds at that time - for drought relief. It enabled farmers to purchase superphosphate at less than market prices. It guaranteed prices in respect of barley, oats, maize, other grain; and pig meats. 
A Labor Government. It secured increased prices for wool which gave additional millions of pounds a year to wool growers. I lived in the country districts when wool sold for lOd a lb and wheat sold for 7d a bushel. A Tory government forced people to walk off their farms 40 years ago just as it is forcing them to do this today. Yet it is still asking for support in country districts. In addition to this, the Labor Party granted subsidies worth $7,500,000 a year to the dairy industry. This was in 1943 and 1944 when, under a Labor Government, money was money, and when there was value in the 1. It was when the 1 was worth 1 and not the few cents which the dollar is worth today. The Labor Party secured increased prices for various classes of meat and meat products and entered into a long range contract with the British Government for the sale of all surplus meat and dairy products. It stabilised the price of potatoes and doubled the price which was previously received. It increased the price of tobacco leaf. It increased the price of flax. In 5 years it gr:anted assistance to primary producers to the value of over 40m. In 3 years of achievement while in Government it did more for primary producers than this Government has done in 23 years. 
At that time primary producer organisations everywhere condemned the Country Party for being what it was and as it is today, masquerading under a policy of having country interests when it really represents the vested interests of the cities which it says it despises so much. I have here an article from the Western Australian Wheatgrower' of 29th July 1943. I read this article because what it said is as true today as it was in 1943. I do not think that the 'Wheatgrower' is a militant paper. I do not think it is pro-communist. I understand that it was a supporter of the Country Party at that time. The article in this paper said: 
The Country Party, who have so long complained to the farmer that the city interests are truly those which have bled the farmer white, now ally themselves with the Party representing those interests and pretending as they do that such a course is the only one open for the true benefit of the man on the land. 
I hardly think that there is an actual countryman in the Country Party. Everyone knows that the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  is an auctioneer, and not a good one. The Country Party is clouded up with solicitors and ministers of religion. Its membership is made up of everything but country men. Yet members of the Party masquerade in this Parliament today as people representing primary industry. It is no wonder the country people want $121m worth of relief. The members of the Country Party have ceased to represent the country interests. They are dragging along at the coat tails of the Liberal Party which tonight announced its own independent country policy. I thought that this was a united Government. I thought that honourable members opposite had one policy for one people. But there is a Liberal-Country Party policy and a Country Party policy. The result has been that the Government has to vote $12 lm to allow farmers and others to get unemployment relief and assistance. This has been necessary because the Government's policy has failed as a result of disunity. 
I wish I had time to read all of the booklet I have here. It reveals a remarkable record. Further on it has a chapter headed Praise for Labor'. Another article which appeared in the 'Wheatgrower' stated: 
With the passage of time it has become more and more obvious to those who think, that  the  Country Party is but a glorious offshoot of the city interests. , 
The 'Wheatgrower' of 15th July 1943 added: 
Most farmers will readily admit that greatest benefits and most sympathy have come their way through the efforts of Federal Labor against whom the former political leaders would lead them in a crusade of hate and vituperation. 
These comments are as true today as they were 20 years ago. If we want any proof we should have a look at the record shown in the proposal which we are discussing tonight. The honourable member for Mallee has sat silently here since his Party has been in Government and has supported a policy which brought the rural industries down in ruins and chaos. Why should he not do this? The Queen knighted him for his efforts. What would she have done if he had done something for the rural producers? I do not wonder that the Government has appointed an Assistant Minister to assist the Minister. He needs half a dozen such men. We know what the real situation is today. The booklet to which I have referred is an interesting one and I would like, if I could, to incorporate it all in Hansard. But I have great respect for the Hansard people. 
I hear the Minister. The Minister is a really bright Minister. The other day someone asked him should the Leader of the Country Party replace the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and he said: 'No, the present Prime Minister would be equally as good as  Mr Gorton  was'.  Mr Gorton  lost 22 seats, so here's to the next Labor government. I just mention these matters in passing. I do not mind the Minister interjecting because it gives me good practice for more serious audiences. 
When we sought to organise marketing for primary producers this is what we told the Australian people, and farmers everywhere should be remembering it tonight. Until Labor came to office in those years the farmer was as destitute as he is today under a Liberal-Tory Government, But Labor let the man on the land march proudly through Australia. Instead of owing the banks money, the banks owed him money and throughout this country at that time the farmer or primary producer stood proudly, knowing full well that he could stand with his head high and that he was not in debt. Between 1939 and 1944 mortgages and bank overdrafts owed by primary producers had been reduced by over 60m under a Labor government. More primary producers went into higher and more assured income groups. Australia's wartime marketing experience clearly showed the great advantage to primary producers pf enabling a single national authority to lay down a plan on marketing for primary products. The Labor Party gave the primary producer the opportunity to live as he should - as a human being with a good return for his products, a fair return to the worker, and in every way take his place in society not as a debtor but as a proud man adding his contribution to the welfare of this country. 
I tell electors in country districts that men like the honourable members for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  are the type of men who will come into this Parliament in floods after the next election and who will really speak for the rural and primary producers of this country. Is it not shocking that members of the Country Party chide me when I speak on wheat, wool and chaff? I was reared in the country districts. But is it not dreadful that this great Liberal Party which is running the country can only produce the farmer from Warringah to represent it in this place? What a remarkable situation this is. Tonight, therefore, I thought I would expose what has been done in relation to primary producers. The Country Party and the Liberal Party have been politically married and divorced so often that it would take a combination of Hollywood stars to break the record. I think that tonight they are on the wave again. We have seen 2 policies presented. We have seen 2 Ministers presented. To show the unity between the 2 Parties, they could not afford to appoint an assistant to the Minister from the Liberal Party because the 2 Parties do not talk politically; they talk only publicly. They seem to present the facade of unity to the people. The honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  has become very vociferous in more recent weeks on rural matters. If I was as close to the political wind as he is I would do the same. I congratulate him on his intelligence, even though he has not done much for the country people between election years; he did nothing until this year. 
The point at issue is that the members of the Country Party in this Parliament get 10 per cent of the votes of the Australian people. But by rigged and gerrymandered boundaries, where one vote in the country is worth about 2 in the cities, they dominate the Government of this country. The reason that primary producers are in trouble today is that Country Party members have dominated the rural policies of this country. This means that a dole of $121m has to be given out to primary producers. I do not begrudge the primary producers their $121m of dole. The primary producers are entitled to this amount. But let us have a look at what it means to this Government. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
At the review meeting the Commonwealth and States agreed that rehabilitation loans for farmers obliged to leave the industry and suffering personal hardship were not sufficient to meet the farmer's needs at a time of personal readjustment. Accordingly the maximum amount of the loan has been increased from $1,000 to $3,000. 
Do the farmers and the Australian public know what that means? It means that the Government has given a sum equivalent to 30 days travelling allowance that the Ministers get in this Parliament towards the rehabilitation of the rural industries. Every farmer until this proposal came in was worth 30 days travelling allowance of Ministers in the Liberal Government. The Government is getting really generous in an election year. The farmers are now geting as much as a Minister of this Government gets for 90 days travelling allowance. So while the cockies and the graziers in the country districts are looking forward to $3,000 they should remember that Ministers and Assistant Ministers when they run around the country for 90 days get just as much for doing something that has brought farmers to the state of ruin that they are in today. What a tragic commentary of 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government. Why, a Labor government in 3 months would do as much as the present Government can do in 30 years. We realise the contribution that primary producers have made to the Australian economy. We realise that we should have their welfare in mind. Of course I support the grant that has been made. The only thing I say is: What a paltry amount it is. 
Every farmer who gets the $50 that the honourable member for Riverina mentioned should resolve that while ever he lives he will never again he represented by a Country Party member if .the amount he receives means only a couple of days travelling allowance, as I mentioned a few moments ago. 
I do not like to speak in this strain. There are some members of the Country Party whom I like. There are some members of the Liberal Party whom I like. But on these great issues one must tell country people how they are misrepresented in this Parliament. Time does not permit me to run through the long and infamous record of Country Party representation of primary producers. But tonight, in saying that the amount being granted is not enough, let me place on record the disgraceful attempt by this Government in 23 years of office to care for the needs of the primary producer and let me say that the Labor Party will remedy this situation as soon as it forms a government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr MacKELLAR (Warringah)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yesterday the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced that during June he intends to visit Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia. This in itself is a matter of some concern to the Australian people and the Parliament. In the course of this announcement the Prime Minister said that Australia shared with her 3 neighbours similar views on independence, progress etcetera. The Press release went on to make this remarkable statement: 
Australia's association with Indonesia dates back to the first days of Indonesia's independence. 
Honourable members may recall that at that time the Liberal Party had very little to do with bringing about that situation. To claim the honour for it at this stage seems a remarkable approach by the Prime Minister to Indonesia's independence. I can well remember the Liberal Party's condemnation at that time of the efforts of the waterside workers to assist Indonesia. 
The Press release further stated: 
He last visited  Singapore in  1971 . . . 
We all remember that famous occasion. He went with the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton.  One travelled with Qantas and the other travelled on a VIP aircraft. One sat upstairs and the other sat downstairs. One had a hotel suite and the other said that his accommodation was like a slum. They did not talk to each other. That was the last remarkable visit to Singapore by the present Prime Minister. Of course in 1964 he took the trouble to drop into Malaysia. Now, in the dying days of his administration, he is going to renew those old acquaintances  - if  any of them are alive. 
So far the Prime Minister has not decided whether he will fly by Qantas or in a VIP or RAAF aircraft. I suppose that will be decided when he finds out which members of the Liberal Party are going with him. Certainly many of them could not be put on the one aircraft. They would want an aircraft each because not only do they not talk here but certainly they would not talk to each other in Singapore. No doubt that detail will be decided when the selection has been made. I think I can assure the people of Australia that neither the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  nor the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  will be there even as observers let alone as advisers. 
A more important matter has to be raised in connection with the visit of the Prime Minister. What qualifications has he at this stage to represent Australia anywhere abroad? When all is said and done, the members of his own Government do not want him. It has been suggested by the Victorian Branch of the Australian Country Party that he should be immediately replaced by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  who is now in foreign lands. Where does the Prime Minister get the authority to travel and speak for Australia? What a time to choose. From one end of Australia to the other the Party which he leads nationally is fragmenting. In South Australia the Party is in ruins; there is a Party within a Party. On Saturday in Tasmania it will meet its political doom at the hands of the electors, brought down we are told by the dictatorial attitude of the Prime Minister. In Queensland the Country Party and the Liberal Party are eating out of each other's hand - right up to the elbow. 
Fancy thinking that in Canberra there is any unity. The honourable members I mentioned earlier - the honourable members for Berowra, Moreton and Higgins - are sniping and giving vent each day to their opinions. I remind honourable members of the famous statement T won't shut up' made by the honourable member for Moreton when he was criticising the Government. The Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  has been sniping at his own colleagues. This is happening right down the line. Even members of the Country Party, such as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  are raising questions in the Parliament about the Ministry. 
All in all, the Prime Minister is leaving behind him in this country at the present time intrigue, hatred and gallup polls which show that the Government's stocks are at an all time low. I wonder whether he is escaping in order to allow the scattered remnants of the Liberal Party to be gathered together in his absence, hoping that when he returns he will find the Party united behind him. How can the Prime Minister leave Australia when things are as I have just mentioned and when, I understand, the Liberal Club in Canberra is asking the Australian people to vote Labor at the next elections? What a reference to have when the Prime Minister confronts the leaders of Malaysia and other countries. I wonder whether he will take with him another remarkable document, such as the one that he took when he went to see President Nixon. Honourable members will remember that that document contained the date on which the Prime Minister was born and the period for which he had been a member of Parliament. Will he take with him a document similar to that one? I bet that that document astounded President Nixon, but it would really daze the people of South East Asia. 
Let us turn to the other side of the picture and look at the situation at home. Under this Government there are 100,000 people unemployed in Australia, inflation is running riot, rural industry is in tatters and ruins, as was demonstrated in the debate in this House tonight, and social service benefits are amongst the lowest of any country, even those countries which are supposed to be not as advanced as we are. Nobody knows what our foreign policy is from hour to hour. In addition, on all fronts in Australia today the Liberal-Country Party Government has been discredited in the eyes of the Australian people. The Prime Minister is taking a trip abroad to do Lord knows what in Singapore, Malaysia and the other countries which he will visit. 
Why should the Prime Minister leave Australia at this stage? He has only 6 months left. What can he promise the people of South East Asia with the record behind him which I have mentioned? If he cannot run Australia, what the devil could he do for South East Asia? Is that not a fair question? Ask Australians what they think about the Prime Minister's proposed visit to South East Asia. They will say: 'Heavens above. Thank heavens he is going, but what is he going to tell the people in South East Asia? Look at the ruins that our country is in at the present time.' Therefore, I think that it is impudent for the Liberal Party to let its Prime Minister travel abroad at this time, with the Government's sorry and condemning record of mal-administration at every level from foreign affairs to domestic affairs. The Liberal Party is in tatters and ruins and has been discredited by every gallup poll, which has shown that the public is only waiting to tip the Liberal Party out of office. 
I suggest to the Prime Minister that he should stay at home.  His  going abroad is a waste of public money. He cannot influence the people in South East Asia. There is nothing he can promise them. Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that no matter what the Prime Minister might say to the people in South East Asia, he might well be repudiated, at least by some important sections of his party, the minute that he makes a speech in this Parliament. I suppose that he will take  Senator Sim  with him. He would be a good man to have in Singapore. He really has his finger on the pulse, so we are told, as to what is happening over there. Why should not  Senator Sim  go as the Prime Minister's adviser? After all, he is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and  Chairman  of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Indian Ocean. This is the background against which the Prime Minister is to go to South East Asia in an endeavour to influence the people with whom we will have to live in the years ahead. I suggest that this is something of which the Australian public should be aware. A Prime Minister, who cannot run this country, is going to South East Asia to try to build up friendships for a Government that is about to meet its political doom. This kind of thing is a waste of public money. 
The Prime Minister has not bothered to visit Malaysia since 1964. He leaves it until the last dying days of this Parliament to recognise our Asian neighbours. This is something that I think should be brought to the attention of the public. I suggest that the Prime Minister's place at the present time is in Australia. Australia really wants leadership. Australians are fair-minded people, and they would like to see the Prime Minister give leadership. He has given no indication that he wants to lead this country, yet he seeks to build up his image abroad, irrespective of what bis background at home might be. The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  who is sitting at the table, is one of the very few intelligent Ministers. But from time to time he has suffered at the hands of honourable members opposite. I suggest that he should use his good offices to keep the Prime Minister in Australia. 
Others on the Government side of the House who value the prestige of this country and who realise that those who go abroad should speak for us with one united voice and on policies which will be supported should urge the Prime Minister to cancel the Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft or the Qantas aircraft on which he will travel and see that he remains in this country to give leadership and bring together the rabble that now surrounds him masquerading as a government. I suggest that that is a national obligation for honourable members opposite. Let us see them use that independence of thought which they say they can use in their party councils and advise the Prime Minister against what I know will be an ill fated trip. 
Tonight I believe I have done a service to the country in placing on record my thoughts about what I consider to be a disastrous event - a Prime Minister representing nobody speaking for Australia in Asia, one of the most important sections of the world so far as Australia is concerned. I say in all sincerity that I am sorry for the Prime Minister but I am sorrier still for Australia. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Can he say how many casualties have been suffered by the American Forces in the war in Vietnam; if  so,  how many (a) have been killed (b) were wounded (c) are missing and (d) have been taken as prisoners of war. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many foreign students are at present attending Australian universities. 
How many of them are (a) private and (b) assisted students. 
Of those enrolled in each category, how many are of (a) European, (b) non-European and (c) mixed descent. 
It is truly said that if one lives long enough one will probably see everything. To have a member of the Country Party criticising the Labor Party in respect of electoral malpractices must be one of the most remarkable events of the age because the very Party which sits opposite is responsible for the gerrymandering of electorates in this country in a way that has given them false representation and power beyond the number of persons who voted for them. One would have thought that today the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  in dealing with the administration of the Electoral Act would have covered the ramifications of the great democratic process envisaged in the Electoral Act. Instead of that he has made it a petty Party issue, introduced for political purposes only. 
If one were waiting for this Minister to defend one, what a long wait it would be. The matter to which the Minister has referred occurred on 13th March, about 6 weeks ago, and except for an answer to a question asked recently in this Parliament the Minister has done nothing about it until now. Probably he learned from the Vietnam debate of a little time ago when 3 backbenchers on the Government side, under the pretence of attacking the Labor Party, exploded a time bomb in the midst of their colleagues. Today, 6 weeks later, the Minister comes into the Parliament on this issue not to defend his officers but for purely political motives in an attempt to discredit members of the Labor Party. He dealt with an alleged statement by the secretary of the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Peter  Westerway. No substance has been given to the Parliament on whether the statement reported by the Australian Broadcasting Commission is actually the statement made by  Mr Westerway.  No-one here has stated that he will vouch for the authenticity of the statement. Members on the Government  6ide  constantly level criticism at the ABC so it is interesting to hear them quote the ABC as their source of information. The Government has based its argument on a statement allegedly made over the ABC by  Mr Westerway. 
Honourable members opposite are somewhat dilatory in their approach to this matter. I make this broad statement firstly so that members will know the attitude of the Australian Labor Party on matters affecting members of the Party and on the integrity of people involved in the Public Service. Australians are fortunate in that public life and the Public Service have been singularly free from malpractice and corruption. Our history shows that events of this nature have been rare indeed. In fact, members of all political parties and the people of this country should be grateful for the high standard of personal integrity of those who serve in public life and in the Public Service. Our Public Service has an outstanding record of integrity and loyalty. This includes, of course, those persons engaged in the administration of the Commonwealth Electoral Office, whose responsibility it is from time to time to conduct the democratic process of elections. I have had long experience in this Parliament and in elections, going back almost 30 years during which time I have contested and won 11 Federal elections in both marginal and safe seats, and have participated in many others at the State and Federal levels. Therefore I feel that I am in a position to pass fair judgment on the functions of those whose responsibility it is to administer electoral affairs. 
The Commonwealth Electoral Officer,  Mr Frank  Ley, and his officers throughout Australia are, in my view and in the view of the Australian Labor Party, men of the highest personal integrity. Though on occasions their interpretations on certain matters may rightly be questioned, their fairness and impartiality cannot be denied. It is not the responsibility of the Federal Leader of the Opposition or even the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party or for that matter any leader in this Parliament to answer for statements made by every member of the Labor Party or any branch of the Labor Party any more than it is in other parties. The views expressed by individual Party members or officers, no matter how highly placed in the Party, or even State branches, as members will know from the events of a few days ago, do not necessarily represent the policy or views of the Party or those of the Leader or the parliamentary Labor Party. Labor leaders are bound no more than the Country Party leaders were bound when a Country Party conference in Victoria called for the replacement of  Mr McMahon  as Prime Minister by  Mr Anthony.  The resolution of that conference did not represent the views of the Country party in this Parliament. I place that on record in the Parliament. Members on the Government side would give the impression that in this Parliament Labor Party members are the only ones who wish to attack Commonwealth electoral officers. In 1962 when a redistribution of boundaries took place the Leader of the Country Party, supported by members I see sitting here now, accused electoral officers of rigging the electorates against the Country Party and refused to pass it through this Parliament. So much did this happen that  Mr R.  F. Mallon, the Commonwealth Electoral Officer in New South Wales at that time, is reported as having said: 
Political consideration had no part in the redistribution of electoral boundaries. 

 Mr Mallon said the Commonwealth Government had not given redistribution commissioners any instructions that could influence their decisions. 
He was replying to criticism by the Minister for Trade,  Mr McEwen,  that the present system of redistribution reacted unfavourably against the Country Party and rural areas. 

 Mr McEwen said tha present law was too indefinite. 
In other words, he accused them of having pressure brought to bear on them. These were the very men that the Liberal-Country Party Government, some members of which still sit opposite, had appointed as redistribution commissioners and then in effect levelled a charge of corruption against them. It was left to the Labor Party to defend the electoral officers on that occasion as the Labor Party has always defended the integrity of the electoral officers. On 17th November 1962  Mr McEwen  was reported in a newspaper as hitting at the crazy seats plan. The people he was criticising were the people who were appointed by the Government of the day, of which he was a member, but because their decision did not suit him he made up all kinds of accusations. If one were to study the records of that time one would see that  Mr McEwen  said the Country Party had lost power and votes. 
Vicious attacks were made on the Commonwealth electoral officers and the redistribution commissioners. Yet today the Country Party representatives stand in the Parliament and criticise the Labor Party. I make these matters clear so that members will be aware that this is a political issue which has been raised in this Parliament today not to defend the electoral officers, whom the Australian Labor Party believe are of an integrity that is beyond question, but rather to gain some political advantage. Why did not the Minister deal with the administration of his Department, as he said he would? At page 13474 of the Notice Paper, one sees listed the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1971, the Senate Elections Bill 1971 and the Referendum Constitution Alteration Bill 1971. They have been on the notice paper since 31st March last year and the Minister is not game to debate them in parliament because he knows that they will reveal the gerrymander taking place in Queensland trying to get them back into the Parliament at the next election. At page 13482 of the Notice Paper is listed the Adulthood Bill which would give the vote to 18-year olds, and the Territory Senators Bill 1970 which was introduced by the Leader of the Opposition. Another Commonwealth Electoral Bill which I introduced last year remains undebated because the Minister has not been prepared to debate it. Under the heading General Business is another Bill brought down by the Leader of the Opposition to give 18-year-olds the vote. Instead of playing petty Party politics why does not the Government deal with the administraton of the Electoral Act. Why does not the Minister tell us why census results have not been announced; why extra seats have not been created in Western Australia; why there is not another member for the Australian Capital Territory? Why does not the Minister tell us why the Government will not debate the matter of the vote for 18-year-olds? The question of postal votes should be dealt with also. Postal votes have been manipulated by unscrupulous party organisers from time to time and the system needs reforming. Why will not the Government tell us the reason for Aborigines names being removed from the roll because they are supposed to be not living at the address given? A dozen and one other things could be brought forward. Why not deal with the question of polling, the question of Senate voting and the question of the elimination of the huge total of about 500,000 informal votes? Why not deal with the question of a draw for positions on the ballot paper? The Government would not want that as it would affect the Austraiian Democratic Labor Party. Why not deal with the principle of one vote one value, and why not deal with the gerrymandering of electoral boundaries instead of doing what the Government is doing at this stage - just playing party politics under the guise of protecting the officers whom it has forgotten for 6 weeks? 
These are matters on which the Government seeks to evade its responsibilities. These are matters that the Government of the day should face up to instead of presenting to the Parliament a 2 or 3 page document which was read in a couple of minutes on the administration of the Electoral Act which in effect was a personal attack on a member of the Labor Party. The Minister's statement has no great bearing on the administration of the matters we thought the Minister would be discussing. The Government is in a desperate plight. It is snatching at straws today. Raising this matter was another effort by the Government to get on the band wagon. It brought forward this one desperate, tiny episode to try to wreck a future government. Quite frankly the Minister will have to do better. Elections cannot be won in this way because the people of this country want greater administrative action electorally than has been presented in the document by the Minister today. 
I do not think the speech of the Minister deserves any more attention than I have given it. He talked for a few minutes whereas we thought he was to give us an extensive survey on administration. I have pointed out to the Parliament the shortcomings of this Government in electoral matters and how it is not prepared to debate them in this Parliament. We all know that the Party the Minister represents is the prince of gerrymandering parties anywhere in the world today. It has foisted on the Queensland electors the greatest gerrymander of all times. Under the guise of democrats it has destroyed every vestige of democractic representation in the country. As I mentioned a moment ago, in 1962 the former Leader of the Country Party, supported by the new knight of the realm, the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull),  and other members of the Party, including the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who is sitting at the table, accused our electoral commissioners of being corrupt because they would not gerrymander the boundaries as the Country Party wanted them. The Country Party loaded the electorates with 20 per cent margins in an endeavour to save its prestige and position in the Parliament despite falling numbers. 
I conclude on that note. I have made clear the views of the Opposition in respect of the integrity of electoral officers everywhere, and I have recorded also that we are not responsible as a Party for individual statements. I assure this House that we on this side of the Parliament have the fullest confidence in those who conduct the electoral affairs of this country. But we believe that certain legislative reforms are necessary to restore real democratic government. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say whether it is an offence under the electoral Acts of some countries and states for campaign workers to distribute how to vote cards, literature, etc., on polling day; if so, what are the names of the countries and states concerned. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Can he  say  what are the (a) methods for appointing re-distribution commissioners and (b) qualifications necessary for appointment as  a  commissioner in each State of Australia under the respective Electoral Acts. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many candidates contested elections for 
the House of Representatives and 
the Senate on behalf of 
the Australia Party, 
the Communist Party and 
the Australian Democratic Labor Party in each of the last 5 elections. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the staff of each Minister at this date. 
What is the designation of each member of the staff of each Minister. 
What (a) salary, (b) travelling allowance and (c) other allowance is payable to each of them. 
I had not intended to speak on the matter which the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  has mentioned, but I shall make passing reference to it. I agree with the honourable member when he criticises this Government, because criticising this Government is justified in relation to anything - not only foreign aid. Consequently I congratulate the member of what we are told is the independent thinking Liberal Party on having the courage to defy that fiery figure, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who sits at the table in this House from time to time, in expressing his dissatisfaction at the Government's policy on foreign aid. With the honourable member for Holt and other honourable members who sit on the other side of this Parliament I agree that there is a great deal of poverty throughout the world. It is our responsibility to play our part in relieving that poverty. But with due respect to the honourable member I have never heard him speak in this Parliament of the condition of the pensioners in this country, 200,000 of whom live in Australia today on $20 a week. I have never heard the honourable member express concern at the poverty that exists under this Government in this country today. 
With due respect to the peoples of the world, I am one who believes that charity begins at home and that it is time that this Government and the honourable member for Holt paid a bit of attention to the churchmen of this country who have brought to the attention of the people of Australia the conditions of poverty under which our own people live under this Government which has been in office for about 23 years. Is it not tragic to think that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  had to be shown, as it were, by leading churchmen in Sydney that poverty existed in this country? Is it not a tragedy that churchmen and other people have constantly to bring it to the attention of the Government that people, probably within a stone's throw of this House, are living below the poverty line? With due respect to those in similar situations abroad, I am one who believes that there is no need to apologise for what Australia is doing for the people of the world. Despite the fact that there is a 
Liberal Government in office, we as Australians and our government play pur part in bringing salvation to people throughput the world by way of aid and things of that nature. 
But what I am dissatisfied with and what I decry is that honourable members on the other side of the chamber constantly undermine what Australia does for people abroad and completely neglect their responsibility to care for the people of this country. I heard the honourable member for Holt say that Bangladesh requires Si Om for this and S40m for something else. If I suggested that similar amounts should be provided for the pensioners of Australia I would be heehawed out of Parliament by honourable members opposite. By all means let us give aid to the people of Bangladesh and to people in other places, whether it be $40m or $50m, but let us give to the pensioners throughout the length and breadth of this country an equivalent amount because 200,000 of them are living on $20 a week in this age of prosperity and affluence, as we call it. 
Whilst I understand the great concern which the honourable member for Holt holds for these people, a concern which I and every member of this Parliament share, I hope he will stimulate his Government to do something for those people who in this country live in want and poverty, at a time when they should be enjoying the fruits of their labours. They are the pioneers of this country who have made it possible for Australia to give to people abroad, but they in turn are now suffering poverty. Yet those who sit opposite in support of this Government not only do nothing for them but also want to give millions of dollars to people on the other side of the world. For my part, and I do not care much who knows it, I want to see every person in this country above the poverty line - well above it. We will have fulfilled our responsibilities for the people whom we represent in this country, the citizens who put us in this Parliament, when not one person in this country is in want. We are all keen to play our part in relieving poverty throughout the world. But to the honourable member for Holt and to other members of the Liberal Party let me say that charity begins at home. This Government has betrayed its responsibility to the people whom I represent in this Parliament. Today in my district people by the thousands are in want under this Government which boasts of what it is doing in various spheres of activity. Honourable members opposite have a lot of concern for people everywhere, but not for the people whom they represent. That is why this Government's supporters are going to go where they ought to go, into the political limbo of the forgotten, as soon as the people get an opportunity to send them there. 
I turn now to the matter on which I rose to speak. I read that when the Prime Minister is lying awake during many of those sleepless nights, wondering who from among those who sit behind him is going to stab him, he reads the Bible. I hope that when he is reading it he is reading how he will take us into the promised land, because after 20-odd years it is nearly time that he got us there. I want to say to him that if he lived in the districts which I represent - in Leichhardt, Marrickville, Newtown and other places- he would have plenty of time to read the Bible because of the aircraft which, due to the policy of this Government, are permitted to fly at night time 1,000 feet above the heads of the residents in those districts. I would like the Prime Minister to move into that area and live there for a while. If he did so, not only would his interest in the Bible be stimulated but also he might get an inspiration to do something about the menace of aircraft noise in the community today. 
When all is said and done, the Prime Minister wants some stimulus. I have noticed that it costs $100,000 a year to maintain his staff, whereas a private member can hardly get a secretary to assist him. Yet the Prime Minister does nothing at all in respect of a number of major issues confronting the people of Australia. In my district we find the aged, the sick and the infirm, the kids in the schools and the residents who have built their homes there, continually menaced by aircraft noise. The Government does nothing at all to curtail this problem in any way, yet it is probably the greatest menace to living standards or residential standards anywhere in this country today. Only yesterday or the day before I received a letter from the Marrickville Municipal Council, which is a good council. It is a Labor council and, what is more, the people in the municipality vote Labor and therefore are worth- representing. What these people lack in worldly goods they have up top. In other words, they know the party that they ought to support. Let me tell honourable members what the council said in its letter of 14th April. It reads: 
At a recent meeting of the Council it was agreed to adopt recommendations made by the Committee of Representatives of Municipalities Affected by Noise from the Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport at its meeting held on the 15th March, 1972, at Botany Council Chambers, to which this Council sent three (3) Representatives. 
This Council strongly protests against any further development of the Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport, which is in close proximity to the Marrickville Municipality. The flight path of the North-South Runway, particularly, greatly affects many thousands of residents of the area, lt is of particular concern to this Council that the noise generated by the approaching and departing aircraft takes place not only during the normal working day, but because of the frequent breakage of the curfew hours- 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you are one of those good members of Parliament who reside in their respective electorates. You know your constituents and the problems that aircraft noise brings to them. I mention that the honourable member for Sydney is temporarily occupying the Chair. The letter continued: takes place at any time during the night, resulting in extreme disturbance to the peace of the neighbourhood. 
The Council has written to the Minister for Civil Aviation and the Regional Director of Civil Aviation protesting at the continued breakage of the curfew hours as laid down by the Noise Abatement Committee. Less regard is given to the curfew hours during the times when people expect some peace and quiet, such as at Christmas, Easter and other holiday periods, than during normal times. 
If 1. might just interpose here, I suppose that  Mr Ansett  has to continue to make his profits even at that time. The letter continues: 
Any further development of the Airport would also lead to further noise pollution by way of increased passenger and freight road traffic. All this would, of course, add to the already dangerously high level of air pollution. 
The people of this Municipality have endured, for many years, the disturbance and inconvenience caused by the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and although it is appreciated that some of the' disturbances are the price which we must pay for progress, it is considered that the capacity of the Airport should be contained at its present level. 
The Council strongly urges that the residents of this Municipality be sympathetically considered when the siting of a second Sydney airport is under review. 
 The action now taken by Council by reason of this letter is brought about by long-standing, deep concern and is not only generated by reason of the request nf the above mentioned Committee. 
The Committee of which I speak held a meeting on Wednesday, 15th March 1972 at the Botany Council Offices. The representatives of the following councils were present: Hurstville, Sutherland, Marrickville, Botany, Leichhardt, Drummoyne and Canterbury - ail very good councils of the great metropolis of Sydney. The Committee decided, firstly, that it should write to both the Minister and the Regional Director protesting in the strongest possible terms at their practice of continually giving permission for aircraft to take off and land within the curfew hours. I wonder whether the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland),  who is at the table, would be able to ponder over his documents in the middle of the night if planes flew a few feet over his head. I wonder what his wife would say if the kids were awakened. No doubt he would have to nurse them for the rest nf the night as a lot of people have to do in Marrickville and many other suburbs. 
Secondly, the Committee decided to deplore the abandonment of the noise abatement procedures in the pre-Christmas period and any other holiday period. Thirdly, it decided that it should inform the Minister that unless some honest attempt was made to observe and enforce the noise abatement procedures laid down by the Noise Abatement Committee, councils would withdraw their representation on that Committee and seek other ways of obtaining relief from the aircraft. Fourthly, the Committee decided to request the Minister to supply figures for 1971 showing the number of takeoffs, etc. The resolutions passed by this meeting cover a page and a half of print. Time does not allow me to read all of the resolutions. However, what I have read does show the concern of these people who represent in the main, I suppose, half a million souls who are being affected by this menace of aircraft noise. Listen to  a  letter I received from a distraught constituent ra lady - a few days ago. lt says: 
I have no idea what the curfew hours are, but please may I add my complaint to the list  of  those regarding noisy aircraft. 
I could not carry the complaints that  I  have to this Parliament tonight without  a  lorry. This is why I am referring to only one letter. It continues: 
I am employed as receptionist-telephonist at a glass factory situated at Cadogan Street, Marrickville, not far from Sydenham station. At periods during the day, planes, mostly jets, fly over this building, when preparing to land at Mascot. They seem to almost touch the roof. The noise of them is so bad, that I have to close the keys on Ibo switchboard, in the middle of the conversation and keep the caller waiting, until the terrible screaming sound stops, as it is most unpleasant for the person at the other end of the line, as well as myself. It is useless trying to carry on with conversation as not a word can be heard. Sometimes, 2 or 3 jets follow, with intervals of only a few minutes. 
One can bet that they were Ansett planes because this Government does not care what they do. The letter continues: 
As a result of all this noise, I suffer from severe headaches and at the end of each day, I feel exhausted from nervous tension and I have no doubt that I am not the only person working under these conditions. I wonder how the Minister for Civil Aviation would like to work under these conditions for 8 hours a day. 
For the information of the House, let me say that I invited the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to spend a week at my expense in the best motel that we could get under the aircraft flight path anywhere in my electorate. The Minister for Civil Aviation has a bit of sense. He did not accept the invitation for the simple reason that he knew that he possibly could not survive this. 
To add to all of our woes and troubles and just to make certain that not only in the daytime would people be in that demented frame of mind from aircraft noise, the Minister decided in February of this year to give permission to certain airlines to operate Electra turbo-prop freighter aircraft to Sydney Airport during curfew hours. In other words, the Government says: 'We are going to worry you all da; while you are working, if you can, and then to make certain you cannot sleep, we are going to keep you awake all night with turbo-jet and other noise'. In a long letter to me dated 21st March 1972 the Minister said: 
The restriction which has been imposed at Sydney, commonly called the 'curfew', has always related to pure jet aircraft only. The restriction has never been applied to propeller-driven aircraft, such as the Electra, at Sydney or at any other airport in Australia. Although this has been publicised in many of my Press statements, it is clear from letters which I have received on the subject that the situation is not completely understood. 
The letter goes on to state: 
Ansett Airlines of Australia has operated propeller-driven Carvair aircraft during the curfew period at Sydney airport for several years and operations have averaged 10 take-offs and 5 landings per week at the airport during this period. 
The Minister says that they were not noticed. Of course they would not be noticed because so many aircraft from Ansett take off in contravention of the curfew that one does not know whether they are jet or other aircraft. This is the only reason why they are not noticed. 
Let me warn the people in the areas surrounding the Mascot aerodrome - especially the constituents in the Barton, KingsfordSmith and St George electorates - that this is the thin end of the wedge to having 24-hour round the clock flying into Mascot Airport. That is the Government's reason for agreeing to allow freighter aircraft to be put in. It looks as &gt;though the Minister is being sadistic. He seems to be a decent fellow when one meets him - someone who is reasonable and pleasant. But he is almost sadistic. He even gives aircraft time to warm up before they actually take off. The Minister said: 
The general procedures employed at Sydney Airport require that aircraft engine ground running for scheduled maintenance purposes will be restricted to the period 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily. 
Has the Minister ever been awakened at 5 a.m. at Mascot, Newtown or Marrickville and listened to aircraft warming for taking off to bring in profits for those who run these airlines? The Minister continues: 
To minimise the amount of ground running that may commence at 5 a.m., aircraft scheduled for departure between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. will not be permitted to commence an engine run up more than 2 hours prior to departure. 
So if aircraft are to depart before 6 o'clock in the morning one can expect to hear them at 4 o'clock. The Government does nothing about this. It says that people should not live within the proximity of the aerodrome. The fact of the matter is that people were there before aerodromes were thought of. 
In 1953 I made a speech in this Parliament on low flying aircraft at Mascot. At that time everyone laughed at me. But I was the pioneer on the Opposition side in warning of aircraft noise in Australia. Aircraft noise has become a very real menace to people today. Just to rub it in, the Minister for Civil Aviation, in his sadistic way, in answer to a question by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  said that the Concorde will shortly come in. Lord knows where that will take us because I understand that the Concorde will probably be noisier than any other aircraft. Honourable members opposite might say: What can the Government do about this?' It can do a lot about it, but is not prepared to intervene where the profits of airline operators are concerned, irrespective of the effect on the people in the community. The Canberra Times' of 4th March 1972 carried an article on a system for noise abatement. The article states: 
A system has been invented which can cut aircraft noise by 30 per cent. 
Time does not permit me to .deal with the article, but I am told that this can be done. To date the Government has done nothing about it. The House of Commons has introduced legislation to enable effective action to be taken against those people who disturb residents of various areas close to airports in England. The legislation introduced in the House of Commons considerably reduced the menace of aircraft noise in Great Britain. Why does the Government here not do something like that? Of course it will not do anything. It is more wrapped up in the interests of profits and profiteers and the huge airline companies and those who run them than it is with the interests of the people who live in the residential areas in Sydney. In a letter to me of 6th August the Minister for Civil Aviation explained in detail what was done in the House of Commons, but at no stage did he say that the Government would legislate similarly here. He said that, broadly speaking, he thought the Government had this power at the present time. The Government certainly -has not exercised it. 
 The point I make is that the people who live in constituencies adjacent to airports are entitled to consideration because they were there long before aircraft were heard of. Aged people by the thousands reside in those areas, and their health is affected by the menace of aircraft noise. Other residents are affected. Those on night shift, those on day shift and those who work for long hours in factories, workshops and offices are affected by this noise, as are those people in schools like Newington College, which is in my district, who advise me that many times they have to curtail classes. In many churches sermons and services on Sundays have to be curtailed because of this menace. In every way, in hospitals and other places, aircraft noise constitutes one of the greatest menaces in this country today. Yet we find that the Government - worn out, tired and discredited, split to ribbons by dissention and disunity - cares nothing about this important problem, and does nothing about it. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  lives on a property near Oberon where one never sees an aeroplane and tells the people in my district that they ought to put up with what is happening. As the honourable member for Bradfield said once, if the aircraft ever flew low over the dairy farms and stopped the cows from giving milk, you would find every member of the Country Party on his feet wanting to ground every aeroplane in the country. But people in the great metropolis of Sydney suffer from this menace and nothing is done about it. Where people's lives will be affected, it is the Governments' responsibility to establish and plan aerodromes, with expressways to carry people to the great metropolis, instead of having aerodromes established in their midst. Above all else, it is the Government's responsibility to see that people in this country live in security and peace and are not disturbed by this menace of which I have spoken so often. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  is holding up a notice which reads Think big'. The day that he does that will see one of the miracles of this Parliament. Aircraft noise is a major problem. It is a great menace in this country. Why does the Government not learn from Great Britain, America and other places, and establish aerodromes well away from the metropolis, caring for the people and accepting its responsibility to see that those people get some relief from aircraft noise? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What has been the total cost to date to Australia for the F1ll aircraft 
(a) What is the expected date of delivery, and (b) the estimated total cost. 
What sum was originally quoted for the aircraft. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
What facilities, travelling expenses, staff, stamp allowance, telephones and other amenities have been provided to each Assistant Minister. 
What sum in travelling allowance has been paid to each Assistant Minister to date. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What accommodation has been provided for each Assistant Minister in (a) Canberra and (b) each State. 
What is the location and telephone number of each office. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware that the current edition of 'Who's Who in Australia' describes a  Mr E.  K. Sinclair as 'consultant to the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's Department since 1967'? If so, why was  Mr Sinclair  not listed as a member of his staff in his written reply to my question on notice of 24th February advising that he had a staff of 15 which costs over SI 00,000 per annum in salaries? What is  Mr Sinclair's  salary? Is he under contract, and is he given subsidised accommodation at the Hotel Canberra while in Canberra? Furthermore, does the Prime Minister not believe  Mr Sinclair's  appointment as a consultant to him to be somewhat of an imposition on the taxpayers in the light of a recent public opinion poll which showed the Prime Minister's popularity rating at an all time low of 23 per cent - only 2 per centabove that of Prime Minister Sato of Japan who shrewdly decided to call it a day? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
On how many occasions has the curfew been broken by aircraft at Sydney (KingsfordSmith.) Airport since 1st January 1972. 
What was the (a) name of the airline, (b) time of arrival or departure, (c) reason for the flight and (d) destination, in each case. 
The Bill under discussion is a Bill for an Act to amend the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1966 to give the right to vote at 18 years of age. It was introduced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and I second the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. Before I reply to some of the arguments, or what might be called arguments, advanced by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  against this proposal, let me place on record a few salient facts in support of the case put up already by the Leader of the Opposition, which I believe to be unanswerable. This Bill proposes to extend the electoral franchise to all persons at 18 years of age. This has been the policy of the Australian Labor Party for many years, and in the Parliament, as the Leader of the Opposition stated, we have sought to give effect to it, but our moves have been defeated by the Government Parties, who have refused to take the matter to a vote and, as has been just stated by the Minister, will not do so today. 
The Minister said that the Government wanted time to take action in regard to this matter. However, let me remind him that on 25th August 1968 the Leader of the Opposition introduced the Adulthood Bill providing for the right to marry and vote at 18 years of age. It was debated on 21st November 1968, but was not taken to a vote. A similar Bill introduced later by the Leader of the Opposition was debated on 4th June 1970 and was adjourned without a vote being taken. At that time even the then Attorney-General agreed in principle to the proposal. So the argument that because of the rush process involved it would clutter up the electoral administrative machinery at this stage to extend the franchise to 18 year olds is completely negated when we consider the time that has been available. 
The position in the States that the Leader of the Opposition mentioned is interesting. In Western Australia 18 year olds voted for the first time at the last State election, and in South Australia they have been given the right to vote. In New South Wales a Liberal Premier has passed legislation, not yet in force, which lowers the age of legal responsibility to 18 but denies 18 year olds the right to vote. Tasmania, until recently under a Liberal Government, is ready to grant 18 year olds full civil and voting rights. In Victoria, led by Liberal Premier Bolte, who is not exactly a militant progressive, is said to be waiting for the Federal Government to move. He will have a long wait from what we heard from the Minister today. The Queensland Cabinet of Tory persuasion - I would say that it is well out in front in that regard - is in favour of lowering the voting age. In these circumstances it is desirable that similar legislation should be introduced prior to the coming election for the Australian Parliament. In Australia we face the amazing situation that certain States have already extended the franchise to 18 year olds and others propose to do so. We face the extraordinary position, unless the Commonwealth implements the reform, that 18 year old persons will be voting in State but not Federal elections. 
The move for the franchise for 18 year olds is worldwide. The United Stales Administration has indicated approval for it to apply to elections for the United States Congress. Prime Minister Trudeau in Canada feels similarly. In Great Britain 18 year olds voted for the first time during the last election. In Papua New Guinea a constitutional committee presided over by the former  Speaker  of the House of Assembly,  Dr Guise,  has recommended the vote for 18 year olds. Unless the Commonwealth falls into line and brings about the uniformity that the Minister mentioned was essential with State legislation, even on the administrative side it will be necessary to keep 2 electoral rolls in each State, thus creating a chaotic situation between State and Federal elections. In answer to a question by me on 7th September 1971 (he Minister for the Interior advised that no fewer than 37 countries, some certainly with reservations, give the right to vote to 18 year old citizens. These exclude certain States of Australia, some Canadian provinces and some of the States of America. I seek leave to incorporate the question in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Voting Age (Question No. 3876) 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is he able to say which overseas countries and which Australian States provide voting rights for 18 year olds in the election of Governments. 
The following countries provide for a voting age of 18 years. 
Albania; Andorra - all male heads of families; Argentina; Bolivia - married citizens; Brazil; Bulgaria; Burma; Canada; Ceylon; China; Republic of Czechoslovakia; Dominican Republic; Ecuador - all literate citizens; El Salvador; German Democratic Republic (East Germany); Guatemala; Honduras; Hungary; Indonesia; Israel; Jordan - male Transjordanians but not Bedouins; Korea (North); Liechtenstein; Mexico - married citizens; Mongolia; 
Netherlands; Nicaragua - literate or married persons; Poland; Rumania; United Kingdom; Uruguay: U.S.S.R.; Venezuela; Vietnam (North); Vietnam (South); and Yugoslavia. 
Legislation has been passed in New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia lowering the voting age to 18 years for State elections but the new legislation is not yet operative in New South Wales or South Australia. 
A glance at the nations provided for a vote at 18 years of age gives a striking example of how far behind Australia lags in providing this democratic practice. Take, for instance, Andorra where all male heads of families may vote. In Bolivia married citizens may vote. The Dominican Republic is an example. Another example is Ecuador where the vote is limited to literate citizens. So we are with the illiterates in Ecuador at this time! 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! As it is now 2 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House, the debate is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Dr Forbes)  agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion of Notice No. 1, General Business, be extended until 12.45 p.m. 
Other examples are El Salvador, Guatamala and Jordan, where male Transjordanians may vote but not Bedouins. So under the Liberal Government we are right back with the Bedouins. At least the Bedouins are still sticking with us. Further examples are Mongolia and Nicaragua where literate or married persons may vote. Therefore one can see how far back we are. Other examples are Venezuela and Uruguay. These are just a few which one would hardly describe as advanced democratic nations, yet this reform is an established fact in those countries, lt is a tragic fact that Australia, which once proudly led the world by giving equal, democratic vote to every man and woman, now drags at the heels of some of the much less advanced nations of the world. It is now an accepted fact that the majority of the nations of the world consider that men and women at 18 years of age are more mature, better educated and articulate than those of a generation ago at 21 years of age. 
Let me now present the case in support of a vote at 18 years of age for men and women. The age of 21 appears to have been a product more of guesswork than design, or more likely, as Professor Geoffrey Sawer has said: 
That at the time of the establishment of the Commonwealth in 1900 it was accepted as the common age of 'majority' or end of the 'non age' in Australia. 
The position is different today. Young men and women are more mature and better educated in most cases and because of the times in which they live, more advanced mentally than those of a few generations ago. Today, 18-year-olds may, or soon will be able to, enter into contracts, dispose of property, take and defend legal actions, drink in hotel bars, drive, and in numerous other ways act like adults. Thousands of them work and pay taxes. In fact, from an answer given to me by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  recently, it is estimated that in mid- 1971 there were 275,000 males and 235,000 females of 18, 19 and 20 years of age currently employed in Australia - in all, 310,000 persons. 
It is also a fact that a youth of 18 is mature enough, courageous enough and old enough to be conscripted to fight for democracy abroad. It is interesting then to deal with the question of compulsion. The Minister for the Interior said that he did not like to compel youths to vote, but he did not express any kindly feelings for those who are compelled to fight. He did not see that some of those youths may resist this much more I would say than they would resist compulsion to vote. This being the case, on what grounds could they be declared ineligible to have a voice in maintaining democracy at home? 
The fact that they have a vote is not the question. The Minister said that 18-year-olds would object to being compelled to vote. I am pointing out to him that a lot of these youths are objecting to being compelled by this Government to fight. This is a much more striking comparison. 
Great Britain, the United States and other nations accept the principle that if a youth is old enough to be conscripted for military service he is old enough to vote and have a voice in the election of his Government. The Minister for the Interior, who is at the table, said that argument will not hold water. I hope that every man under 21 years of age who is called up and called upon to fight for this country realises that the Minister does not think they are entitled to have a vote. 
It is also true to say that many more teenagers are becoming politically and socially activated. The view is taken that 18-year-olds are immature and incapable of sound judgement. This argument is defeated if we seek to deny a person of 18 years the right to vote on the score of immaturity because is there any reason why it should not be withdrawn from those unfortunate people who reach senility, if we accept that argument? Whether or not men and women are mature enough to vote at 18, the test to be applied is that they are increasingly involved in social, financial, industrial and political affairs and to take a responsible role in society they must have the right to vote. 
This would allow them to be politically articulate in the community - a state of affairs which is denied them now simply because they are not aged 21 years or older. Is it to be said that the dear old lady that votes Conservative or Tory or Liberal or Country Party, God help her, is not as destructive to good government as a young person who supports leftism or militancy. If this test is applied the logical thing to do is to restrict it to those who are reasonably intelligent, to include an IQ test on every ballot paper and prescribe that failure to pass would render the vote informal. It is an impossible and silly argument. 
Again, by what magical process is it assumed that every person aged 21 years and over is mature, intelligent, politically alert, community minded and responsible? To assume this is reaching the heights of fantasy, particularly when one looks at the members of the present Government and study the results of elections in Australia in the last 20 years. 
The case that I have presented has already been accepted by more than 37 nations of the world and in our own country by Western Australia, South Australia and New South Wales, and in principle by Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania - that is, by governments which are the political blood brothers, or the majority of them were, of the present administration. 
Evidently, what is good enough for the Liberal-Country Party in the States is not good enough for the nation. 
Quite apart from the salient facts that I have presented in support of the Bill, it is extremely doubtful whether the Government can legally deny the vote at 18 years in view of recent legislation passed by some of the State governments, as the Leader of the Opposition mentioned. The Government has created a constitutional problem. Section 41 of the Constitution provides that an adult who has the right to vote in elections for the more numerous Houses of Parliament in a State shall be entitled to vote at elections for either House of the Commonwealth Parliament. The Australian Labor Party has decided to challenge the right of the Federal Government to deny to 1 8-year- olds the right to vote at this year's Federal elections and it will hinge on the definition of 'adult' by the High Court, no doubt. 
I do not seek to canvass this matter at this stage, but I consider that had the Commonwealth given 18-year-olds the right to vote as promised or indicated some time ago this crisis could have been avoided. Undoubtedly the case for votes for those of 18 years of age is supported by world opinion, by advanced nations and on the grounds of democratic rights. Even the 18-year-old Liberals - the young Liberals - have become enlightened. I did not know until I read the article in a Sydney newspaper that there were any young Liberals, but they have called upon the Government to implement this measure. Why then does the McMahon Government oppose the legislation? This question is not difficult to answer. The Government fears the vote of the 18-year- olds at the forthcoming election and for this reason the Government stubbornly rejects the legislation. The Commonwealth Statistician indicates that 700,000 men and women will be eligible to vote if the age is lowered to 18 years for the next Federal elections. They could make or break the Government. Evidently the McMahon Government thinks they would break it and that is why the Prime Minister resists this desirable democratic reform. It means that the present Government is prepared to deny a vote to about 10 per cent of the voters at the next elections because it believes they could decide the fate of the Government. Frankly I think Labor will win without them. 
The Prime Minister is working on the theory that it is better to deny them a vote and be certain that the majority will not vote against him in preference to giving them democratic justice, and a say in the election of their Government. Some of the fears of our Prime Minister about the 18- year-old voters are evidently not shared by much more famous world leaders.  President  Nixon evidently did not fear a swing to the left by the 10 million or 11 million 18 to 20-year-olds who will vote in this year's Congressional elections. He lowered the voting age. He evidently believes that he can persuade them to support his policy. Harold Wilson - a true democrat - went to the polls in 1970 when 18 to 20-year-olds voted for the first time and was defeated. But who is to say that they voted against him? In Western Australia 18-year-olds voting for the first time elected the oldest Premier ever to take office in that State and this should give our present Prime Minister at least a gleam of hope. To say the least, to anticipate how the 18-year- olds will vote is a rather dubious, doubtful and dangerous pastime. Whatever the Prime Minister's reason for denying them a vote, there can be no excuse for doing it on the assumption that they will vote right, left centre or against him. It should be divorced from these assumptions and based squarely on the right of citizens of this age to take their rightful place in a democracy and exercise all their rights. The Prime Minister has his doubts as to their support. Quite frankly, judged on his performance, he probably has a case for that point of view. 
Are we to expect that the Government will postpone this reform until the Minister can computerise the voters' thoughts and know precisely from their sex and age what party they intend to support if the vote is given? If the Government had acted democratically it would long ago have drawn up the uniform legislation with the States that the Minister spoke about covering all the rights that go with adulthood or the age of legal responsibility, such as the right to vote. This process would have eliminated the additional costs of preparing separate rolls and at the same time it would have established a democratic right to vote for all 18-year-olds irrespective of State boundaries. However, this was not to be. It appears that under the Liberal-Country Party Government it is not justice or democracy that counts at this time but rather the fear of the effect of the vote of these young people on this worn out, tired and decadent tory administration. If this is the reason, it may be politically expedient but it is certainly democratically contemptible. 
The legislation deserves the support of this Parliament. It is enlightened, responsible, just and democratic. Quite contrary to what the Minister has said, it is wanted by those 600,000 to 700,000 people. The excuses that he has brought forward today were paltry in the extreme but at least I give him credit for being the only Minister for the Interior who has ever put a case against it for us to judge just where this Government stands. He said that there was no time to prepare the legislation, it would be too rushed. That argument collapses when one looks at the Bills that have been introduced in this Parliament. On 31st March last year, legislation was introduced that could have brought about this electoral reform. The Minister's argument that people would not want to vote is one that will not stand investigation on any ground at all. Of course there ought to be a uniform franchise for Australians, as he said, but whose fault is it that there is not? It is this Government's fault. It gives no lead. The Government wants public opinion to tell it where to go. I presume. Of course, everybody knows that it is a leaderless government. So unless there are demonstrations and wide clamour are we to take it that there will be no reform in respect of this matter? 
The Minister mentioned facts and figures associated with this reform, but there is no substance whatever in them because the Government has had 20 years to think of this. It has had at least 4 years since the Leader of the Opposition brought certain proposals to this Parliament. I do not think that any 18-year-olds in this country will accept the Government's putting it off now by saying that there is no time. As the Leader of the Opposition indicated, if the argument about compulsion is so great why not give them the option to vote and see whether they exercise it? That would be a reasonable test. I was not certain from the Minister's speech whether he was against the whole principle of 18-year-olds voting or only against the element of compulsion. I would like him to clear that up because it is very important. I would like him to explain also whether if it is made optional - even if we introduce another Bill to achieve that end - the Government will give its support. 
I believe that the case put forward by the Leader of the Opposition in the debate on previous Bills and today is one that is unanswerable in the minds of all democrats in this country. It is an endeavour to give to the people of Australia 18 years of age and over what is their right, namely, the opportunity to participate in the progress of our nation. Such legislation would bring Australia into line with other nations large and small, and would enable us to maintain our place as a leader in the democratic world. This is a great issue. It is a great democratic process. I think that the House should vote on it. 
I now formally move: 
That the question be now put. 
I support the opposition of members on this side of the chamber to clause 12 of the bill which provides for an increase of $4,400 to $16,250 in the salaries of commissioners. This is an increase of just on $84 a week. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  already have expressed what they believe to be the injustice in these proposals. If any Government deserves to be condemned for its wages policy it is that which sits in government in this country today. The Government expects workers to take the very minimum in income while it gives by way of an Increase to conciliation commissioners $32 a week more than the minimum wage paid to a worker in industry. In other words it is extending again its largesse to those people who have money. A strange thing about this Government is that it loves to look after the tall popies. While preaching wage restraint it likes to look after those who have. Not very long ago in this Parliament the Government increased judges' salaries by up to $6,000 per annum, taking salaries of some judges up to $30,000 in order to allow them to struggle along. Under this Government we find that for the salaries of top public servants, the judiciary and conciliation commissioners the sky is the limit. How does the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  or the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  justify a wage restraint policy when they say that the salaries of the commissioners have to be increased by $4,400 a year, back dated to last November - that is a gift of about $2,000 in a lump sum - when the poor old pensioner living miles below the poverty line cannot get an increase back dated for a week? We on this side of the Parliament have to forgo criticism of pension increases because the Government delays payment until such time as the legislation is passed through the House. 
We have an amazing situation. We have overpaid Ministers. We have overpaid judges. We will have overpaid conciliation commissioners. We have an overpaid Prime Minister. Fancy the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  saying that an increase of $2 a week to the workers is wage justice. As Prime Minister he gets $800 a week. A few months ago he refused to pass legislation increasing the salaries of members of Parliament unless he got $1,000 a week. Today, when he is asking workers to accept an increase of $2 a week, he gets $42 a day to sit in his house in Rose Bay, or wherever it is, because that amount is supposed to be paid to him while he is away from his home - the Lodge - as an allowance. They are the people who try to tell the people of this country what to do. We have an amazing situation in which conciliation commissioners are to be paid $6,750 a year more than parliamentarians. If the people of this country want an example of wage pegging, they need look only at the position of members of Parliament who are setting an inspiring example. We are told that conciliation commissioners have not had a salary increase for 4 years. Other people have not had one either. 
The Government's policy is irrational, unjust and discriminatory. It is a policy of more for those who have and less for those who are in need. The Prime Minister is in receipt of $800 a week plus a $42 a day allowance when he is in Sydney. He is living in the lap of luxury. Listen to what the paper that you can trust, 'The Daily Telegraph', had to say in a recent edition: 
The Prime Minister supports the $2 pay rise. 
What a generous fellow. What a good fellow. Lovely to say that, on a $42 a day allowance and an income of $800 a week. The article goes on: 
The Arbitration Commission's national wage case decision was responsible and would have long term benefits for the Australian community, the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  said yesterday. 
By exercising moderation the Commission has given the economy a real chance to make some headway against inflation, he said in Perth. 
What a generous statement from a man who would not take less than $1,000 a week to misrun the country in the way that he does today. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I ask the honourable member to relate his remarks to clause 12 which deals with the salaries of commissioners. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  you ask me to relate my remarks to clause 12. I ask you to relate how the Prime Minister expects a worker to take an increase of $2 a week while he will not take less than $1,000 a week. How am I not relating my remarks to the clause when I say that the commissioners to whom we are expected to grant salary increases of $4,400 a year think that an increase of only $2 a week is enough for the man on the minimum wage of $52 a week? That is scandalous, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh said. It is something that nobody should tolerate. It is almost time that we called a halt to the huge salaries being paid to the judiciary, to the top public servants and to other sections of society, and gave more to the people who really need it, such as those on $52 a week and others. 
I would like to hear the Minister for Labour and National Service justify the increase to commissioners. If the Government intends to increase the salaries of judges or commissioners, it will leave itself open to the charge, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh said, of trying to buy them off. What does a conciliation commissioner know about the wants and needs of a man earning $52 a week, if he is sitting back on $16,700 a year? What does he know about the starvation diets on which families have to live? The Government is placing the commissioners completely above the people on whose salaries they are adjudicating. In that way the Government's action is unjust. It is improper to do these things. That is why we on this side of the Parliament intend to oppose these proposals. If an example is to be set of wage justice and wage pegging and what the Government would call stability, the top level should be made to set this example. Does it not look farcical that, at the same time as the Government is asking workers to accept an increase of $2 a week and pensioners to accept a miserable increase of 75c a week, it is backdating for 4, 5 or 6 months a salary, increase of $84 a week to men who can well afford to live on the salaries that they are now receiving? Where is the justice in this? Where is the honesty? Where is the justice associated with wage payments in policies of this kind? This in itself is scandalous in the extreme and that  is  why we on this side of the Parliament will oppose this legislation. It is all very well for the Minister for Labour and National Service to say that such salary payments are necessary. 
I believe that those people who want these salaries increased, who expect workers to accept an increase of $2 a week and who are appointing men on huge salaries to adjudicate on salaries would spend as much on one night's entertainment as the minimum weekly wage that is paid to workers . in industry today. That is why members of the Opposition believe that it is time a halt was called to these things and .that something was done in respect tq them. It is all very well for the Minister for Labour and National Service and other honourable members opposite to say that we should pay these salaries but Ministers . are on exorbitant salaries compared to private members of this Parliament and other people. The trouble with this Government is that it has overpaid Ministers who are receiving exorbitant rates ^ while backbenchers do not receive as much is Qantas flight stewards. The Government is setting up throughout the Commonwealth people in highly paid positions to implement its policy which can mean only, increases of $2 a week to workers. 
These things will not bring wage justice to the community. They will not bring the tolerance and understanding that the Government wants to achieve under this Bill. If anything can defeat the purposes and intentions of this legislation, whatever they might be, it will be these huge salary increases which have been backdated several months and the establishment Qf precedents which, in any democracy, are dangerous in the extreme. So, I. join honourable members on this side of the House in condemning this legislation and .1 hope that this will be the last we will. see of legislation of this kind that provides, for such tremendous salary increases.- I , hope that this particular section of the BUI is rejected because, in every way, it is a .great discredit to the Government and everybody associated with it. , . 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say in what countries and states voting is compulsory in Parliamentary elections. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the United States of America has recently, imposed a limit on expenditure by candidates and public organisations in campaigns for the election of presidents, senators and members; if so, can he supply full details of this legislation. 

 - Mr Speaker, I do not wish to take up the time of the House. I just want to reply to the remarks of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who has given us the best example that I have seen of the need to have a change of government. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
As the Leader of the Opposition- 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
At first glance there appears to be substance in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  but when one considers what he intends to do to the Bill one must only support the attitude of the Labor Party spokesman on this issue. I speak quite impartially. I am a nonsmoker. So honourable members can see that on this issue I can speak as one who really believes in the health of the community. As honourable members look at my glowing health they will realise what smoking does to a lot of the Liberals we see as we sit opposite. Clause 3 of the Bill proposes to insert the following: 
After a date to be fixed by Proclamation, a licensee shall cause each advertisement for cigarettes or cigarette tobacco broadcast or televised from his station to be followed immediately, as provided by this section, by the following statement: 
The National Health and Medical Research Council warns that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health.' 
The honourable member for Isaacs wishes to delete those last words and insert the following words: 
The Australian Government warns smoking is a health hazard. 
Why the devil would any Australian take any notice of the present Liberal Party Government? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The suggested wording is: Medical authorities warn that smoking is a health hazard'. 
That is right, and the honourable member wishes to insert: The Australian Government warns smoking is a health hazard'. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- No. 
The amendment states: 
Omit 'The National Health and Medical Research Council warns that cigarette smoking  'a  dangerous to health', insert 'The Australian Government warns smoking is a health hazard'. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Yes. I have endeavoured to point out to the honourable member for Grayndler that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Isaacs is to insert the words: Medical authorities warn that smoking is a health hazard'. 
Are we not dealing with clause 3, page 2? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Yes, we are, but a new amendment has been circulated. The Postmaster-General did not proceed with his proposed amendment and the honourable member for Isaacs moved an amendment which has superseded the projected Government amendment. 
Of course, this Government changes its amendments like it changes its policies, so honourable members in this Parliament cannot be expected to keep up with it. I have long given up trying to keep up with the Government. Fortunately, nobody in the electorate can either, so the Government will not be here much longer. I support the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on this question. I think that the authorities named in the Bill are much more prestigious than those suggested by the honourable member and I see no reason why they should be changed. If this was such a good idea, why did the honourable member not put it up in his Party room? I think that in the Parliament tonight we are being asked to support a minority of one in the Liberal Party to change the structure of this Bill. Perhaps the honourable member for Isaacs will tell the Parliament whether he was courageous enough, in the face of that dominating Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  to move this amendment to the Bill in the Party room or whether he has brought it in here in a courageous display for his electorate of his independence in the Parliament of the country. I think that this is what one would call shadow sparring or limelighting in order to give the impression to his electorate that he is an independent person who will bring to this Parliament his views irrespective of what the Party thinks. 
So perhaps the honourable member for Isaacs will tell us whether he put this up in the Party room. Was it rejected or accepted? Did he have any support from his own? I think he must have had a seconder because even the Liberals would not accept an amendment without a seconder, would they? The point of issue is that we on this side of the Parliament are now being asked to support an amendment moved by a Liberal member, and we do not know whether anybody but himself voted for it in his own Party room. It is too much to expect the nation to follow that line of action. That is why we on this side of the Parliament, without any vindictiveness but as a matter of sheer practical politics, ask: If the honourable member had support for this amendment why was it not included in the Bill when it was brought to the Parliament? I think that the Australian people might well take note of the fact that Liberal legislation, great or small, is never debated in the Party room. It is brought in by Cabinet and introduced to this Parliament. The honourable member for Isaacs - honest as he is, brilliant as he is, bright as he is - is never even consulted about what is going to be brought into the Parliament. That is one reason why we on this side of the Parliament might reject this amendment tonight. 
The honourable member for Oxley has indicated that we cannot accept the amendment. I say quite bluntly that the authorities concerned in the Bill are much more representative and much more authoritative than those which the honourable member suggests. Despite the sleight of hand that has taken place in the changing of these amendments, regrettably we on this side of the Parliament must reject the amendment. No doubt the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme),  who is at the table, has his own ideas on this. All the Liberals have different ideas, and one just does not know whom to follow. On this occasion 1 do not think we will follow the honourable member for Isaacs. Therefore we reject the amendment. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many official overseas visits have been made by (a) Ministers and (b) office holders of the Parliament during the 27th Parliament. 
What were the names and designations of the persons accompanying each Minister and office holders. 
What was the (a) purpose, (b) length of visit and (c) total cost of each visit. 
On how many occasions was the wife of the Minister or office holder included in the delegation and what were the names of the persons concerned. 
What was the cost for the wife of those concerned on each occasion. 
What is the total cost of all these overseas visits during the 27th Parliament to date. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that he is anxious to avoid providing the information I sought concerning allowances to Assitant Ministers in questions Nos 5081 and 5082 which were placed on the Notice Paper on 24th February 1972; if not, will he provide the information without further delay. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 5081 which was placed on the Notice Paper on 24th February 1972. 
The honourable member for Riverina lost a lot of his time and I therefore move: 
That the honourable member for Riverina be granted an extension of time. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I second the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I think that his motive in moving it should bring to the attention of this Parliament that this must be gross contempt of the Parliament by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  It might well also be a breach of the Crimes Act by the Minister to place an embargo on a document and then have it released by a private member. It is known right throughout the length and breadth of this country that parliamentary procedure demands that when an embargo is placed on a document it must not be released until that period has elapsed. Yet the honourable member for Angas released to the Press at about 5.30 p.m. a document which this Parliament was preparing to debate at about 8.37 p.m. 
One cannot escape the conclusion that the honourable member was prepared to do this to take advantage of and take the glamour away from a Country Party Minister, because the Liberal Party is fighting the Australian Country Party tooth and nail from one end of Australia to the other. This was an attempt by the honourable member for Angas to take the credit for what has been done, irrespective of what was in the honourable member's statement. It is interesting to note that the information was released at S.30 p.m., before the close of trading in South Australia and Western Australia. Would it be that the honourable member for Angas wanted to put a few dollars in the coffers of certain people in whom he might be interested? Now you see the sinister implications of what he has done. Aha! It comes out. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What would be the cost in a full year, at present rates of taxation, of abolishing income tax on all weekly incomes of (a) $100 or less, (b) $101 to $150 and (c) $151 to $200. 
I direct a question to you,  Mr Speaker.  Is it a fact that a letter addressed to members of this Parliament by  Mr Gus  Petersilka concerning  Dr Germaine  Greer and the publication 'Playboy', andleft at the House for distribution were returned to the sender by the  Clerk,  at your direction, because they contained matter which it was believed some reci pients could consider objectionable? Is it also a fact that if the letters had been posted, no action would have been taken? If so, will you indicate to the House your reason for the censorship of letters addressed to members in this case and how you decided or ascertained that the matter may be or may not be objectionable? Furthermore, as the letters have now been posted and received by all honourable members, no doubt including yourself, do you consider that the letter should be brought to the attention of the Minister for Customs and Excise in order that he will be again reminded of the filthy literature being distributed and that many people in the community believe that it is time he took appropriate action to prevent its publication? 
I take up the time of the Committee for a few minutes only in order to correct some statements by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  in respect of the attitude of the Labor Party on this question. The Minister implied that the Labor Party was the only party opposing the legislation. I remind him that 3 Liberal senators, the Democratic Labor Party senators and the Independents in another place opposed the principles of this legislation. So effective was the Senate opposition that the Government withdrew a clause from the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill and accepted an amendment. I think that in order to put the record straight I should read what was said by  Senator Withers  - not exactly a militant radical I would say, but a member of the 
Liberal Party. At page 2197 of Hansard of 26th May 1972  Senator Withers,  speaking to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill in regard to the salaries of conciliation commissioners, said: 
I should just like to indicate that I, too, will not be supporting this clause. I believe that there is a responsibility on government to set an example in respect of wage increases. I have always supported the Prime Minister and the Treasurer in their calls for wage restraints. I think that it is necessary to get hold of inflation. I think that wage push has been a very important factor in inflation and I fail to see how the Government can be critical of the private sector of the economy when the Government, in many respects, with its own servants and officers has been one of the greatest offenders in this area. It is time Parliament called a halt to that. For far too long within the public sector the Government has been the pace setter. I think that the increases which have been handed out to public servants and servants of the Crown over the last couple of years have been too great. As I said, it is time to call a halt. There is no need to say anything further, but I indicate that I will not support clause 12. 
This clause concerned statutory officers - conciliation commissioners. Even the Democratic Labor Party members were roused from their reverie.  Senator Little  said: 
I wish to indicate that the Australian Democatic Labor Party will not support clause 12. 
Another distinguished Liberal senator, at least one of the brighter ones,  Senator Laucke,  of South Australia, said: 
I wish briefly to express my opposition to this clause. 

 Senator Laucke showed common sense on this occasion. He went on: 
I  believe that it is absolutely essential that inflationary pressures in our economy be countered. There is an imbalance in our wage structure generally which I think is unhealthy and unfair, with big percentage increases being granted to people in the high salary bracket. They are receiving increments far beyond those to which they are justly entitled. At the other end of the scale wage increases could well be considered in the interests of facilitating and providing decent living standards for the whole community.  That  is  what the Labor Party is  saying - We should be prepared to go further than pay lip service to an attitude of opposition to the pressures within our economy to which I have referred, and really get down to tin tacks and in practical ways ensure a better balance of productivity with wage increases. 
I know that we cannot have complete paralleling of lines at that point, but I object to a situation - the expression 'pacesetter' has been used this afternoon - in which increments to people in Federal circles set a pace for other areas of governmental administration which have an impact  in the private sector. An imbalance is created and a fair thing overall is not achieved. For those reasons 1 will not be subscribing to the clause in its present form, 
I think that completely explodes the arguments put forward by the Leader of the House in this place when he said that the Labor Party is responsible for the complete defeat of this legislation. Thank heavens we have found a couple of Liberals who are fair and sincere on this issue. They have seen the injustice of the proposals being put forward at a time when low wage earners, particularly those in the low income group in the Public Service, are not receiving justice. I hope that the Minister takes notice of what I have said because he is condemned, not so much by the Labor Party on this occasion but by members of his own Party who sit in another place tonight waiting for this legislation to come before them so that they can reject it as they rejected the clause to which I referred in the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. 
I second the amendment. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has outlined clearly the history of this legislation. Let me reiterate it and say that it provides for increased salaries for certain statutory office holders. As the Leader of the Opposition has stated, an amendment covering this legislation was carried in the Senate in 1971. Now the Government proposes to go through the sham of presenting to this Parliament legislation which it knows will not be supported in another place. What is more, the Government is on this occasion making the legislation covering the statutory office holders retrospective to 4th November 1971. Retrospectivity in legislation has been opposed vigorously by this Government from time to time. Many a time in this Parliament the Opposotion has moved that increases of pensions be backdated to 1st July, and just as adamantly the Government has lined up and voted against a 50c pension increase being backdated. Today it is seeking to backdate increases of $84 a week, giving to the occupants of those positions $2,000 in a bonus - a total under this legislation of about $80,000 or $90,000. And this is the Government that refuses to backdate increases of a miserable 50c a week in pensions. 
In addition, to make certain that these statutory office holders are in line with the workers to whom was granted a $2 a week increase in the national wage case, they are to receive not only increased benefits at the rate of $84 a week, or $4,400 per annum but also are to be given $104 a year, backdated to the effective date, 1st June 1972. I hope that when legislation in respect of social welfare benefits is before this Parliament the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  will remind his colleagues that those who can well afford to put up with the hardship of living on the salaries that they receive today are being granted huge increases which are to be backdated. Everybody knows that this legislation is doomed in another place.  Senator Withers, Senator Laucke  and another Liberal senator have announced that they will not support it in that chamber, so why has the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  brought it into this Parliament tonight? As a matter of fact, it is just sham fighting, because the Government knows full well that it cannot be passed and is endeavouring to curry favour with the public servants and Public Service organisations by saying that Labor is stopping their salary increases. As the Leader of the Opposition said, nothing is further from the truth. The Liberal senators in another place whom I have mentioned know that that is not the case because, for the same reasons as the Australian Labor Party, they will vote against these proposals. 
We believe that the increases are given to some who might well carry on with the salaries they are getting while others, much in need of them, are denied them. I refer to the middle section of the Public Service. Let us look at the struggling people we are assisting tonight under this Government that practises wage restraint. The salary of the  Chairman  of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education goes from $18,973 to $22,012, the  Deputy Chairman  of the Australian Universities Commission goes from $16,528 to $19,148, the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board goes from $17,947 to $20,810, the full time Member (other than the  Chairman)  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board goes from $15,370 to $17,792, the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation goes from $14,727 to $17,043, the  Chairman  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission goes from about $17,000 to $19,000, the Senior Commissioners go from about $12,000 to $17,000- all backdated to 4th November. The salary of the Director of the Australian Institute of Criminology goes from $15,370 to $17,792, the Commissioner of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation goes from about $17,000 to about $20,000; and so it goes on right down the line of these office holders. 
Is it any wonder that even the Liberals in another place - hard to move as they are - have rebelled against this legislation? That is why the Labor Party has moved the amendment. It knows full well that the legislation is unjustified at this time of wage restraint. Every day the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been telling us that there has to be wage restraint. Do honourable members remember what he said when the Arbitration Commission gave workers a $2 pay rise? He said: 
The  Aribtration  Commission's national wage case decision was responsible and would have long term benefits for the Australian community. By exercising moderation the Commission has given the economy a real chance to make some headway against inflation. 
To prove his sincerity he is increasing the salaries of office holders by huge amounts, at the same time adding that $2 a week to the salaries of those people. 
If the Government is fair dinkum on this issue and not sham fighting, why does it not bring forward the Salaries Adjustment Bill 1971 which has been on the notice paper since 8th December 1971? I will tell honourable members why. It is because the increases that I have mentioned fade into insignificance beside those in the Salaries Adjustment Bill where salaries rise from $22,000 to $29,250. In other words, they go up $6,000 and $7,000 per annum. This is the Government that is preaching wage restraint that has brought this Bill before the Parliament and criticises the Labor Party for opposing it. As you know,  Mr Speaker,  the Government realises that at this time this measure is a complete contradiction of its stated policy of wage restraint It has intervened in every wage case in order to stop wage increases. In the national wage case the Government went to the court and said that workers were not entitled to increases in wages because increases were causing inflation. The waterside workers have just received a 35-hour week and certain wage increases by negotiation. The present Government has announced that it will intervene and upset the agreement if it possibly can when it comes before the court for ratification. 
In other words, there is one law for those who have very little to live on, whether they be public servants or others, and there is another law for those who have the influence, the power and the money to carry on and make ends meet. The Labor Party believes that increases, in the Public Service and in other places, should go to those that need them. If it is good enough for people who have families to keep and who have to do so on $52 a week, to receive a $2 a week increase it is good enough for the tall poppies to make their contribution by taking significantly less at a time of wage restraint. The introduction of this legislation is scandalous in the extreme. That is why we on this side of the Parliament reject it and have moved the amendment. 
It would be bad enough if that was all the increase that was given, but every one of these office holders under the legislation that the Government wants to have passed receives travelling expenses. They have the use of aeroplanes and Commonwealth cars and they have national superannuation schemes. These are the people to whom the Government is toadying. Is it not tragic that at the expense of the vast majority of public servants and others a small section of the community is receiving huge increases running into thousands of dollars per annum. What is given in increases to judges amounts to $6,000, $7,000 and $8,000 a year extra each time. When 64 per cent of the work force receive less than the average weekly earnings of about $90 a week some people are receiving increases of between $20 to $80 a week. When the men who fix the wages are to be given increases of $4,400 or $84 a week and some workers who come before them get only $2, is it any wonder that public opinion is turning against this Government for its wage restraint against not those who have money but those who really need it in the lower income group. 
How do honourable members opposite justify the increases that they are suggesting at a time of wage restraint? Every speech made by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in this Parliament tells the people of Australia that wages are causing inflation. We on this side of the Parliament are expected to take this point of view, we are told, because it is in the national interest. Did you ever hear of anything more hypocritical than the Prime Minister coming to this Parliament and telling the nation that we had to have wage restraint, that recommended salary increases from $9,500 a year for members of this Parliament were to be reduced by 26 per cent because the nation could not afford to pay them, and the next day bringing in legislation giving increases of $6,000 to $7,000 a year to public servants. Not one cent was taken off. I think that is complete hypocrisy. 
The people deserve the government they get. They have a Ministry that is overpaid and they have back bench members not worth as much as Qantas flight stewards. If the Government has that kind of supporters the people of this country deserve the government that they have. But why does the Government recommend percentage reductions on one side and the next minute say that public servants and others who are getting $22,000 to $29,000 a year must make no contribution whatever? This is a phony government; it is not sincere. The people it wants to see get the incomes in this country are those in the $20,000 to $30,000 wage group. Those on $52 to $60 or $70 a week who are struggling to keep body and soul together are given nothing by this Government because the Government believes they are entitled to only $2 a week. I wonder what the pensioners must think - pensioners who received miserable increase of 50c and 75c a week from this Government. 
A pensioner is expected to live on $18.25 a week when the Government is giving a $84 a week increase to people now getting about $12,500 or $13,000 per annum. What must pensioners in the community think when judges are given $6,000 and $7,000 a year increase by the Government, when public servants' salaries are to be increased by up to $7,000 and when this will take them not to $10,000 or $11,000 per annum but to $29,000 and $30,000 in some instances? When the maximum wage is about $52 a week, is it not scandalous to think that the Government will bring in legislation of this kind? So far as I know the address of the Prime Minister is the Lodge. When he goes home to sleep, eat, work, talk and enjoy his family life at his home in Bellevue Hill they give him $42 a day to sit there. Here is a Government that at this stage is asking workers to take $2 while the Prime Minister gets about $290 a week to be at home each day of the week - by way of travelling expenses alone. The Prime Minister came in and said that he would not take a salary increase unless it gave him $1,000 a week. He would be dear at a quarter of that price. Yet, today we are told $2 a week is plenty for some people to have. The salary of the Treasurer of this country, who preaches constantly in this Parliament on wage restraint, some time ago was recommended to be $34,650 and he would not take a penny less. When we rejected that proposal in the interests of justice and as a contribution to the economy and the stability of nation, he said: 'Unless I get the $34,650 I will not support the legislation'. These are the people who speak of wage restraint today and who ask the workers to take less. 
When we on this side of the Parliament oppose this legislation honourable members opposite say that we are stopping public servants from getting the flow-on. Nothing is further from the truth. What the Labor Party objects to is that a small select group in the Public Service is getting all of the benefits from this Government - the conciliation commissioners and others - while a huge number of public servants at lower levels are refused increases in keeping with what they should get to keep body and soul together. We on this side of the Parliament realise that large sections of the community - 64 per cent was mentioned by me a moment ago - exist on levels below the average income and they in turn can get only $2 a week when their case goes before the national wage fixing authority. To make it worse, this Government goes in and says: They are not entitled to more'. Is it any wonder that the people are fed up with the Government and believe that we are right on this side of the Parliament in opposing this legislation. 
I do not want to detain the House long and I do not want to re-hash what has been said again and again. This legislation has been debated so often that everybody almost knows it off by heart. But' the Government has proved that it is sham fighting by bringing this matter in, again, knowing full well that it cannot pass its own members in the other place; knowing full well that sections of this legislation have been amended in. another place and if consistency counts the legislation cannot possibly pass through that place. It knows full well also that it must try to get it through because it has put the Conciliaion Commissioners' increases not only in this legislation but also in the Conciliation and Arbitration. Bill. The Government missed on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill but has brought these increases back under the statutory offices legislation. That is a subterfuge which everybody in. this Parliament should realise is being put over by this Government in an endeavour to compromise the Opposition or to put this matter forward on a take it or leave.it basis. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I hope it will be carried in this place. Whether it is carried or not I know full well that across the hall the amendment will be carried by the members of that place who realise the value of the arguments put up by this side of the Parliament. I just say to the Government that it is nearly time that it woke up; it is nearly time that it gave wage justice to everyone in the community from the lowest to the highest. But if the Government extends its patronage at the expense of those who want it, it cannot expect the people on this side of the Parliament to support it because our policy is to support those in need and to give to them the money necessary to maintain their families in security and happiness in this age of inflation under Liberal-Country Party governments. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent Order of the Day No. 11, Government business, for the consideration of the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1971 being called on forthwith and having precedence until disposed of. 
When this motion is agreed to I will move similar motions in respect of the Senate Elections Bill 1971 and the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Bill 1971. On 31st March 1971 - exactly 14 months ago today - the Minister for the Interior  (Mr 
Hunt) introduced the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1971 and 2 complementary Bills, namely, the Senate Elections Bill 1971 and the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Bill 1971. These Bills still remain on the business paper and no effort has been made by the Government to proceed with the debate on them. 
Another Bill, the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1971 (No. 2), which I introduced on behalf of the Opposition on 1st April 1971, still remains undebated on the notice paper. As there is little chance of the Government supporting a motion to debate the Opposition's Bill, I move this motion in the hope that the Government, or at least the Liberal Party, will support the motion to debate its own legislation. In the course of his second reading speech the Minister stated that the purpose of the Bill was to effect changes in the Commonwealth Electoral Act to improve voting facilities for electors. He further stated that a review of the Commonwealth Electoral Act and regulations had been in progress prior to the 1969 House of Representatives elections, and that the proposed amendments incorporated in the Bill were the result of that inquiry. 
This Bill is a product of investigations which commenced prior to the 1969 elections - more than 3 years ago - and after lengthy investigation and preparation it was introduced 14 months ago, yet the Government, for some mysterious reason, will not proceed with the debate. It is a most important Bill affecting the democratic processes in Australia. It must be assumed that the Government approved of the Bill and was ready to proceed with it at the time of its introduction. Why then the delay? This is the reason I am moving this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. If the legislation is not debated today it will not be debated for some months - until the Budget session - or probably not at all. The Opposition considers that it has a responsibility in seeking to have this Bill debated, amended and enacted prior to the coming Federal elections. We will be happy to assist the Government to debate its own legislation and, at the same time, we will seek to move appropriate amendments in line with Labor Party policy and with the needs of the nation. 
What sinister reason prevents the Government from allowing the Parliament to debate this important Bill? 1 suggest a few reasons for the delay. They are the reasons which have prompted me to move this motion. At about the time of the introduction of the Bill, fierce jungle warfare broke out in the Queensland State Parliament between members of the Liberal Party and members of the Country Party over the gerrymandering of electoral boundaries. It produced unprecedented scenes and events in the Queensland Parliament, even carrying to this chamber. The Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter),  speaking of certain Liberals who crossed the floor to vote against the Country Party's greatest gerrymander of all time, spoke in these terms: 
Traitors walked across the floor of Parliament in Queensland. 
 Mr 
Speaker, I want to deal with the record of the Government over the last 2 years. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 6.6 p.m. to a date and hour to be fixed by  Mr Speaker 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 4941 which was placed on the Notice Paper on 9th December 1971. 
asked the  Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What has been the cost to date of our involvement in the war in Vietnam. 
What is the estimated total expenditure. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by  Dr W.  Lopez of the New South Wales Health Department that two-thirds of the cases of typhoid fever occurring in Australia was among migrants and that until recently the disease was almost unknown among Australians. 
Will the Minister state how many cases of typhoid occurred in Australia in each of the last 5 years and how many of those affected were (a) migrants and (b) residents of Australia. 
Will the Minister also state what precautions are taken to prevent the introduction of this disease into Australia by visitors and migrants. 
asked the Minister for Immigra tion, upon notice: 
What are the conditions under which: 
persons of non-European origin and 
persons of mixed descent resident in Australia, may nominate relatives or dependants for permanent residence in Australia, 
(a) How many in each of these categories have been admitted in each of the last five years and (b) How many relatives were admitted in this period? 
What was the country of origin of those admitted in each category? 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many applications have been made by: 
persons of non-European descent; and 
persons of mixed descent, resident in Australia for the admission of relatives or dependants in each of the last 5 years? 
How many of these applications have been: 
approved; and 
rejected? 
What was the country of origin of those seeking admission in each category,? 
asked the Minister. for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many persons of: 
non-European; and 
mixed descent, have been admitted to Australia for permanent residence under the present terms and conditions of entry and how many relatives or dependants were accepted in each case in each year since 1966? 
What were the countries of origin in each case? 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Are limitations at present imposed on the nomination of relatives and dependants for residence in Australia by persons of: 
non-European descent; and 
mixed descent? 
Will  he  provide an estimate  of  how many persons of: 
non-European descent; and 
mixed descent would  be  eligible for admittance  to  Australia  in  the entry  of  relatives and dependants in each category were widened  to  include all brothers and  any  one year if the present conditions covering sisters, parents, cousins, aunts and uncles and other relatives  of  persons  of  similar origins  at  present residents  in  Australia? 
What  would be: 
the  total  estimated intake under these con ditions; and 
the estimated intake from each country from which it is anticipated these persons would come? 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 wish to take advantage of one of the few opportunities left to me to say a few words of criticism against this departing Government. I want to deal tonight with the secrecy that this Government exhibits in regard to the activities of its members which involve public expenditure, and also to place on record what I believe is contempt of Parliament on the part of Government members, particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  in their failure to reveal to the Parliament certain essential details of expenditure incurred during their term of office. On 9th December 1971 I placed a question on the notice paper. 1 asked the Prime Minister: 
How many official overseas visits have been made by (a) Ministers and (b) office holders of the Parliament during the 27th Parliament. 
What were the names and designations of the persons accompanying each Minister and office holder. 
What was the (a) purpose, (b) length of visit and (c) total cost of each visit. 
On how many occasions was the wife of the Minister  or  office holder included in the delegation and what were the names of the persons concerned. 
What was the cost for the wife of those concerned on each occasion. 
What is the total cost of all these overseas visits during the 27th Parliament to date. 
The Prime Minister subsequently answered in this way: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) Between the commencement of the 27th Parliament on 23th November 1969 and 21st April 1972 - a period of 2 years and 5 months - there has been a total of 72 overseas visits by Ministers (44 of these accompanied by wives)- 
They certainly decided that they would not be lonely on the trip - and 7 by office holders of the Parliament (5 of these accompanied by wives). 
They also were going to have all home comforts. The reply continued: 
So far as Ministers' visits are concerned, it is the practice to announce details of each visit at the time in Parliament or, if Parliament is not sitting, by means of Press statements. 
Information on each individual visit over the past two and a half years is not centrally recorded in the form required by the honourable member's question. To compile it would be a substantial task and I am reluctant- 
I should think he would be reluctant - to authorise the administrative effort that would be involved. 
Costs incurred on ministerial visits and visits by office holders of the Parliament during this financial year will be shown in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1972-73; costs in relation to earlier visits have already been published in the relevant Appropriation Bills. 
I consider that that answer represents complete contempt of Parliament. In other words, the Government refuses to reveal to this Parliament the costs which have been incurred in sending its Ministers around the world. Honourable members who seek this information can ascertain it only once a year, when the Appropriation Bill is prepresented to the House. They are then expected to wade through the Bill to find out in detail the amounts that have been expended. Honourable members on this side of the chamber have no staff or facilities but are expected to delve through all these papers to calculate the aggregate sum. The Prime Minister, with a personal staff costing over $100,000 a year, has refused to give this information to Parliament. Is there a sinister reason behind his refusal? I think there is. 
Why were the wives of all the Ministers taken abroad? What was the cost involved? Was the cost of their entertainment and their other expenses paid for by us? Is it desired to hide this fact from the public gaze? If not, why has it not been revealed in this answer? Why should the Minister be reluctant to authorise his officers to give details of this public expenditure?I advise the Prime Minister tonight that when the Estimates are debated I will again ask for this information to be given to me. I do not have the staff, the secretarial assistance and research facilities available to me to go through all these documents. I expect the Prime Minister and his staff costing $100,000 a year to be able to spend a little time on this matter. 
I will tell honourable members another reason why the Minister did not want to reveal this information. I have asked a similar question. I asked how many visits abroad have been made by departmental officers in each year since the commencement of the Twenty-Seventh Parliament. I asked for similar information about officials. The Prime Minister replied: 
An answer giving much of the information requested by the honourable member was provided by the Treasurer in reply to Senate Question No. 990 (Hansard 22 February 1972, page 22). , 
He went on to give me, almost chapter and verse, the answer that he had given to me regarding ministerial trips. I turned up that question and answer of 22nd February 1972, containing details of trips abroad by public servants. In 1968-69, 1,172 officers travelled abroad at a cost of $2,214,597. In 1969-70, 1,224 officers went abroad at a cost of $2,481,103. In 1970-71, 1,297 officers went abroad at a cost of $2,673,905. The total number of officers travelling abroad in the 3 years to February 1972 was 3,693 and the cost has been $7,369,605. Those figures relate to the second level of the Parliament, as it were. They relate to the public servants. What must the trips of Ministers have cost? 
I believe that the cost of the visits of Ministers to overseas countries would be between $20m and $40m. The Government will not reveal those figures, knowing full well that if they travelled at only the cost of trips of public servants it would be a minimum of $7.5m. But we all know that the present Ministers travel extravagantly and get all the best of everything. Probably they are hiding from the public gaze expenditure of between $30m and $40m. Some people may say that mine is an extravagant estimate, but if I am not told the facts am I not entitled to estimate what the cost would be? 
This information should be revealed to the Parliament. The figures show that 652 officers of the Department of Air travelled abroad in that period. They are certainly using the air extensively. Their visits cost about $622,000.  of  the Department of the Army, 564 members have gone abroad in the last 3 years at a cost of almost Sim. In the Department of Civil Aviation 259 officers have made overseas trips at a cost of about $530,000. In that period about $7-5m has been spent on public servants travelling abroad. Is it any wonder that the Prime Minister will not give information regarding the costs of the travels of Ministers, their wives and people associated with them? It is because he knows that it will be a public scandal when the wastage of funds is exposed. 
We would not mind the expenditure on the travelling of Ministers if they learned anything when they went away, but everybody knows that they are dumber than ever when they come back. The state of the economy today proves that no matter if they spent only $7. 5m almost every dollar has been wasted, judging by the effort they have put in. What I place on record tonight is my concern for the contempt which is being shown to the Parliament by the Prime Minister who refuses to reveal this information. In every other Parliament with which I have been associated over the years, when such questions have been asked they have always, with the exception of the present Prime Minister's period of office, received a reply containing the information desired. That is why tonight I say that there must be some reason why the Government will not reveal the information. I believe it is probably because the wives of Ministers, public servants and other persons have been given extravagant trips at the taxpayers' expense. 
The Government refuses to reveal this information because it knows it cannot justify such expenditure under any circumstances. I simply advise members of the Government, particularly the Prime Minister, who I understand is in a state of ecstasy for the first time for months, that they will be brought right back to the ground later because we will seek an explanation during the debate on the Estimates. I suggest to the Prime Minister that he might do better to spend a few more million dollars on those in the community who need it rather than spend this money on Ministers, their wives and others, and then refuse to reveal that information to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say what countries impose a limit on expenditure by candidates or organisations in respect of Parliamentary elections. 
If so, what are the details of (a) maximum expenditure;(b) method of enforcement; (c) penalty imposed for infringement in each case. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the Australian people are waiting impatiently for a change of government? If so, what is the reason for the delay in announcing the date of the election? Is it because of his personal low popularity polls or the grim prospects of inevitable political disaster and doom? In any case, when will  he  announce to the House and the nation the day of political judgment for his Government, namely, the date of the Federal election? 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I bring up the Committee's report on proposals for variations of the plan of the layout of the City of Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory as gazetted in 1925 - the 50th series of variations. I ask for the leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Hindmarsh making a statement, limited to 10 minutes, on a subject of national importance. 
All right. 
I support the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  in opposing this motion. Both the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in stating their reasons for this move indicated that it is the genera] practice. As I interjected a moment ago, these are changing times and the precedents of the past, so well established, have been forgotten by this generation. The Minister himself knows that in the portfolio that he represents revolutionary changes are taking place, so why are we in this place to be called upon to go back to the days of  Sir Eric  Harrison and others. I hope the honourable member for Moreton will excuse me if I say that I think he has a vested interest in supporting this motion because the sooner this Parliament closes down the sooner he can get back to his small debts legal practice in the city of Brisbane. I hope I am not doing him an injustice in saying that. 
The situation is that each time this motion is moved the reasons given are the need for the Budget to take precedence, the time required for the debate, and the fact that there are a number of Bills to be dealt with. The Minister mentioned that there are 37 Bills to come up and 7 or 8 weeks of Budget discussion to take place. Consequently, those who must suffer are not the Ministers, not those people in power in this place, but the ordinary private member who constantly sees whittled away in this Parliament every right that he has and which he has fought for over the years. We find, for instance, if I may make passing reference, that as private members in this Parliament we are allowed to ask one question every 3 or 4 weeks, and now we are asked to curtail our discussions. In addition to that, the Minister himself knows that in the early days he started to act almost like a tyrant in regard to the few fleeting moments that private members were allowed to speak on the adjournment debate. In the course of the Budget discussion not every private mem.ber will have the opportunity to speak on the multiplicity of things important to his electorate. The only opportunity that private members have to raise these matters is on days when general business is discussed, when we can bring to the notice of the people matters of importance. 
In this election year the Minister not only wants to sweep aside the rights of private members but also wants to prevent a discussion of matters that are of terrific importance. For instance, the site of the new Parliament House was to have been discussed tomorrow when general business was called on, but this matter will not be debated tomorrow. On page 14940 of the notice paper under the heading 'General Business' there are 12 items to be discussed which have been presented by members of the Parliament. There is even one in the name of the honourable member for Moreton. I do not think we will bother discussing that because the honourable member evidently does not care whether it is ever discussed. With the exception of that item there are listed about a dozen items of vital importance to private members of this Parliament and to the nation. Those matters will go into the limbo of the forgotten under the proposal of the Minister. They will never be discussed because Parliament will be prorogued and they will disappear from the notice paper. This is a snide, clever and sinister way for the Government to get rid of some very important matters in relation to which it would be subject to criticism. These are matters which private members cannot deal with in any other way. I do not accept the reasons given by the Minister for putting off these matters. Why could we not sit during the first week of recess if 3 or 4 extra days are required? Why could consideration not be given to that aspect? 
I remember when I first came to this Parliament, which is a long time ago. I think many honourable members would now shudder at the thought, but we sat from the middle of February to the end of November without suspending the Parliament at all. Of course, they were the days of a Labor Government; they were the days when we really worked, when the people knew that the country was being run and when Ministers were at their places in the Parliament. We did not do the things that are done here today such as depriving private members of their rights. As the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  knows he had more opportunities to speak then than he has had in government in this place. So I register my objection to what has been done. I do not wish to take up further the time of the House. I think the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition put a first class case from this side of the Parliament. If we did not oppose every move to whittle down the rights of private members we would be giving away rights that will never be recovered. People will see a really stimulating change when Labor comes to office in a couple of months. People will be allowed to express their views freely and independently and honourable members will be able to put their points of view in the Parliament. The suppression that exists under this tired and decadent old administration will go by the board because the Labor Party will give to private members the rights to which they are entitled. 
So I place on record my opposition to this infringement of the rights of private members. 1 would like to see the honourable member for Mallee rise in his place and speak vehemently in defence of the rights of private members, as he constantly was doing so vehemently when he sat on this side of the chamber. Everybody knows that the honourable member was a roaring lion when he sat on this side of the House but he is as quiet as a rabbit suffering from myxomatosis now that he is sitting on the Government side of the Parliament. I register my opposition to the proposal of the Minister and I hope that he will see the light of day and start on a high note by withdrawing the motion and giving to private members the right to express their point of view. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice:  (1)Is the management committee of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia composed mainly of medical practitioners. 
Does the M.B.F. of Australia pay a fund benefit of $8.25 to the patients of medical practitioners for the testing of eyes and the supply of spectacles. 
Does the fund refuse to pay benefits of any sort to the patients of optometrists for what are essentially the same services; if so, why are the patients of optometrists who pay the same contributions to the fund as the patients of medical practitioners discriminated against. 
What action is proposed by the Minister to remove this discrimination. 
I support the amendment. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  who has just spoken in this debate is one of those members of the Government Parties with a quaint title. He is the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation. He is one of those mysterious and ghost like figures elected exclusively to boost the numbers of votes for the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon in the party room. If anybody wonders why the Government is in trouble he has only to look at the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation. Everybody knows that the Minister for Civil Aviation (Senator Cotton)  wants assistance but he has certainly got a liability. 
The honourable member for Boothby asked me to say where the Labor Party will get the money to fulfil its promises to the Australian people. A fair question deserves a fair answer. I tell him that we will get the money from the same source as the Government is getting it in an attempt to fulfil the promises and undertakings given in the Budgets and to abolish the means test we will get the money from precisely the same place as the present Government will get it to abolish the means test within 3 years. I hope that answer is satisfactory to the honourable member. That source has been tapped by the Government and therefore it must be available to the Opposition. I think that should answer satisfactorily the honourable member's question. Anybody who was in the Parliament on 15th August must have wondered whether he was at an Eastern bazaar, so much was being given away. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  an nounced a Budget with an expenditure of Sl0,078m and a deficit of about $730m, and the Budget was introduced in an election year. What a contrast this Budget is to that of last year when a gloomy Treasurer told with foreboding of the inability of the Government to do anything for the poor suffering sections of the community. But this year, there is to be an election and so the sky is the limit. The Liberals took the hat off. They found money that they said was never available before and they produced for all to see a bonanza unequalled, so we have been told, in our time. I say to the Australian people that if they want anything out of a Liberal-Country Party government they should make sure that they have an election every year for the simple reason that the only time the public gets anything from the Government is in an election year. 
Let honourable members listen to what the Government gave us in this Budget. The Government gave something for all - you name it, you got it. The Budget will provide for taxation reductions, pension increases, social services, the lifting of the means test, housing, health, education, child welfare, estate duty, Aborigines, defence, shipping, airlines, gift duty, nursing homes, special grants and fares for the unemployed. Not a thing was lost. The Government would have said to a Labor Party proposing these benefits: 'Where will you get the money?' We say that we would have got it from the same source as the Government has used to produce this bonanza. 
Nobody has been forgotten in the Budget. Even that quaint organisation known as the National Council of Women will receive $5,500. That organisation was formed in 1896 and it has taken the Liberal Party 76 years to find it. So, the Liberal Party is moving along. Because of this budget bonanza 76 years after the establishment of this organisation, those dear old ladies must today be weeping tears of joy because the Government has found them. I believe that the motto of the Victorian branch of this organisation is the golden rule: 'Do unto others as ye would that they should do unto you'. So, we must expect those dear ladies to return the compliment after 76 years and vote for the hapless Liberals. 1 would not have raised what I am about to raise had the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  not raised it. I do not like to hear people speaking of disunity in Liberal parties and, particularly, in government parties, but, as the honourable member for Boothby raised it, I think I should make passing reference to what is happening in the ranks of this once great Party and show how today the disunity is not on the Opposition side but amongst those who sit on the Government side. We know that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is facing imminent political doom. He will not have to wait for the people outside this Parliament to do it; there are a couple of dozen honourable members sitting on the other side with knives a foot long, waiting for him to fall over. They would stab him politically at the drop of a hat. We know that the Government fears that it is doomed. We know that the prestige of the Prime Minister is at an all time low. The gallup polls showed his popularity to be below that even of the former Prime Minister of Japan who at least had the decency to resign when he fell that far down the scale. Members of the Press, radio and television continually point to the disunity in Government ranks and the eternal dissension of the Parliamentary parties. The honourable member for Boothby spoke about the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  yet a GetGortonBack committee has been formed. An article in the 'Australian' of 6th December 1971 is headed: 'Voters want Gorton back as PM, supporters claim'. There are quite a few of his supporters in the parliamentary Liberal Party at this stage. The article states: 
Supporters of the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  outnumber  Mr McMahon's  by almost 6 to 1- 
I think that they have underestimated; I think it is 10 to 1-  according to trends in a Get-Gorton-Back opinion poll conducted at the weekend. 
The Get-Gorton-Back committee claims to have knocked on more than SOO doors in the Melbourne electorate of Casey, to test public opinion of the merits of  Mr Gorton  and  Mr McMahon.  The committee  president, Mr Peter  Buff, said that with about 100 'postal votes' still to come,  Mr Gorton  had captured about 70 per cent of the vote'. 
I wonder what the honourable member for Morton  (Mr Killen)  would say to that. I think that he would be one of the 70 per cent. The members of the Australian Country Party have no illusions about the Prime Minister. Let us have a look at what they think of him. An advertisement placed in the 'Courier-Mair of 25th May this year states: 
While Australia searches fora leader Queensland has found Joh. Bjelke-Petersen; that's why the 70s belong to Queensland. 
This is  the great stalwart Party in this nation which is supposed to be right behind its leaders. They are . eating out of each other's hands, right up. to the elbow. There is no doubt about that. This is the Party that talks about unity- and dissension. .:(. 
A couple of days ago, the former lecturer at Melbourne's Monash1 University, the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  went on television to say that it is still not too late to change the Liberal leader if. events decide that that should be done. He was supported by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr. Jess)  who also said that, they could change the Prime Minister, if necessary; ,We all know that the honourable member for Morton has never hidden the-, fact that the Government is- Carrying a political lightweight and that even he could do a better job. This is the situation hi respect to the parliamentary Liberal Party. Honourable members opposite talk about disunity on this side of the Parliament. In Tasmania recently the Tasmanian Executive of the Liberal Party failed by only one vote - I think a Liberal walked out and was not game to vote - to pass a resolution demanding on the eve of the Federal election the resignation of the Prime Minister. This is jungle warfare of a kind unknown on this side of the Parliament. This type of thing is unknown in the Australian Labor Party. Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that the poor little Prime Minister with family worries and everything else walks in fear and trepidation of political annihilation by the very member amongst others on the other side of the Parliament- 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capita] Territory I present the Committee's report on outstanding items 11 and 13 of the 49th series of variations to the plan of the layout of the city of Canberra. I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I second the motion. I will be brief since it is unnecessary for me to go over the ground as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has pointed out the urgency of debating item No. 18 on the notice paper and has given reasons why it should be debated. It is interesting that this Bill has been on the notice paper for 4 months. It seeks to give the right to vote to men and women citizens of 18, 19 and 20 years of age. The Bill should be debated immediately not only because of its urgency with the impending elections but also because it involves 600,000 to 700,000 citizens who are being denied their franchise - a franchise accepted already in 37 countries and supported in Australia by State Liberal governments and even by some members of the Parties which sit opposite in this House and the other chamber. For some reason or other the Government desires to evade debating this important issue as well as any legislation appertaining to electoral reform. Without in any way indicating or misconstruing the Government's intentions, I have a shrewd idea that the Australian Country Party is very touchy on important questions relating to electoral reform. As the Leader of the Opposition has shown, the notice paper is cluttered with several Bills not only on this issue but also on other matters of electoral reform which the Government refuses to debate. 
This matter must be debated independently because the Government will not bring forward other legislation on electoral reform which would pemit members of the Opposition to move appropriate amendments to provide votes for 18-year-olds. We cannot amend the legislation introduced by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  because it has remained on the notice paper since 31st March 1971. In the 17 or 18 months since its introduction we have had no chance to move an amendment. Subsequently I introduced legislation on behalf of the Opposition which would have enabled members to express their views on this point but that Bill has remained on the notice paper since 1st April 1971. When is this issue to be debated? Why will the Government not bring the legislation forward? Surely this is not a matter which should be political. Many of those who are denied a vote are engaged in the armed forces and have been called upon to fight. If they are denied this fundamental right to the franchise, it is something which is unforgivable, I believe, in the minds of the Australian people. 
I can see no reason why we should not debate this matter immediately. Let us express our views and give effect to the necessary reforms whereby the vote may be available immediately to those 18-year olds in the electorate. This can be done, as the Leader of the Opposition stated. It is not a question of delaying it because it cannot be implemented. It certainly could be implemented, as has already been proven. I do not wish to speak at greater length. The earlier we have a vote on this to see where the Government stands the better for the Parliament and the nation. i second the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition to suspend Standing Orders and, with members on this side, I will be interested to see whethers the real fear of defeat in the minds of members opposite is such that they will deny 600,000 to 700,000 citizens the right to vote. 
I will not detain the House for long; I will speak for only a few minutes. I refer to the income tax concessions insofar as they apply to blind people. I think that this is a matter at which the Government might look. The whole matter of taxation concessions requires a full and complete investigation. Without being political I say that the Government has been in office for so long that it has forgotten to review many laws, including those relating to personal taxation, sales tax and other matters of particular interest to the people. On 22nd June I received a letter from a sheltered workshop manager of the Royal Blind Society of New South Wales. He referred to my visit to that workshop. The letter dealt with expenses of travelling to and from work incurred by handicapped workers in a workshop of this nature. 
This is the situation: One man is deaf, dumb and blind and another man is deaf and blind. These handicaps make it impossible for them to avail themselves of a travel pass for government transport as they are unable to seek a guide on transport and crossing roads. This means that their only reliable means of transport is by taxi. I was told that it is most important for persons like these to have employment to occupy them mentally. One man spends most of his income on taxi fares just for the therapeutic value of being occupied. The manager asked me whether I would see what could be done. One of these gentlemen receives a gross wage of $40.70 a week, which is a lot of money.  His  taxi fare varies with traffic but the average is $3.40 each day. For 49 weeks his taxi fares would cost approximately $733. Honour able members can see that he would not have much left out of his $40.70. He is going to work merely to be occupied because of the grave disability which he suffers. The other gentlemen who, by the way, is a non-European, receives a gross weekly wage at this workshop of $16.90.  His  taxi fare averages $2.46 each day, so for 49 weeks it is $612.70. To be quite frank, we can say that these people are actually travelling to work and drawing their wages to be occupied and they are spending practically all their wages in getting there because of their inability to use public transport. I wrote to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  about this matter and subsequently recived a reply in which he states: 
The Commissioner, who was asked to comment, has confirmed that, under the present law, your request is one for consideration under a general provision which authorises a deduction for expenditure incurred in gaining or producing assessable income or necessarily incurred in carrying on a business for the purpose of deriving such income, except to the extent to which it is of a capital, private or domestic nature. In this connection, the courts and taxation boards of review, whose decisions must be taken into account in the administration of the law, have held on a number of occasions that expenses incurred by a taxpayer in travelling to and from work are expenses of a private nature and thus not deductible for income tax purposes, even when incurred by a person whose physical disabilities preclude him from using public transport. 
It is nearly time that decision was reviewed because such a person has no other way to get to work. If honourable members had seen these gentlemen they would realise the grave difficulties involved. The Treasurer goes on to state: 
Although the cases of the 2 employees concerned have been sympathetically considered, it will be appreciated that the Commissioner is obliged to confirm that their costs of travelling to and from work are not deductible as the law now stands. 
One cannot live on sympathy just as one cannot live on love. Consequently this is a matter which should be reviewed. I think that all fares to and from work should be an allowable taxation deduction. After all, a company director travelling in his car charges this cost against the profit and loss account of his company. He is one of the fortunate persons in the community. But here are 2 people who are working for the purpose of being occupied because of the disabilities which I have mentioned. I know that honourable members on both sides will realise the conditions under which they live, the darkness of their lives and the fact that they must be engaged in some form of activity. I suggest to the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland)  who is at the table that he have a look at concessions of this nature and see whether something can be done, particularly to make an exception in relation to those in sheltered workshops. If anybody is earning his living the hard way it is he who is engaged in the workshops I have mentioned. I bring this matter to the attention of the Minister and ask that something be done in relation to it. At a time when the Government boasts of its great contribution to the taxpayer, such as the 10 per cent reduction in personal taxation which it has given, it is tragic to think that a matter of this nature has escaped the Government's attention. I hope that it will give special consideration to this in order to relieve the distress, suffering and financial loss to these gentlemen who, as I say, are engaged merely for the purpose of being occupied. 
I want to speak for a few minutes about sales tax. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said, this is a very limited Bill. It deals only with a very special section of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. Like other honourable members on this side of the House, I regret that the Government did not adopt a more extensive view and provide for relief on many other items. When all is said and done, I suppose that sales tax is the most iniquitous of any tax imposed in this country because it is levied at the same rate on all persons irrespective of their income. A person who is dependent upon a pension pays just as much for an item that carries sales tax as does a man who earns SI 00,000 a year. It is a most inequitable tax and one which the Labor Government of 1949 was in the process of eliminating from the taxation schedule when unfortunately it was defeated at the election. At that stage only one section of the Sales Tax Act applied and I think the rate was about 8i per cent on a very small number of items. Had Labor been in office after that date people would not have been suffering under an Act like this with all its injustices. 
A few moments ago I mentioned the case of blind persons in regard to indirect taxation and the need for concessions for blind people who have to travel to work. I have details of similar circumstances relating to the imposition of sales tax which I received from the same source, the sheltered workshop which is involved. Unfortunately I do not have the papers with me as the details that I received were sent to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  The fact is that certain sales tax is still levied on some of the necessities for blind people. It might be interesting for people to know that the white stick which blind people use to guide themselves along streets and other places carries  111  per cent sales tax. If one looks over the range of items necessary for the welfare of blind people in the community one finds that they carry a certain amount of sales tax. 1 do not know what the income is from this section of the Sales Tax Act but it must not be very large. 
The only reason that it is still imposed, in my opinion, is as I mentioned when speaking to the previous Bill, namely, that the people have been forgotten. There are many aspects of legislation like the Sales Tax Act which should be investigated fully because much is being overlooked. I can see no reason whatsoever why there should be any sales tax on many items. Under no circumstances could I justify the imposition of sales tax on necessities for blind people. I suggest to the Minister for Supply and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland)  that his heart might be touched and that he might carry to the Treasurer this message from those of us who believe in justice and equality: We believe that blind people should be exempted from the tax imposed on certain items that they use. This is not an unreasonable request. I am sorry that I do not have the details with me. I sent them in booklet form to the Treasurer, together with a letter. From memory, I believe that all he told me was that the matter was being reviewed but .as everybody knows, that is a flash way for this Government to pigeonhole any sensible or reasonable suggestion. As there is nothing in the Budget about this subject and this Bill covers only a couple of works of art and things of that nature, it certainly has not received favourable consideration. 
I suppose that there is much to be said about paintings, drawings and pastels, original engravings, prints and lithographs, original sculputures and statuary and so on, but 1 cannot see why they are any more important than relieving the sales tax on necessities for blind persons. Therefore, whilst I am in sympathy with what the Government proposes to do to the Act as it now stands, and one must be grateful for any small mercies or morsels that fall from this rich Government's table, at the same time I would have been more pleased if the Government had bothered to relieve the sales tax on the items I have mentioned. I submit that suggestion to the Minister and, speaking generally, I hope it will not be very long before the Government removes completely this iniquitous and unjust tax. Sales tax is indirect and applies to all people irrespective of income. Under a government which in 1949 promised to reduce taxes, both direct and indirect, I know that the Treasurer of a couple of months ahead will agree with me that indirect taxation has never been higher in the history of this country since the present Government was elected on a promise to reduce it. At the risk of saying that they have thrown away their promise, I hope at least they will reduce the indirect tax a little by agreeing to the suggestion I have made in regard to the requisites of blind persons. 
I believe the thoughtful contribution of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  has cast a lot of light on the problems facing members of this Parliament. I have listened with interest also to the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  on this question and also on the way in which the Parliament in effect is losing its prestige. I am one of those who think that Parliament has become too respectable, too quiet and too nice. Since the reading of speeches has been allowed in this Parliament, I think all the cut and thrust of debate has disappeared. To the public the Parliament has become a session of reading speeches. Those things that in days gone by brought life to the Parliament and at least let the people know that it was alive have disappeared. 
The honourable member for Ryan said that honourable members should not seek to bring on matters of public importance unless they are terribly important. Who is to decide whether they are important? Not one supporter of the Liberal Party would ever agree that any matter of public importance mooted from this side of the Parlia ment was important. The decision then gets down to be a Party matter. Should the  Chairman  of Committees give a ruling on whether an intelligent member from this side of the chamber is justified in taking a point of order? It is a question of debate and judgment. 
Quite a number of other things have led to the present situation. When all is said and done generally speaking the public gets the type of government and the type of members of Parliament that it pays for. We have the amazing situation in this Parliament where Ministers are paid emoluments well beyond their capacity and what is required of them. Their salaries are practically double those of members on this side of the House. Unfortunately, to the discredit of this Government, we are paid at the same rate as senior flight stewards employed by Qantas Airways Ltd. What is more, we have not had a rise for about 5 years. So what sort of representation can be expected? 
I wonder whether the public realises that if salaries appropriate to positions in the national Parliament are not paid, the members concerned because of economic circumstances, can well be clouded in their judgment on great issues. When members of this Parliament hear that members of some State Parliaments are receiving well in advance of what is paid here, and when this Government does nothing about it, I believe there is reason for discontent. It is the responsibility of governments, not oppositions, to increase salaries. Because of this situation the prestige of the Parliament accordingly must slip in the minds of the people because the average fellow would say: 'Why. they are getting only a couple of bob more than me. They cannot be worth much'. I suggest to honourable members opposite that these things should be remedied if the public is to have good parliamentary representation. 
What is the attitude on the matter raised by the honourable member for Brisbane, namely, the question of secretarial assistance? Even the Assistant Ministers assisting the Ministers have more staff than any honourable member who sits on the front bench on this side of the Parliament. Whenever we ask a Minister a question during the committee stage of a Bill he dives around the corner and consults one of those very intelligent officers who sit there. These departmental heads are highly paid and highly skilled. The Minister gets all the information from them and then propounds it as though he were giving it himself. If the public only knew that the information which is given to this Parliament by practically every Minister comes from the brains trust in the Public Service paid for by the taxpayers of this country. Therefore, the Government is kept well informed. I do not say these people are always politically wise. 
The members on this side of the Parliament, however, are left to their own devices. Certainly we have the resources of an excellent library and research staff, but the Government's policy is to give the Opposition the very minimum of assistance in the form of research staff. The Government's attitude is to keep the Opposition in complete ignorance and then point out to the populace at large how bright it is because it has the advice of these $20,000 or $30,000 a year top public servants. This sort of situation ought to be stopped in any Parliament. As the honourable member for Brisbane said, there is a tremendous amount of work to be done by those on the back benches and the front bench in order to present reliably to the people a case from a Party that represents, come hell or high water, roughly 50 per cent of the Australian electors. I can understand this Government not wanting the Opposition to be super-informed. Everybody knows that given half the advice that the Government receives we are better. Everybody knows that the penetrating debaters on this side of the Parliament tear to ribbons the well advised members who sit on the treasury bench. This situation is unfair in a democratic institution and it is unfair to the people generally, because we on this side are entitled to the facilities necessary in order to carry on the tasks of government and to put our case to the people. Therefore I suggest that the Government might give consideration to the matters that I have mentioned in relation to this aspect. I know that the new government will do so. When I look at those honourable members opposite who will be sitting on this side after the next election, I realise that no amount of staff could advise them intelligently. Consequently, what I am saying probably will not help them much. 
In any case, I mention these matters in order to show that for 23 years the Liberal Government has survived by refusing to give the members on all sides of this Parliament adequate remuneration in keeping with the responsibilities in the Australian Parliament. To its eternal discredit it has shirked its responsibilities, blamed the Opposition, and refused to do what was its responsibility, namely, to see that members of Parliament were paid reasonable remunerations, not ones that place them beyond the pale. Adequate remuneration should be paid so that no person in the community can say - I am not casting any reflections on flight stewards - that members of this Parliament are not performing a more responsible task than leading flight stewards employed by Qantas. On top of that, the Government's failure to provide staff and all the facilities that go with it also presents the problems that I mentioned. 
I think there are other ways in which this Parliament could be made more interesting to the people. Take the Hansard report, for instance. When an honourable member orders his 60 or 70 copies of his speech he receives a bit of. paper with his name on it. Probably part of a poor speech by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  will appear either before or after the speech of the honourable member concerned when it is sent to the electorate. Consequently all he is sending out is a bit of paper. Why could not every member be given an issue of the Hansard with his speech included in it? The Hansard could be headed to show who had spoken and, in the case of a good looking honourable member like the honourable member for Ryan, why should his photograph not be on it for the electors to see? There is nothing new in this. Photographs can be printed while you wait. Then when an honourable member sent out to his electorate a copy of his speech at least his constituents would know who he was. Ministers can order copies of speeches by the dozen. Why should not ordinary, private members of the Parliament have the same facilities? These are areas in which improvements could be made. 
There are other ways in which the Parliament could be improved. As the honourable member for Ryan has said, the adjournment debate is a very important part of the parliamentary day. The honourable member said that we should not debate matters of public importance but that they should be raised during the adjournment debate. In the case of this Parliament the adjournment debate may be somewhere around 11 o'clock or midnight. As I have mentioned here previously, the only people out at that time probably are prostitutes and policemen who might be listening to the parliamentary broadcast in the various suburbs. If we are to have adjournment debates, on a couple of nights a week they ought to start at 10 o'clock. Honourable members should be given the opportunity then to debate the matters raised for a reasonable time. But if these matters can be raised only after the motion for the adjournment of the House, nobody has heard what honourable members have had to say. Understandably, very few people remain to listen. Therefore the purpose of the debate is completely defeated by it coming on at a time when nobody is interested. It m too late for the Press, and very few people know that it has even occurred. Therefore I think debates on government business should terminate earlier in the night and the adjournment debate should be longer and commence earlier. In that event honourable members would have the right on a dozen and one occasions to put their point of view. 
I do not wish to speak at greater length. I have seen a lot of changes in this Parliament and I will nee a lot more in a couple of weeks from now, as honourable members here know. I say to honourable members opposite that I think the reading of speeches is one drawback. Other drawbacks have been the Government's curtailment of criticism, the lack of secretarial and research assistance to Opposition members, the complete dominance of the Parliament by the Ministry which has grown flaccid and complacent over the years the Government has been in office. All these things have added to a situation whereby some of the features of what the honourable member for Ryan mentioned do occur in the Parliament. But I can assure honourable members that there will be changes for the good, and a vibrant new Labor government, whenever the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  likes to face the people, will not only stimulate interest in this Parliament but also give the people a really democratic institution in which they will receive the results that they pray for and can get only under a Labor government. 
I wish to join with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in connection with the mysterious silence of the Ministry not only in respect of the important details he mentioned but also in respect of the purpose of a Minister's sitting at the table while the Estimates are debated. A few moments ago we finished the debate on the estimates of the Parliament In 2 hours of that debate all kinds of sensible suggestions were made. Lord knows that the Assistant Minister assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Dobie)  needs assistance, but he was not even in the House during that debate. Are answers to be given to questions raised about the estimates of the Prime Minister's Department and the Cabinet, the Treasury and the Advance to the Treasurer? Surely Parliament is entitled to explanations and to answers to questions asked by members on this side of the Parliament. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is at the table, looks nice and attractive but with due respect he is terribly dumb; he has not said a word. If any speech justified an answer the one made by the honourable member for Dawson a few moments ago justified an answer from the Minister. Surely members of this Parliament are entitled to hear something from Ministers in respect of the matters we are discussing, otherwise this is just a debating exercise. Why, there are hardly any Government supporters in the House. They are not even interested in the Budget. I do not blame them. They are probably in their electorates preparing for their political doom, and so they ought to be. But the fact of the matter is that they show no interest at all. The Minister for Defence will not answer the points which have been raised. One member of the Country Party is present and he has only just woken up. This is the situation in this House. 
I want to say a few things about the secrecy associated with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and his Department. I note an allocation of $30,404 for the visit of the  President  of the Republic of Indonesia in 1972. This is indeed an interesting allocation, particularly when we consider how the Prime Minister of New Zealand was treated when he visited Australia. The amount of $30,000 for the visit of the  President  included invitations to every member of the Parliament to bring with him his wife and whilst in Canberra - and quite rightly so - they were paid living allowances to meet the costs involved. This was done for  President  Suharto's visit. Certainly he is the leader of a great State and a great country. That invitation was extended to every member of the Parliament. There was evidently a good roll-up because it would not be a bad party for $30,404. 
Later I received an invitation from the Prime Minister on a beautifully embossed card which read: 
The Prime Minister and  Mrs McMahon  on behalf of the Government of Australia request the pleasure of the company of  Mr and Mrs F.  M. Daly at a reception in honour of the Right Honourable J. R. Marshall, M.P., Prime Minister of New Zealand and  Mrs Marshall  at Parliament House, Canberra on Tuesday, 20 June 1972, from 5.00 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. 
Naturally being courteous to a fellow sufferer in the great South Seas, the Prime Minister of New Zealand, I decided to accept on behalf of my wife and myself. But much to my surprise I found that I would have had to pay my wife's fare and I would have had to pay for her board and lodging and for my own. The attitude seemed to be that as far as the Prime Minister of New Zealand was concerned he could go to hell; he was a second class citizen. I sent a telegram to the Prime Minister. I was informed by the Department of the Interior that for a general parliamentary function to which all members are invited the new regulations apply in respect of wives' travel and the daily allowance. If it is not a general parliamentary function, that is if there is a limited number of invitations, the new procedure does not apply. So members on this side of the House and shadow Ministers invited to show the respect of their own Party when the Prime Minister of New Zealand was involved were expected to pay their own way including accommodation; yet every Minister probably could bring his wife and kids with him at government expense and enjoy a party. 
I was not behind the door. I spent a few dollars of the Government's money on a telegram to the Prime Minister. This is what I said: 
Re your invitation to  Mrs Daly  and myself to attend reception for St  Hon.  J. R. Marshall MP Prime Minister of New Zealand and  Mrs Marshall  Parliament House Canberra Tuesday June 20 stop Very surprised your dept has made no provision for warrant for wifes  travel to Canberra and daily allowance as applied to those invited to function for  President  Suharto stop Evidently Government considers N.Z. Prime Minister and wife second class visitors and not worthy of hospitality extended to foreign heads of state stop In declining invitation in protest at Government's mean and paltry approach to this visit desire to state that if Government can afford to regularly send Ministers public servants and their wives on luxury trips abroad members and wives invited to official functions of this kind in honour of such a distinguished personage should be entitled to expect adequate financial provision will be made by Government to enable them to attend. 
The Prime Minister was very courteous. I sent that telegram on 19th June and, working with the usual speed associated with a Liberal Government, I got an answer dated 17th August. It read: 
Dear  Mr Daly, 
I refer to your telegram concerning the reception for the Rt  Hon.  J. R. Marshall and  Mrs Marshall  at Parliament House on 20th June. 
I have noted your views in relation to the Canberra Allowance and the additional travel entitlements for wives. I will have the conditions relating to both these matters looked into. 
I have heard nothing further. Consequently I presume it has been lost. But I hope that the Prime Minister of New Zealand realises that his Liberal counterparts in Canberra think that he is a second grade citizen. They treated him that way and did not give a hang whether anybody came to the function. In fact they hoped that nobody would come so they could save a few dollars and spend it probably on other matters related to their own personal activities. 
They are not so tight when it comes to looking after Ministers and their travels abroad. Let us have a look at this. In 1971-72, under Division 435, for Ministers, Assistant Ministers, the Leaders of the Opposition and others an amount of $509,228 was spent. These Ministers certainly travel well. Let us have a look at the Prime Minister. In 1971 the sum of $35,392 was expended. There were some pretty good parties on the other side of the world out of that amount. Going further down the scale, for the Minister for Shipping and Transport an amount of SI 7,966 was expended in 1971; for the Minister for Foreign Affairs in 1971 the amount spent was $17,552; for the Minister for Primary Industry in 1971 the amount is shown to be $21,238. 
Further down the scale, for the Minister for Labour and National Service the amount spent was $18,553. 1 hope that the unemployed listen to what I am saying. On the Treasurer in 1971 the amount expended was $19,219. There are so many items that time does not permit me to read them in this debate. For the Minister for National Development the amount spent was $12,319. Travel expenses for the Minister for External Territories in 1971 - he really had a cheap trip - amounted to $1,007. Then further down the line, for the Minister for Trade and Industry in 1972 the amount expended was $17,725 and for the Treasurer in 1972 the amount shown is $21,429. For the Minister for Health the sum of $14,430 was expended. An amount of $10,924 was spent on the Minister for Labour and National Service. These are members of the Government which expected members of Parliament to come to Canberra at their own expense, without providing a few paltry dollars, in order to honour suitably the Prime Minister of New Zealand. 
When I asked the Prime Minister to give me details of these trips he refused to do so because he knows that hidden behind those thousands of dollars are many luxury jaunts by people including the wives of Ministers and public servants associated with them. They cover it up because if the public were to know how this money is spent it would be a public scandal. I just say this to the Prime Minister: They reckon that travel broadens the mind and if that is the case we have the broadest minded Ministry ever in our time. The tragedy about most of these trips is that most Ministers come back. The situation is that there is plenty of money for everything except private members of this Parliament and except to honour justifiably some of our distinguished visitors. 
Tonight therefore in my first speech on this issue I mention those facts in order that all will know how this Government treats itself but views with contempt not only the needs and requirements of members on this side but also how it insults the Prime Minister of New Zealand. Whilst  President  Suharto was entitled to his welcome, why degrade the Prime Minister of New Zealand as a second class citizen? I do not want the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to answer me. I would like to see somebody responsible from the Prime Minister's Department to answer the charges and statements I have made in respect of this. I know that the Minister for Social Services, who is seated at the table, is not only lucky to be in the Ministry but is flat out doing what he can in the social services field which is keeping him more than busy. 
The questions J have raised are vital. How were these moneys spent? Why were they spent? Why will the Government not do the right thing by all sections of this Parliament and to all distinguished visitors? I place on record my opposition to what has been done by the Prime Minister in respect of the visit of the Prime Minister of New Zealand and what are evidently luxury jaunts in many cases and for which the Government will give no explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian 
Capital Territory I bring up the Committee's report relating to employment opportunities in the Australian Capital Territory, which matter was referred to the Committee by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  on 7th May 1970. I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I seek leave of the House to make a brief statement relating to an article that appeared in the Courier-Mail' on Wednesday, 13th September 1972, about the salaries of members of this Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
How many persons in receipt of (a) age, 01 invalid, and (c) widows' pensions have (i) no other income and  (10  additional weekly incomes of (A) $1, (B) $2, (C) $3, (D) $4, (E) $5, (F) $6, (G) $7, (H) $8, (I) $9 and (J) $10 and over. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many (a) males and (b) females are registered for employment at (i) Newtown and (ii) Leichhardt, Sydney. 
What are the ages of those registered in each case. 
How many (a) males and (b) females were registered at those offices on the same date in 1971. 
asked the Minister  for  Education and Science a question, upon notice: 
How many students in (a) each State and (b) Australia qualified for enrolment in Australian Universities in 1972. 
How many were (a) accepted and (b) rejected in (i) each State and (ii) Australia. 
What were the reasons for rejection of students in each State. 
I address myself to the estimates for the AttorneyGeneral's Department. The allocation this year is $26.71 lm, an increase in round figures of $2m over the amount allocated last year. Later I want to deal with the administrative side of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. This comes under the administration of the AttorneyGeneral's Department while its expenditure allocation comes under the Prime Minister's Department. One can see that it is mysterious even in terms of its administration and expenses because it has to be spread over 2 departments. But before I do refer to it 1 want to pass a few comments about the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  who has just spoken. He mentioned that the crime rate is rising. I do not know whether that is right or wrong; there may be more criminals now because there are more people. There are 13 million people in Australia and I suppose that the growth of the population must inevitably bring a growth in the number of crimes. Criminals are like politicians and the average person - they are better educated these days. They know how to get around various points, such as questions of law in ways which probably 10 or IS years ago would not have been thought of. Probably better educated people are drifting into crime and learning the tricks of the trade. There was a time when criminals would not challenge the police or the courts but these days they are doing it. 
No. I understand that Parramatta has one of the highest crime rates. 
Most of the people in the Parramatta electorate who commit crimes give addresses within my electorate and in that way the Parramatta electorate escapes responsibility. Like the honourable member for McPherson, I am one who does not believe that the efforts of the police force should be decried. The day we cease to uphold the responsibility of the police force to enforce the law of the land for which it is responsible and weaken its administration in any way we will be doing a great, disservice to the community. No matter who we might be we like to see that uniformed man around our streets at certain times. Whilst some of them may not be physically powerful, the very impression created by a police force which is capable and efficient gives one the feeling that one has security and this is a feeling which permeates the whole community. We desire to see it remain that way. 
That does not mean that we at any time condone offences that are committed by policemen. They are like any other section of society; there are good and bad policemen. I am one who does not like to see the police blamed for everything when they are carrying out the law. We as members of Parliament have a responsibility to see that we respect the fact that the police are administering the law on our behalf. Far from decrying their efforts, we should see that their efficiency is maintained and that they are treated with respect, otherwise we may well reach the stage in this country at which a force outside the police force will be called upon to keep order, as has been the case in other parts of the world where riot squads have been established, I do not want to see that happen in this country. When I have seen some ugly incidents take place, it was good to know that there were people in uniform, or even in plain clothes, prepared to fight for the average citizen. The day when our sons, daughters and wives cannot walk down the streets without feeling secure is when we really will have to worry and those who undermine the authority of the police force do a great disservice to the community. 
Tonight I want to address some remarks to ASIO. I will deal with its administration. I notice that the amount allocated for 1972-73 is $4.740m whilst last year it was $4. 370m. That is a fairly substantial increase. As its name implies, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is a mysterious organisation. It was established in days gone by and under another government, but there are features of ASIO's administration which I think require the attention of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  Consider the position of a public servant. If he is to be appointed to certain positions there is a file on him in ASIO. If for some  reason  or other there is something against a public servant on the ASIO files he is denied promotion, as well as appointments abroad and things of that nature, probably for a lifetime. Any member of  this  Parliament who knows persons in the public service must know that that situation exists. There is no appeal against  it  and as far as I know the public servant concerned is never told the reason for the ASIO report. All kinds of strange things can happen and we could well find people unjustly treated by an ASIO report. As a result they might have to forgo promotion and  things  of that nature for a lifetime. Therefore  there  should be some way in which  these  matters can be reviewed. 
I do not want to go into this aspect in detail tonight but we could find people who,  to use  a popular term, have extremely 
Tightest views  called upon to report upon some person who is a member of a very militant branch of the Australian Labor Party. That person could be excused for thinking that the person he is investigating may have some extreme or leftist or communist  views.  The person involved may be a sincere churchman, but a report sent in in such circumstances to the Public Service might well result  in  the person concerned being denied promotion or some appointment. These are things which should be considered. At the risk of taking up the time  of  the House I would like to refer to an interesting thing that happened to me. I parked my car where evidently it should not have been parked when attending the Olympic Games held in Melbourne. When 1 came back to my car it was being towed away. I said to the officer: 'What are you towing my car away for?' He said: 'It is where it should not be'. I said: 'I am a member of Parliament'. He said: 'Are you? I am a member of the security police'. I said: 'ls that so?' Then he proceeded to give me his name and address and his secret and silent telephone number. I rang those numbers later and checked them all. I said to him: 'You are such a decent fellow that I will tell you my name now'. I got all this information from him without even revealing my name. He was such a decent officer that he put my car back where it should not have been parked in the first instance. If there are people as lax as that in the Organisation I would not like to see them reporting on any person in the community if their report could affect the promotion or position of that person. 
Therefore I think that there is a great case to be made particularly in respect of public servants whose files are kept by the Organisation, for people to know precisely what is recorded against them and for people to have some right of appeal. It is easy to put up a case against a person when the case does not have to be answered. At least the person reported upon should know what is said against him. In some cases some people can make extremely strange judgments against others. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who is at the table, would not make these mistakes but they could be made by other people. This is such a mysterious organisation and from what I can see of what is happening in the community today, it is not effective in some respects. If reports that might have been submitted to the Attorney-General in respect of certain terrorist activities in this country were based on reports of this Organisation I think they are probably a long way off the beam. Whilst one cannot expose to the light of day everything that ASIO is doing for the sake of the defence and security of the country, at least there is a case to be made out for a review of its activities, particularly since there has been a great increase in its expenses in recent times without there being, from what I can see, no great increase in efficiency. 
I am not one who believes in the development of a police state in this country. I do not like any secrecy. Whilst I respect the police force and the security service for what they are doing, let us safeguard our democracy and ensure that things which can destroy that state of affairs that the honourable member for Mcpherson mentioned, things which we all want to see safeguarded, do not creep in. I make these submissions to the Minister not to be critical but in the hope that they will be taken into consideration, particularly as they refer to ASIO because in the community today there is a concern over its activities and the fact that there may be files kept on public servants who know little about them and because of which many are suffering. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many telephone applications are outstanding in Marrickville, Newtown, Annandale, Petersham, Dulwich Hill, Tempe, St Peters, Erskineville, Leichhardt and Stanmore. 
What is the (a) longest (b) shortest and (c) average period of wailing for this service. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
How many branches of his Department are there in New South Wales and what is the address of each. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What (a) salaries and (b) allowances are paid to Members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What (a) salaries and (b) allowances are paid to (i) Ministers and (ii) Members of the Papua New Guinea Parliament. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the total tax per head of population in 1949-50 and 1971-72. 
How much of this amount was (a) direct and (b) indirect taxation. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What was the cost to the Commonwealth for persons committed to State prisons for Commonwealth offences in each of the last 5 years. 
What sum was paid by the Commonwealth to each State for this purpose in each of those years. 
Mir N. H. Bowen - The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Separate payments  to  the States are not made in respect of persons sentenced, in the States, to be imprisoned for Commonwealth offences. Payments are made  to  New South Wales and South Australia for persons sentenced to imprisonment in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and removed to those States for the purpose of serving sentences. These persons include those sentenced to imprisonment for offences against Territory laws as well as for offences against Commonwealth laws. Payments for those prisoners in the last five years are as follows: 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that States' Agents-General in London have complained to the Home Secretary regarding the discrimination against and treatment of Australians entering Great Britain by immigration officials. _ (2) Is it also a fact that the High Commissioner in London,  Sir Alexander  Downer, has lodged an official complaint to the Home Office. 
If the position is as stated, will he give full details of the complaints and the result of action taken, by the Agents-General and the High Commissioner. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What are the (a) salaries, (b) allowances, (c) travelling facilities and (d) expenses of (i) Justices of the High Court, (ii) Judges of - the Northern Territory, Supreme Court, (iii) Judges in Bankruptcy, (iv) Industrial Court Judges and (v) Presidential Members and Commissioners of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at this date. 
What is the pension contribution and entitlement in each case. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Can he provide complete details of the (a) salaries, (b) allowances and (c) pension schemes for (i) Ministers and (ii) Members in each State Parliament. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to bring forward legislation to lower the franchise age and the age of candidature to 18 years for Federal elections. At present, the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides that persons who are not under the age of 21 years are entitled to have their names placed on. the roll and, when enrolled, to vote at elections for sena tors and for members of the House of Representatives. However, under a special provision, a member of the defence forces serving in a war zone outside Australia, who is under 21 years of age, is entitled to vote at a Federal election. 
This is an historic occasion - an occasion,  Mr Speaker,  too long delayed. This Government when in Opposition eneavoured to extend the democratic right of the franchise to the youth of Australia. Private members Bills were introduced into both Houses of the Parliament in 1968 and 1970 and debated at some length. The Liberal-Country Party Government declined to bring these Bills to a vote. It preferred to deny this well recognised democratic right to an important section of the Australian community - the youth of this country - although the franchise for those 18 years and above is well recognised throughout the world. I am delighted that the privilege of introducing these historic measures - of rectifying this denial of natural justice - has fallen to me and that it is one of the first legislative acts of this Parliament. For me it is a proud and significant moment. After many years in Parliament and in Opposition I am indeed honoured to be asked by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to present this, the first legislative proposal of the new Government, in the first session of the 28th Parliament. 
The reasons why the Labor Party attaches such importance to this legislation were summed up in the most pertinent way by the Prime Minister when, as Leader of the Opposition, he spoke on the second reading of the Adulthood Bill which was introduced by him on 21st November 1968. The Prime Minister said: 
By any standards men and women are as mature at 18 years now as they were at 21 only a generation ago. They are more mature intellectually, physically, socially and economically. They stay at school longer. They go on to tertiary and technical education in much greater numbers. They are physically bigger, stronger and healthier. They conduct themselves with greater aplomb. Their consumption in all respects is greater. They make their presence felt and their ideas known much more readily. They appear in the mass media and respond to them. They attend the theatre and perform there. They practice a knowledge of the performing and plastic arts at a much younger age than men and women did a generation ago. Psephologists, psychologists and political scientists assert - as a result of their investigations- that people are as mature, articulate and informed in their political views now at 18 as they are at 21 years of age. As far as can be determined they are as informed at 18 years of age now, as they used to be a generation ago at 21 years of age. 
These facts are undeniable. The Prime Minister's statement is even more valid today than at the time it was made. This Bill, therefore, symbolises the commitment of the Labor Government to the youth of this country - to a new Australia of equal, political, social and economic opportunity for all. It recognises in the only tangible way that those who accept responsibilities to the community should enjoy an appropriate status. At 18 years of age young Australian men and women may - or soon will be able to - enter into contracts, dispose of property, take and defend legal action, drink, drive a motor vehicle, marry without parental consent, and under the previous Government could be called up for military service. Thousands of them pay taxes. Their status as full citizens of Australia will now be properly and legally recognised. There is a world-wide trend towards lowering the age of majority. In the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States of America and the Federal Republic of Germany the franchise age is 18 years. Indeed, some 53 countries have adopted a franchise age of less than 21 years. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a list of those countries prepared for me by the Chief Electoral Officer. 
I thank the House. That Australia has not fallen into line long ago with the trend in these countries remains one of the regrettable features of the policy of the previous Government. It is absurd and anomalous that persons in the 18-20 years age group are able to vote at some elections and not at others. The Prime Minister wrote to all State Premiers in December 1972 advising them that the Commonwealth Government would lower the franchise age for all men and women to 18 years early in the sittings of the new Parliament. The position with regard to the franchise in the 6 States of Australia is as follows: South Australia and Western Australia have enacted legislation to reduce the voting age to 18 years; New South Wales passed legislation in 1970 lowering the franchise age to 18 years but the Act has not yet been proclaimed; in Victoria the Premier has announced that the franchise age will be lowered to 18 years before the next State elections which, I understand, are expected to be held about the middle of this year; the Queensland Cabinet approved the towering of  the franchise age to 18 years but the Government deferred consideration pending information as to the Commonwealth Government's intentions; in Tasmania a Bill which included the lowering of the franchise age was passed by the Lower House of the last Parliament. 
Honourable members will be aware that under the provisions of section 41 of the Constitution, no adult person who has, or acquires the right to vote at elections for the more numerous House of the Parliament of a State shall, while the right continues, be prevented by any law of the Commonwealth from voting at elections for either House of Parliament of the Commonwealth. The franchise age question came before the High Court of Australia last year. The High Court decided that under the terms of section 41, adult person' meant a person not less than 21 years of age. However, it was made clear by the High Court that the way was open for Parliament to extend the vote to 18, 19 and 20-year-old citizens 6y legislative action. 
The Bill before the House contains transitional provisions which are designed to exempt the 18, 19 and 20-year-olds from the compulsory enrolment provisions of the existing law within the period of 3 months from the date of commencement of the lower franchise age. This period is considered necessary in order that appropriate publicity might be given to the entitlement of the newly enfranchised persons and to provide them sufficient time to become acquainted with their entitlements and obligations before the compulsory enrolment provisions are applied. Of course, any person who turns 21 years of age during the 3-month period will automatically come under the compulsory enrolment provisions upon attaining 21 just as he would at present. The Bill provides that the proposed amendments will come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation and efforts will be made with the respective joint roll States - other than South Australia - to fix a common date from which the lower franchise age will operate for Commonwealth and State purposes. In South Australia the 18-year-old franchise has been operative for State elections since June last year. 
I now turn to that part of the Bill which deals with the lowering of the age for candidature. As honourable members may be aware, the age qualification for candidature at Federal elections has been coincidental with the minimum age for enrolment and voting since federation and the Government takes the view that there is no logical reason to depart from the uniform age practice under Commonwealth electoral law. We believe that, in conjunction with the extension of the right to vote at 18 years of age, young people of this age should also have the right to nominate for election if they so choose. They already enjoy this privilege for the South Australian House of Assembly elections. 
Accordingly, the Bill proposes an amendment of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which will have the effect of bringing the age qualification for candidates into line with that proposed for enrolment and voting. The age for candidature for Australian Capital Territory House of Representatives elections is governed by the Australian Capital Territory Representation Act and a separate Bill will be introduced to amend that Act. Separate legislation is not required in respect of age for candidature for Northern Territory House of Representatives elections as this matter is covered by the amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act proposed by this Bill. 
This Bill is one of the most far-reaching reforms within the Australian political community for generations. Although the distribution of 18 to 20 year old persons is not yet available electorate by electorate, the Commonwealth Statistician estimates that there are almost 700,000 young Australian men and women in this category, all of whom will be entitled to the franchise under this measure. In consequence at the next Federal elections a wider and more representative Australian electorate will choose their political leaders. In his policy speech, the Prime Minister proclaimed to the nation that the 3 goals of the Labor Government would be: Firstly, to promote equality; secondly, to involve the people of Australia in the decision-making processes of our land; and thirdly, to liberate the talents and uplift the horizons of the Australian people. 
With this measure we make a significant advance towards these goals. We commit this Government, this Parliament and this nation to ensuring that the views of the young people are listened to and are properly understood and considered by the Parliament. In so doing we hope to remove one of the causes of discontent from the past. Our young people inevitably will be involved in the political life of the nation and will be able to divert their creative energies and enthusiasm to a better Australia. This Bill deserves the support of all honourable members, and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Snedden)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The franchise age for the Australian Capital Territory is governed by the relevant regulations but the purpose of this Bill is to lower to 18 years the candidature age for House of Representatives elections for the Australian Capital Territory. It is proposed to repeal section 5 of the Australian Capital Territory Representation Act and to amend section 7 of that Act. 
Section 69 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, which specifies the age qualification for candidature, is applicable to House of Representatives elections for the Australian Capital Territory and the amendment of that section proposed by the Commonwealth Electoral Bill which I introduced earlier this day will have effect in respect of House of Representatives elections in the Australian Capital Territory. The amendments proposed by this Bill will therefore bring the age qualification for candidature for Australian Capital Territory elections into line with the age qualification for candidature for Senate elections and for House of Representatives elections in the States. The figures supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician indicate that the number of 18, 19 and 20 year olds in the Australian Capital Territory at the time of the 1971 census was 8,950. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hunt)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Northern Territory (Administration) Act to bring the age for candidature for elections of members of the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory into line with the candidature age of 18 years proposed for Senate and House of Representatives elections by the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1973. 
The Northern Territory (Administration) Act is administered by my colleague the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  but, as the subject matter of this Bill is related in part to the subject matter contained in the Commonwealth Electoral Bill, which I introduced earlier, my colleague felt that it would be appropriate for me to introduce this Bill also. 
The lowering of the age for candidature for Northern Territory Legislative Council elections to 18 years is a natural consequence of the adoption of that age for candidature for election as a member of this House. The lowering of the age for enrolment and voting for both House of Representatives and Legislative Council elections in the Northern Territory will be achieved by amendment of the Northern Territory Electoral Regulations. The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that at the time of the last census there were 4,362 persons resident in the Northern Territory in the 18 to 20 year old age group.  Mr Speaker,  I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hunt)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That,  unless  otherwise ordered, in all standing orders relating to the taking of  a  division or the counting of the House or Committee for quorum purposes, references to  1  minutes be suspended and  3  minutes apply in place thereof. 
I do not intend to speak at great length on this motion, other than to say that its purpose is to extend from 2 minutes to 3 minutes the time that the bells will ring to summon members for a division or quorum. This is a temporary measure only, to apply while the alterations to Parliament House are being carried out. Members will know that the office of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Cabinet room have been temporarily relocated in the Senate wing which was completed last year. Having a look at honourable members opposite, I think that even the most active of them would have to reach near-Olympic standard to get between that office and the chamber within 2 minutes, and a few honourable members I see opposite might not get to the chamber in 2 days. These temporary offices are as far away from the chamber as it is possible to get. 
Renovations to this place are extensive. I do not say this in any political sense, but on the eve of the election, for some unknown reason, the Liberal Party decided to demolish the Prime Minister's suite. To make sure everything went, the old Cabinet had to go too. I understand that these offices will not be replaced or rebuilt even if the job proceeds with great speed, until the commencement of the Budget session. This means, of course, that the Prime Minister and Cabinet are now located at the very far corner on the Senate side of the Parliament In addition, a number of private members are on the Senate side also. In other words, they arc a long, long way from where we constantly have to assemble for the business of government. Whilst others may not believe so, I believe that the Prime Minister has the right to participate in votes in this Parliament when he so desires. This applies to every honourable member. Every facility should be made available in order that a l honourable members may be able to enter the chamber in time to take part in the divisions that take place. Not only the Prime Minister is involved. Meetings of Cabinet sub-committees could be taking place and the members who are located in that distant part of the building may find that, when the passages are crowded with members rushing along, they will not be able to reach this chamber in time. Of course, the dignity of the Senate must be considered. Senators may not want to see members rushing wildly through their corridors, disturbing the placidity of that august chamber. This kind of thing must be avoided - if not for the benefit of the persons directly concerned, then to maintain the high standard of dignity and decorum of those in another place. 
In contrast to the situation in which some honourable members on this side have been placed - this may have been the luck of the draw, I suppose, although there were some disputes about what room would be occupied by whom - the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the de facto  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are all located in offices that are very close to this chamber. I suppose that 2 or 3 steps would take them into this place. We do not quibble at that in any way. But it is only reasonable to say that during the time Parliament House is undergo- I ing renovations the time for the ringing of the 
I  division bells should be extended. That is why today I have formally moved this motion. I hope that it will be accepted. I know that there are great issues to come before the Parliament, but I cannot imagine that an extension of one minute will make that much difference to the deliberations of this House. 
I commend the motion to the House and hope it will be supported. I am doing this in a quite non-political way, in the interests of the Parliament and the members of it. I do not have any ulterior motive of giving favour to anyone; rather do 1 seek that the Prime Minister, other members of the Cabinet and those other honourable members who are situated in offices on the far side of Parliament House be given an equal opportunity to participate in debates and divisions without running the risk of having heart attacks, falls or anything of that nature on their way to this august place. I commend the motion to the House and I hope that it will be supported as [ a temporary measure. 
I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday and Wednesday at two o'clock p.m. and on each Thursday at ten o'clock a.m. 
That, unless otherwise ordered, at fifteen minutes to eleven o'clock p.m. on each Tuesday and at fifteen minutes past ten o'clock p.m. on each Wednesday and Thursday the  Speaker  shall put the question - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate; if the House be in committee at the time stated, the  Chairman  shall report progress and upon such report being made the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the question - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate. Provided that: 
if a division be in progress at the time of interruption such division shall be completed and the result announced, 
if, on the question - That the House do now adjourn - being proposed, a Minister requires the question to be put forthwith without debate, the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the question, 
nothing in this order shall operate to prevent a motion for the adjournment of the House being moved by a Minister at an earlier hour, 
any business under discussion and not disposed of at the time of the adjournment shall be set down on the notice paper for the text sitting, and 
if the question - That the House do now adjourn - is negatived, the House or committee shall resume the proceedings at the point at which they had been interrupted. 
Provided further that if, at eleven o'clock p.m. the question before the House is - That the House do now adjourn - the  Speaker  shall forthwith adjourn the House until the time of its next meeting. 
The principal purpose of the motion I have moved is to ensure that late sittings of the House are avoided. We want the House to rise each night at not later than 11 o'clock after reasonable allowance for adjournment debates. In order to do this without unduly hampering the progress of Government business in the House we propose also that the House shall meet half an hour earlier each day. In addition we propose to reduce meal periods by a quarter of an hour, as was done in the Budget sittings of the last Parlliament. The new meeting times and meal periods will be: The House will meet on Tuesdays and Wednesdays at 2 p.m. and on Thursdays at 10 a.m. The suspension for luncheon on Thursdays will be from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. and for dinner each day from 6.15 p.m. to 8 p.m. This is a trial measure only and I ask honourable members opposite to absorb that when they are thinking  of moving amendments to this resolution. It is a trial measure only and will be reviewed during the early sittings of the Parliament. Opposition members should be careful that we do not adopt at that stage some of the amendments that they might have in mind, if they do not like what we are putting up. The success of what the Government proposes will depend on the goodwill and support of all members. If we find after a few weeks that our proposals are not working as we had hoped we will have to review the situation I am confident that members on both sides of the House will recognise the advantage of the proposals that 1 have put forward. Honourable members cannot expect to perform their tasks in this Parliament to the best of their ability if the House sits late into the night or into the early hours of the morning. All honourable members who have been in previous Parliaments will recall the effects that long sittings have had on members' tempers and capacity to contribute their best. We should have very much at heart also the interests of all those who work so tirelessly and uncomplainingly for us in this Parliament. They are often here for some time after the House rises and must be back on duty again at the usual time next morning. Late sittings are an imposition that we should not place on them. 
As I have indicated, this proposal is being put forward because the Government believes that it is very much in the best interests of all honourable members and of everybody who works in this place. I wish to elaborate on that a little. When in Opposition other members and I were constant critics of late sittings of this Parliament and, as such, we hoped when in government to be able to improve the position. Consequently this measure is designed not only to enable honourable members to have full discussion but also to see that meetings of the Parliament finish at a reasonable hour. The legislative programme of this Government is very heavy. In fairness to all Governments, no doubt their legislative programme is very heavy. In this session as many as 60 Bills may come before the Parliament and as many as 150 or 160 may come before the House during the year. Consequently, honourable members will want to bc alert and awake in order to be able to debate measures at a reasonable hour. 
The Government is quite mindful of the need to protect the rights of private members. No honourable member appreciates the position of private members more than the members of the present Government because we were at the receiving end of what I would describe as the most torrid Government in the history of this country in respect of the taking away of members rights. The Government is pledged to support the rights of private members and it is making adequate provision for adjournment debates. There will be a big improvement on what was done under the previous Government, as I shall demonstrate. Discussion will be available to all honourable members, not in the dead of night but at a reasonable hour. Many honourable members who have listened to members of the Liberal Party in the middle of the day should be able to work out for themselves what those members sound like in the middle of the night. We are not here to put through legislation by exhaustion. The hours that I have proposed will give all honourable members not only an opportunity to participate in the adjournment debate at 10.15 p.m. instead of 11.15 p.m. or 12.15 a.m. as under the previous Government but also adequate time for full discussion. If honourable members opposite check on previous adjournment debates they will find that very rarely, if ever, did they start until the very late hours of the night. The opportunity contained in the present proposals is one of which honourable members should take advantage because it will give them a chance to speak at a reasonable hour. 1 propose now to give honourable members some indication of what the Government proposes. Under these proposals there will be no vote on the adjournment. In this respect the proposals are similar to those that were brought down by a previous government for a trial period in April 1970. The effect will be that on Wednesday and Thursday nights the House will begin the adjournment debate at 10.15 p.m., and proceedings will automatically peter out, as it were, at I I p.m. The House will then automatically peter out, as it were, at 11 o'clock each sitting night. This will allow honourable members 45 minutes to speak on the motion for the adjournment of the House on Wednesdays and Thursdays. The motion for adjournment will be moved at quarter to eleven on Tuesdays. Another 15 minutes will be available on Tuesday nights if honourable members wish to use that time. This proposal seeks to give to honourable members an opportunity to speak in adjournment debates, as I say, at reasonable hours. 
There is some criticism that not enough time will be provided. The present Opposition, I understand, is screaming to high heaven about it. Listen to the record of the Opposition when it was in government. In 1972 the total time given to adjournment debates was 26 hours 13 minutes. There were 60 sitting days and adjournment debates took place on only 38 of them. The average time for an adjournment debate in that period was 41 minutes 24 seconds. These figures have been given to me by the  Clerk  of the House. The motion now before the House concerning-. the sitting hours of Parliament proposes a definite 45 minutes on 2 nights a week and another 15 minutes on another night for adjournment debates. No figures can be produced to deny that that is a considerable improvement, particularly when we remember that under the previous Government's management of this House most debates on the adjournment took place when, as I said, only people of undesirable character were on the streets so late was it. We are making a genuine effort to provide for honourable members opportunity for debate at a reasonable hour. 
Honourable members opposite scream a lot about restricting opportunities for private members to enter debates. I shall now give honourable members the record of the previous Government in respect of opportunities for private members to debate various matters. In 1970 it gagged debates on 56 occasions. In 1971, debates were gagged on 92 occasions - the then Government just missed the century. In 1972, which was a short sitting year, the score was down to 68 gags of legislation. This is the record of the former Government which now talks about the freedom of members of the Parliament. On the subject of general business days, in 1970 there could have been 9 opportunities for private members to discuss general business but the Government of the day allowed us only four. In 1971 there were 10 opportunities and the Government permitted six. in 1972 there were 9 opportunities and the Government gave us four. Of the 28 days in those 3 years when (here were opportunities, only on 14 occasions were honourable members given the opportunity to debate general business. This is about 50 per cent of the available opportunities. 
Honourable members should now listen to the former Government's record with respect to grievance day debates. Grievance day is the one day in this Parliament when members can really put forward subjects that matter to them. In 1970, there were 9 opportunities for grievance debates and that benevolent Government let us speak on 4 occasions. In 1971 there were 10 opportunities and the Government said that we could speak on 4 occasions. In 1972 there were 10 opportunities and we were allowed to speak on 5 occasions. In 3 years there were only 29 opportunities for private members and only on 13 occasions did the former Government allow private members to exercise their sights. Fifty five per cent of the time available to private members was taken up by Ministers and others on the Government side. 
When honourable members opposite talk about the rights of private members they should remember that there are a few skeletons that are well worth rattling in their old cupboards. The simple fact is that no other members of Australian Parliaments ever took away more of the rights of private members - as the figures I have given show - than did members of the previous Government. Honourable' members on this side of the House were allowed to talk for only 26 hours of the time available in adjournment debates. The Government's proposal will not only increase the time available for debate but will also give private members an opportunity for grievance day debates in which full and adequate discussion may take place. 
Some honourable members on the other side of the House constantly have expressed the point of view which I am expressing from this side of the House. Today I hope they will participate in this debate and give expressions of approval to what we believe is a commendable effort to improve the sittings of this Parliament. As a Government we do not mind debating any subject. No member of the Government would be here if he could not answer members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party and their policies. We are not afraid of debate. We are not afraid to give members an opportunity to speak. But here is an opportunity in this new Parliament to open up a new concept of the way in which sittings may be held to benefit all honourable members. No matter how honourable members opposite vote on the proposal, I will be interested to scrutinise lists later to see how many of them arrange pairs if debates continue after 11 o'clock. Those who vote against this measure today will be the first to seek leave of absence tonight when the chips are down. 
There is nothing new in this proposal. If the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who is at the table, will look at the report of the debate of 10th April 1970, he will see that on the question of adjourning the House at 11 o'clock his own Government at that time sought to introduce what we propose today. We agreed with it except that we wanted to advance the commencement date a little. Today we are only following a pattern of sittings and the adjournment of the Parliament at night that was introduced at that time by the then Leader of the House, now Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  In August 1970 similar proposals were put. I say to honourable members opposite that if they do not support this proposal they will be opposing if for one reason only, that is, that they are on the opposite side of the House now and they want an issue on which to seek to make some political capital. 
I think some honourable members on the other side must be uncomfortable in that new paddock because now and again a rumble is heard from that side of the chamber. The proposed hours are just right for the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who is seeking to interject. The motion for the adjournment of the House will be moved at 10.45 on Tuesday night. On other nights the motion will be moved at 10.15 and the House will adjourn at II. Does any honourable member on the other side want to sit later? Do they really think they can speak and apply themselves intelligently well into the early hours of the morning? Do they really think that they can apply themselves in debates which continue to 1 o'clock or 2 o'clock in the morning? Is it fair to the public, to the staff or to others involved for us to sit to those hours? 
The new hours of sitting are available for everyone to see. They have been circulated. The proposal is a genuine attempt to bring reasonable sitting hours to this Parliament. They will be reviewed in due course. I will listen with interest to the amendments put forward by the Opposition. I will store them in my archives. If at some future time we need a change of hours we may have to fall in line with the proposals the Opposition puts forward. But I have a shrewd idea that they will not be nearly as compatible to it if given effect to as the proposals which I have moved. 
I have always been opposed to very late sittings, as have other honourable members on this side. We believe in full and frank discussion. We want the Parliament to sit at reasonable and proper hours. That is why I have moved this motion on behalf of the Government. Unfortunately the Opposition earlier today spent a good deal of time in discussing the extension of the ringing of the division bells by one minute. There are 25 or 26 names - among them some of the most prominent members of the Country Party - breaking their necks to take part in the AddressinReply debate. I must say regrettably that they must not let themselves speak for too long on this motion because it will not be long before the result of this proposal is known, no matter what amendments may be proposed. 
by leave - In speaking this afternoon to my motion regarding the hours of sitting and the adjournment I mentioned that it was proposed as part of the overall arrangements to reduce slightly the periods for meals as was done in the last Budget session of the last Parliament. I now wish to inform the House that the new arrangements for meal breaks will operate from and including Tuesday next, 6th March. I remind honourable members that the new times are as follows: Dinner 6.15 to 8 p.m.; luncheon Thursdays 1 to 2.15 p.m. I thank the House. 
1 did not intend to participate in this debate, but the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has stirred my emotions.Ifeel that I should say a few words in response to what be said a few moments ago. The Leader of the Opposition criticised the attitude and the policies of the Australian Labor Party Government in the last 3 months. Even a biased critic will agree that more has been done in the last 3 months of benefit to this country than had been done in the previous 23 years under the former government. The 2-man Government did more in an hour than the previous government did in the previous year. If honourable members study the program of legislation that has been announced by the Government they will find undoubtedly that included in it will be some of the most far-reaching and beneficial measures ever introduced into any Parliament in this nation. The Opposition has started off with disunity. We find now that members of the Country Party and the Liberal Party are blood brothers again. They have given up fighting over rooms and major matters like that. They are now speaking to each other. I never forget the first momentous days of this Government. There were more than a hundred thousand people unemployed and the nation was looking for leadership on both sides of the House, but what did we find? This did not concern the members opposite. The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  took somebody else's room, and the newspapers were full of this for days on end. The new Opposition in the Parliament was fighting not over the affairs of the nation but about whether one of the squatters should be evicted from the room of one of the leaders of the Opposition. Does anybody in this Parliament know yet who is  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition? I have never been told. Nobody here knows. The man who the Liberal Party claims is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has the worst room in Parliament House, and. the de facto  Deputy  Leader has one of the best.  Mr Speaker,  you have not advised me of your deliberations on this subject and consequently I think we are as much in doubt as the rest of the populace as to just who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The Leader of the Country Party says that he is the second most important man in opposition. I suppose he works on the same basis as the Country Party does with the boundaries of electorates - getting the minimum of votes and exerting the maximum influence it possibly can. 
Rarely in my time in this Parliament have I heard a more humorous statement than the statement by the Leader of the Opposition a few moments ago that the Country Party and the Liberal Party are united in this Parliament. Honourable members know as well as I do that the Opposition is discredited. That applies to both parties, but possibly no other Party is more discredited than the Country Party, although it is stretching it a bit to say that there could be any party more discredited than the Liberal Party. The situation as I see it today is that honourable members opposite are now endeavouring to mislead the people into thinking that they are a united Opposition; that they can give leadership to this country again; that they can lead the people into the promised land. Everybody knows that they are bereft of policy and that their leadership is at the lowest possible level. Even the present Leader of the Opposition was elected to that position by a majority of only one. Can honourable members imagine, for instance, that great man, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  thinking that the present Leader of the Opposition has more brains than he? Certainly not. He has told the world the brains and capacity he has. Do honourable members think that the former Prime Minister looks with pride on his successor as Leader of the Liberal Party? If I were he I would say: 'I must have been crook because that chap has taken over from me'. These things are apparent for all the world to see. 
Honourable members opposite talk about disunity on the Government side of the Parliament, but knives a yard long are being held by every member sitting behind the front bench on the Opposition side. The country knows it; the world knows it, and I will tell the Parliament who else knows it - the Leader of the Opposition. This is the situation on the opposite side of the Parliament. 1 do not think that in our time honourable members opposite will ever return to this side of the chamber. This is a vibrant nation looking for leadership and getting it from a government that is really doing things and a government that has a sense of responsibility to the people of this country. In this Parliament only the other day, at a time when members of the Opposition were saying that they were here to lead themselves back to government, they spent 90 minutes arguing over a minute. Imagine that - for 90 minutes this fighting Opposition argued whether it would give members a minute more to walk into the Parliament for a division or quorum. Have we heard one new idea in this debate from any honourable member opposite? Has anybody on the Opposition side of the Parliament said anything that is worth while? With all due respect to the new members, I congratulate them on making their speeches to this Parliament, but quite frankly not many of them are an improvement on the older ones who used to be here. This is the situation the Opposition members face at this time. I have no desire to hold up the business of the House, and consequently I do not think I should further delay the deliberations on the AddressinReply as many other new members wish to make their orations, but I could not let the occasion pass without saying a few words in response to what I think would be one of the weakest speeches made by a Leader of the Opposition in what was the first crusade of the present Leader of the Opposition in his endeavour to win back government of this country. 
Before concluding I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your elevation to the Speakership of this House. My association with Speakers has been a long and happy one, and I feel that with your dignity, ability, knowledge and respect for Parliament you will bring great credit to the high office you occupy. Apart from everything else, you come from a great district. You come from Redfern, where rules and standing orders are always obeyed. I know that, with that background, you will bring to the position great knowledge and respect from all members of this Parliament. 1 congratulate those honourable members who have made their opening speeches in the Parliament. I wish those on the Opposition side a short and happy career in this place; and to those who have shown such distinction from this side of the Parliament, I extend my congratulations on what they have done towards bringing about a Labor government of this country. From their contributions, it is apparent that they will play an important part in the deliberations of this chamber and the welfare of this nation. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would .'ike to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Bill, the Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Bill, the Interim Forces Benefits Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 5 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I rise just to say a few words to the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  in relation to his query concerning questions in this House. The present practice, as honourable members know, is not new. It is a relic of that dim and dark 23 years of Liberal Party-Country Party Government. We on this side of the House sat until recently on the other side. When we were the Opposition we were not only denied the right to ask questions more than once every 3 weeks but also, when we did receive a reply, we w:re given mostly stupid answers. Honourable members on the other side are a very fortunate Opposition. They not only get the opportunity to ask questions but also they get magnificently intelligent and informative answers. Rarely has an opposition been able to ask such talented Ministers questions from time to time. So the honourable member ought to count his blessings and think how fortunate he is. 
But members of the Opposition have their own problems on this matter. They have 2  deputy  leaders and 2 general leaders. They have a couple of  deputy deputy  leaders. If they could sort themselves out and they did not jump so often they would all be able to ask twice as many questions. How can members of the Opposition expect the Government to answer questions on primary industry? The Opposition has 2 spokesmen on primary industry. I suppose that to be fair we would have to let both spokesmen ask the same question each and every day. Then we would see a stand-up fight because the answer to the Liberal question would not coincide with Country Party policy. So we can see what a mess the Opposition would put us in on this side of the Parliament in trying to answer the honourable member. I suggest though that honourable gentlemen opposite should use the notice paper extensively. All private members have this opportunity. The honourable member for Wimmera could benefit from a lot more knowledge and information. 1 know this from his speeches. He could improve considerably by using the notice paper much more. 
Yes, the  deputy deputy  uses it. Ho will tell us that himself. And he is getting really brief and to the point answers. All honourable members can do the same. We on this side of the Parliament do not want to suppress information. We would be delighted if every member opposite could ask question after question because we know that we would be in government still longer provided we were given the opportunity to supply answers to those questions. Opposition supporters seem to think that we on this side of the 
House are responsible for ail the ills of this country. 1 wonder how many honourable members opposite have read the results of the last elections. One would think that they do not know what side of the House they arc sitting on. They are blaming us because of a shortage of telephones in country districts. 
The Opposition was in office for 24 years and its supporters now tell us that within 24 days or so of coming to office the Labor Party is responsible for all these sorts of things. It is the old story - when in opposition they are roaring lions but when in government they are worn out old tom cats. It is as simple as that. Most of those members of the Country Party who sat on this side of the House before the last election were as quiet as rabbits suffering from myxomatosis. But today in their new pasture in the Parliament they are a vibrant fighting force and when they think they have the time to stop saying what they think of the Liberals they think about attacking us because of a shortage of telephones or insufficient time to ask a question of two. For instance, let us take the wheat growers. A member of the Country Party has tonight complained about their situation. Honourable members opposite were in office for 24 years and they left the country and the wheat growers in the biggest mess in the history of this country. The other day the Labor Party gave to the wheat growers an advance that excelled anything that the Country Party ever thought of in its time on this side of the House. This Government is to undertake an inquiry into long term low interest rates for farmers and we will certainly see that they get their returns. On top of that they know that on this side of the Parliament they are represented by real country men like the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson). 
The people in the country districts know that they now have in this Parliament spokesmen who will speak on their behalf. If honourable members opposite do not think I am right they should read the results of the last elections. Another record majority was achieved by the honourable member for Dawson. Everybody knows that it was not until Labor came to office in the war years that primary producers received any return for their labour. We gave them guaranteed markets, we stabilised prices and we put the farmers on top of the world. Instead of owing  money to the banks the banks were borrowing from the farmers. Honourable members opposite are now telling us what they did for the farmers. One would think that they were not reponsible  for the things that went wrong, but make no mistake about it, the full responsibility for a shortage of telephones, shortcomings in conditions for farmers and in primary industry, and everything else that has gone wrong in this country, rests with honourable members opposite. They are the guilty men because they were in office for so long. I am interested to note that after 24 years in the lush pasture on this side of the House they have to be at least a little vocal in order to let the people know that they exist in the Parliament. 
Now I can see the wine growers friend. One night in this House the honourable member moved a resolution to support the wine growers but ended up voting against his motion. You would not read about it. 
He voted to gag himself. I recall one honourable member moving that the question be put and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who was on his feet, sat down. He, in effect, gagged himself. So if he would not listen to himself why should we put up with him? It is fascinating to look from this side of the House at honourable members opposite. They look so much better on that side. They look so comfortable. I know they are settling in because it will be a long long time before there is a change. I also know that the members of the Country Party cannot wait until next Tuesday. They are dying to hear a speech of mine, I can see the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  They have the light of battle in their eves because their citadel may be assailed on Tuesday. Their quiet friends in this House are looking at them sympathetically but when they are in the Liberal Party room they are laughing their heads off. 
On a serious note, I place on record tonight the fact that this Government in 24 days has uplifted the dignity of this Parliament. Whoever heard during the last 24 years of an adjournment debate taking place at 10.25 p.m.? We generally started such a debate at about 11.25 p.m. If honourable members are unable to ask questions because of lack of time they at least have the opportunity to express themselves during the adjournment debate, so be thankful for the opportunity. Be thankful for what the Labor Party is bringing to this Parliament - democracy, free speech and the right to say your piece and to put your point of view. I am sorry to have taken up so much time but I thought,  Mr Speaker,  that the reference to questions was somewhat of a reflection on the way in which you were running this House. Therefore I desired to put the record straight and to inform Opposition supporters that if they are not sure on which side they are sitting they ought to read the results of the last elections. As far as primary production, the running of this Parliament and the welfare of this country are concerned, they are in good hands. We will endeavour to remedy in the many years ahead of us the ills and shortcomings that were caused by the administration of the last Government. I am hopeful that we will be able to do that with a minimum of inconvenience to the public and with great benefit to the nation. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Australian Capital Territory Representation Bill and the Northern Territory Administration Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply - I thank honourable members for what has been a very informative debate. I only wish that all honourable members had thought the same way a little while ago.  If  they had we would have had a unity ticket on this vital issue. I reply, firstly, to the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  On a recent visit to Western Australia I discussed the matter with the State Attorney-General. The Government is now considering the matter favourably, I know. In a very short time I expect to hear an announcement from that source on the acceptance and fulfilment of what he suggested was very necessary - a common roll for that State. At this stage the matter is finalised to that extent. Queensland then will be the only State not co-operating. 
In answer to the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  it is true, as he stated, that a person who turns 18 on a given date is entitled to enrolment on the previous day. I have with me the findings in a court case Prowse v. Mclntyre. I understand that a person who was born on, say, 16th April 1955 becomes not under 18 years of age on 15th April 1973. In other words, a person will be entitled to enrol on the day prior to his eighteenth birthday. I know that honourable members opposite will be happy to know that they are a day older than they thought they were. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
Minister for Services and Property) (8.4) - 1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Free elections are basic to a democratic society. But free elections by themselves are not enough - the results must reflect the will of the majority both in individual constituencies and throughout the nation. If the electoral laws do not result in the Government desired by the majority - if they are manipulated to reflect the political interest of persons or parties - it would be a denial of the very essence of democracy and a travesty of the electoral process. The Government, mindful of its mandate and responsibility, is determined to ensure that the Australian electoral laws embrace those fundamental principles of human rights and democracy in this nation. With this objective in mind, on 1st April 1971, I stated in this Parliament: 
The fact of the mailer is that the Commonwealth Electoral Act is outdated and outmoded. This applies not onlyto the actual drafting of the Act. but also to many of its provisions. To amend it completely both for Senate and House of Representatives elections is a major undertaking. On the election of  a  Labor Government next year, immediate steps will be takento redraft the Electoral Act to meet the changing needs of our time and to bring it into line with what has been found necessary in other fields of national legislation. 
And now it's time. It's time for action. Already I have introduced on behalf of the Government a Bill to provide for the reduction of the age for voting and candidature to 18 years. A comprehensive review of the Commonwealth Electoral Act is being undertaken at the present time and further legislation covering many other important proposals, including additional representation for the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory will be submitted to the House later this year. I am hopeful that they will be passed into law before the next elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate. A notable feature of the Liberal-Country Party Government's term was its reluctance to debate electoral legislation. On 31st March 1971 the Country Party Minister forthe Interior introduced a Bill covering amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act but. like so much else initiated by the then Government it was never debated and withered on the vine. On 1st April 1971 I introduced an Electoral Bill on behalf of the then Opposition providing for certain important reforms. The debate was adjourned and it also disappeared with the dissolution of the Parliament. The reason was obvious. At that time the Queensland Parliament was debating proposals for the redistribution of State electorates introduced by the Country Party Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  which was described by the Liberal Party State  President, Mr E.  Robinson now the honourable member for McPherson, as 'electoral injustice at Country Party insistence' and by others as the 'worst gerrymander the world has ever seen'. With a State election pending and Liberal and Country  Party members at  each other's throats, the State Parliament in turmoil, discussion of electoral legislation had to be suppressed at all costs. 
The result of the census on 30th June 1971 established that Western Australia is entitled to another seat in the House of Representatives, making a total of 10 seats. This matter was repeatedly brought to the notice of the Parliament by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who was then Leader of the Opposition, but nothing was done by the previous Government. Nor was the general practice followed of having a redistribution of Federal electoral boundaries following a census. The Western Australian situation therefore makes a redistribution not only necessary but urgent and, if the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act relating to distributions are to be changed, appropriate legislation must be submitted urgently to the Parliament. The proposals in this Bill are therefore introduced in order to allow the redistribution in Western Australia to proceed with the maximum speed, as, generally speaking, the formalities take about 28 to 31 weeks.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave of the House to incorporate a timetable prepared for me by the Chief Electoral Officer. 
Firstly,  Mr Speaker,  may I thank you for your wise decision. The proposed amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act are not the first changes to the Act since 1902. The honourable member for 
Gwydir introduced legislation in this Parliament on 31st March last year in which he proposed changes in the Act which went back to 1902, but he was not prepared to proceed with the legislation. In 1965 the LiberalCountry Party Government introduced into this Parliament legislation changing sections of that Act, which had remained practically unchanged since 1902. In that respect there is nothing new in a change to the Act, except that the Country Party cannot keep up with progress. As to the feeling that this legislation will disadvantage large electorates in the country, let me say that the Australian Labor Party knows a lot about this problem. We represent all the largest country electorates in Australia - Kalgoorlie, Darling and others. I could go on for half an hour naming them. As I said last night, we are the only country party in the Parliament. Far from causing disadvantage, the Labor Party intends to give proper facilities to all members of this Parliament, particularly those in the outlying and far flung districts. The provision of proper facilities was neglected by the previous Government. We will see that members do not have loaded electorates but that they have adequate facilities to service their electorates. The Commonwealth Electoral Bill which I have introduced, if carried, will be of great advantage to members and to the people of Australia and will be a real hallmark of democracy. 
 I do not wish to delay the House for long, but there were one or two comments by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  that I think should not pass unnoticed. In this Parliament the honourable member for Curtin has assumed a very strange role. He was elected to the Ministry of the McMahon Government - which is no great credit - by reason of the fact that he complied with the requirement that you had to be very good and always bow to the Prime Minister and you were accordingly selected. In that Ministry he was what is classically known in political circles as a geographical selection. He was not picked on ability but merely because someone had to get in from Western Australia, and the talent was so low that the honourable member won in a canter. When the present Parliament resumed the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  selected him, I think, for a shadow Ministry, but subsequently the Liberal Party had a vote on who should be on the front bench and now the honourable member is back in the back blocks. The former Minister for Supply could not win a place on the Liberal Party front bench - and after all that is not a colossal task - and we find that ever since then he has been taking it out on us by continually moaning and groaning about what is happening on this side of the Parliament simply because of his personal disappointment about nonrecognition of the great ability of which he has so much and of which he constantly tells us. We do not mind this, but why not give us something constructive? 
The honourable member spoke on the question of supply. If he happens to be a wizard on supply, why is it that he is not sitting on the front bench of the Liberal Party and telling us from there what is wrong with supply, contracts and all these things. The fact of the matter is that he is speaking as a political discard of the Liberal Party on great international and national affairs. He has been found wanting in respect of these matters, and the Government does not want lectures from Liberal Party discards on how to run this country. The people outside know that we are doing it well. Whether the honourable member can read or not, let him look at the mandate we have. It is a pretty clear one and a pretty broad one. If he is here to obstruct the Government in this or another place, let him take the consequences in due course. He will find adequate opportunity to do so. 
The honourable member attacked the trade unions, their excesses, the demands they are making and matters of this nature. I did not hear him attacking the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd or the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd or any of the major monopolists which his Party supports in this Parliament together with all others who exploit the people of this country and go unchallenged and who for years were supported by the Government of which he was a Minister. When he was Minister for Supply he said nothing about those who exploited the taxpayers of this country by imposing exorbitant charges and other things of that nature. But now he has reached a position where he has become one who is finding all the flaws in the things that are happening in respect of these matters. 
The honourable member talked about political appointments. Honourable members know that after the 1969 elections the Government scattered Liberal discards from this Parliament from one end of the world to the other. It had  Mr Freeth  in Tokyo. We ran out of places for them. There were so many Liberal members the Government did not want that it knocked up sending them around the world. The last people in this nation who ought to talk about political patronage are the members of the former government who sit opposite. We only have to run down the list of the appointments they made. One day I asked a question here as to how many boards and committees there were, and I think I got the longest answer to any question given in the Parliament. Littered from end to end amongst the names given were members who had been appointed as favourites of the then Government for services they had rendered to certain people who then sat on the Government side of the Parliament. So let us not talk about political patronage. We have not started yet, because we know we have to think it over carefully. So great were the number of appointments made by honourable members opposite that I do not think that if we appointed one a day we would have enough to catch up. 
I mention these things so that honourable members opposite will know that it is a long hard road on that side of the chamber. The honourable member for Curtin does not want to get cranky early. He will have plenty of time to get it out of his system. He has years in front of him in Opposition. So I say to him: 'Don't get rid of it all at once. It is a tiring game in Opposition.' I was in Opposition for 20 years. A member can start exuberantly, as did the honourable member, but he will have to do it day after day. It is like a 6-day bike race. Consequently the honourable member does not want to be up again and again on the same subject. This is his second speech for the day. He said that he did not have sufficient time. We hear similar statements frequently. 
I would point out to the honourable member that there is no chance of his winning his way back to the front bench opposite on the talents he endeavoured to display today. After all, capable men like the former Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  are looking for a place on the front bench. I also see aspiring new members opposite. I have not seen them properly in action yet but many of them look bright, intelligent young fellows. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  is looking happily at me. I suggest that he would decorate with great distinction the front bench opposite. This obviously is making the honourable member for Curtin annoyed. He has no chance of getting on the front bench again. No doubt one of the bright new members will get the place he seeks. 
I do not wish to detain the House. I simply rose to put the honourable member for Curtin right on a few points. I repeat that for 23 years, we in Opposition, watched political patronage being exercised by former governments. We watched the previous Government go to its doom because of the incapabilities of its Ministers, among whom was the honourable member for Curtin who spoke this evening and earlier today. We watched the previous Government caring little about those who were exploiting Australia so long as its powerful friends were protected. We watched a Ministry selected. The honourable member for Curtin was one appointed not on ability but because of the geographical location of his district and because he worshipped the little man who was Prime Minister not so long ago. The Government is in office because it has a clear mandate. It has a policy and has been doing things. I say to the honourable member for Curtin that we do not want to be instructed by him on how to run the country because we do not want to end up again in Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) Consideration will be given to the composition of the Commission for Western Australia and to the appointment of Distribution Commissioners at an appropriate time.In the appointment of Distribution Commissioners full account will be taken of established precedents.Anannouncement will be made when relevant decisions have been taken. 
Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits: Cost  (Question No. 199) 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  is to be congratulated on bringing before the House a matter for discussion which is not only interesting but also most important.  His  motion should receive the consideration of the Parliament. The Government, in accordance with an undertaking given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  proposes to allow General Business to be discussed on each day when it falls due and to take a vote where possible on motions moved. That course will be followed today. I hope that the debate will conclude in time in order that we might take a vote on the subject under discussion in relation to which I propose to move an amendment shortly. 
The Government has carefully considered this matter. In line with what was said by the honourable member for Bradfield including the many and varied methods and suggestions that be proposed in respect of broadcasting of parliamentary proceedings, we believe that the proposal is worthy of the consideration of the Parliament. But we believe that the most appropriate method for this matter to be decided is through another channel other than by the appointment of a parliamentary select committee. I therefore move; 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the following matter be referred to the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings for inquiry and report: 
whether the televising of portion of the Parliamentary debates and proceedings is desirable, and 
if so, to what extent and in what manner the telecasts should be undertaken. 
That the committee, for any purposes related to thisinquiry, have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquaint ing it of this resolution and requesting its concurrence'. 
The amendment proposes that the inquiry be undertaken by the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings instead of by a joint select committee specially set up for the purpose. The Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings has as its functions the consideration of the general principles for the allocation of the Parliamentary broadcasts and it is felt that the consideration of televising the proceedings of the Parliament is not unrelated to these functions. This Joint Committee is set up by statute under the Parliamentary Proceedings Broadcasting Act which invests it with various powers for the transaction of its business. It does not, however, have the power to send for persons, papers and records. It is felt that if the Committee is to be given this inquiry in relation to televising proceedings of the Parliament it should be granted this power to examine witnesses to enable it effectively to conduct this inquiry. Provision, therefore, for this power has been incorporated in the proposed amendment. As the subject of the inquiry has relation to both Houses of the Parliament and as the Committee is a joint one composed of both senators and members it is considered to be appropriate that the references to the Committee should come from both Houses. It is therefore proposed that should the House agree that the inquiry should be undertaken by the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings a message be sent to the Senate seeking its concurrence. This approach differs only a little in substance from that of the honourable member for Bradfield. I hope that he will consider accepting it as I feel it would meet his wishes and the wishes of those who wish to have the matter discussed. 
As I do not wish to detain the House other than to submit that proposal, I wish very briefly to quote a few matters for the interest of honourable members in relation to the broadcasting of parliamentary proceedings and inquiries. The broadcasting of these proceedings is not exactly a new idea. As long ago as 1966 a select committee of the House of Commons considered the live transmission of parliamentary proceedings which would serve a useful purpose or hold attention of viewers and listeners. The committee considered that parliamentarians speaking in debates, if possible, should address listeners and viewers rather than debate matters in the traditional party manner. The committee suggested that members might be called on to speak at peak viewing hours. In Australia this could lead to a change of the timetable for debates. The Committee in 1966 said that it could not justify the expenditure of up to 20m for live television broadcasts of parliamentary proceedings. The Committee could see no objection, as the honourable member for Bradfield indicated, to the transmission of very important debates, such as those on the budget, economic or foreign affairs or question time and matters of that nature. It was interesting to note that on a free vote in the House of Commons the proposal was defeated in 1966 by only 131 to 130. William Deeds, MP, arguing against broadcasting said that the televising of Parliament would be designed not to improve parliamentary procedure but to improve TV programs; so it was not in the interest of Parliament. He said that on some days Parliament was dull. It would be a sin to be dull on television, he said, so members of Parliament would all appear to be sinners. That argument was used when the radio broadcasting of parliamentary proceedings was first introduced into Australia. The House of Lords, which certainly does not move with the speed of sound, experimented with closed circuit television in February 1968. The House of Commons followed suit in April and May 1968. But since that date no further progress has been made. 
Professor Jensen of the University of Minnesota suggested that a possible plan for the televising of parliamentary proceedings would be to have a 90 minute late evening program giving an edited account of proceedings. But the argument against this suggestion is that an edited program could distort, misrepresent and even ridicule proceedings. Advocates of the broadcasting of proceedings assert that the same argument was adduced, as the honourable member for Bradfield mentioned, when reporters were first allowed to report the proceedings of the House of Commons in the 18th century. It was suggested that those same problems would arise. Yet no great problems have emerged since that time. It is interesting also that a survey of 50 countries shows that 29 of the countries transmit live or recorded broadcasts of daily debates. Twenty of the countries surveyed also televise debates. So, we certainly are not taking a new approach. 
I could get a list for honourable members. New Zealand, Australia and the Philippines record full debates. Denmark both records and televises full debates, and the remainder of the countries surveyed broadcast extensive extracts at peak listening times, often with a commentary and opinions of experts added. 
It might be of interest to the honourable members for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  to know that the younger members of the House of Commons support the broadcast of proceedings. The older members seem to be against it. But at present it appears that in the House of Commons the age of members and not the Party to which they belong is the deciding factor in whether objection is raised to the broadcasting. As late as last year there was another vote in the House of Commons on this matter. Opinion supporting the proposal slipped back a bit. A report from the Melbourne 'Age' of 21st October states: 
The House of Commons last night refused to allow its proceedings to be televised for a trial period of about 3 weeks next summer. 
The vote on this occasion was 191 to 165. A certain trend was evident. I now quote a few more arguments from this article which give substance to what the honourable member for Bradfield said. The article continues: 
Advocates urged colleagues not to turn the House of Commons into a monastery and argued that the people were entitled to see what went on . . . within its precincts. Consequently they supported this move. The article states further: 
John Stevens, of The Age' London office, reports: 

 Mr Ashton (Lab.) apologised for having, during the debate, held up large cards with such phrases as Where is Ted?' and'Switch off.' 
He had been trying, he said, to illustrate how television debates could become ludicrous, he added. 
Take something similar to politics - religion', he said. 
What has happened to religion since television got hold of it? 
It has degenerated into Stars on Sunday, with Shirley 'Bassey singing Ave Maria. Religion is now showbiz. 
The only reason for wanting television cameras is vanity. 
The 'Daily Mail' reported what TV cameras might have shown during the debate: 
The Leader of the House (Mr Carr) sitting with his feet up; a bright yellow shirt worn by the member for Bolsover; almost deserted Treasury benches, and, at the end of the chamber, a dozen assorted legislators lounging by the door in various attitudes so as to look like something from a Victorian group photograph. 

 Mr Ashton's empty seat bore the notice 'Gone to eat'. 
These things naturally could be mentioned by the opponents of televising Parliamentary proceedings, and they are problems that no doubt could well be considered by the committee. I do not fear that these things could happen. I am inclined to think that, as the honourable member for Bradfield said, the televising of proceedings would improve the standard of debate. I think that this is something that will come to this country in the not too distant future and that now is the appropriate time to look at it. 
I commend the honourable member for Bradfield for his motion. Broadly I would say that in effect his motion is supported with the consideration that I have mentioned in the amendment. I hope that the House will debate and carry the amendment. 
There is no doubt that the Opposition is extremely edgy. Whether it is because of this legislation or the prospect of facing the electors again I leave to the populace to judge. Tonight a motion has been moved to suspend Standing Orders in respect of something that members opposite do not know will happen. I told the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  that something might happen, but how does he know that I am not pulling his leg? Honourable members opposite will look silly if his claim is not correct. Here we have the great defenders of democracy opposite demanding that Standing Orders be suspended to enable them to debate this great issue that is before the Parliament. Do honourable members know why they have moved this motion? Honourable members opposite want their long list of speakers to be heard in order to stop me from speaking and tearing their attack to ribbons. The world knows this is so. 
When this debate commenced a list of 16 speakers was supplied by the Opposition. The Government nominated 1 6 speakers also. Members opposite knew that when those speakers had been heard I would reply to the Opposition's spurious arguments. But today they introduced further speakers - members who could not speak in an iron lung - to defend their attitude. Many of the defenders opposite are from the Country Party. They are clinging to their ill gotten gains and trailing behind them like poodle dogs yapping at their heels are members of the Liberal Party. They know that if they do not hang together they will hang separately. That is why they have moved this motion to enable them to discuss this great measure. However, in debating this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders on such a high sounding principle, as they call it, they have wasted the time which would have been allotted to a couple of speakers. I told members opposite this morning that in due course the second reading debate would finish and the Government would allow every member of the Opposition who so desired to speak during the Committee stage of the Bill. This would have enabled those who now cry to high heaven for justice in this place the right to express their point of view, certainly with a limited time of 10 minutes, but when all is said and done not everyone can speak for 20 minutes on every second reading debate. Was that not a fair offer to make to honourable members opposite? 
Was it not? I tell the people of Australia that this morning I offered every member opposite the right to speak on this Bill but they rejected it. I do not say that members of the Liberal Party would have rejected it but they were told to do so by the Country Party. We know that when the Country Party speaks all those brilliant men opposite- 
I point out to honourable members that when this debate concludes, even if it is gagged now, about 7 hours will have been allowed for the second reading debate and 20 members will have spoken. As every supporter of the Government knows, those in Opposition have been guilty of tedious repetition. Honourable member** know as well as I do that the Government gave the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  an extension of time, and he is only the third most important man opposite. In addition the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  was given 45 minutes in which to speak, which was stretching it a bit. The novernment was prepared to give extra time to any third member opposite who wanted to speak, but no-one accepted the offer. Yet these are the members who say they want time to talk on this measure. This is nothing but a lot of humbug, as honourable members opposite know. The honourable member for Gippsland spoke about the gag. Members from this side of the House knocked up coming in and out to vote on gag motions when the Opposition was in Government. Members opposite forget that for 23 years when we sat in Opposition we were constantly gagged because the then Government did not have a case. In the 4 weeks of this Parliament on only 2 or 3 occasions has the curtailment of a debate occurred and this was simply because members opposite were frustrating the duly elected Government of Australia, which has an overwhelming mandate to legislate in the interests of the people. Everyone knows that this motion is a phoney proposition. Members opposite are desperate. No doubt they have read the Brisbane municipal results, so why would they not be upset? Why would not the members of the Country Party be worried about what is happening from Brisbane to the Gulf of Carpentaria? 
 Mr Speaker,  you realise that 1 have been unduly provoked by this episode. 1 contend, however, that this motion is a phoney proposition. - We listened to the honourable member for Gippsland this evening. He did not say anything new but repeated the same old Country Party philosophy that he has put forward in days gone by. This Government believes in open government. It believes also in freedom of discussion. I repeat that I offered all honourable members opposite the right to speak on this Bill but they would not accept that offer. 
Is is interesting to note how touchy the Opposition is on this question. Had the time of the House not been taken up with this particular debate we would have been listening to a first class speech from a supporter of the Government on this Bill. By moving this motion honourable members opposite have denied to one of their shadow Ministers the right to speak on the measure. I did not deny him that right. This has been caused by the moving of this motion. The  former  Minister for Shipping and Transport, the honourable member for Gippsland, ran out of matter when he was debating this Bill and with 5 minutes of his time remaining moved this motion to fill in his time. The world knows this, and that is why I mention it now for the benefit of honourable members. 
Let me give a clear  exposition of what  will happen with this Bill. The second reading debate is not yet finished, and I will not indicate what my intentions are in that regard, but tomorrow honourable members will be debating this Bill for a reasonably considerable time. Members will be given the opportunity to participate in the debate during the Committee stage of the Bill. Unless there is undue frustration they may debate the Bill. The fact of the matter, however, is that members of the Liberal Party are prepared to drag along at the heels of the Country Party and frustrate the will of the Parliament by trying to stop legislation. The Government must, in the interests of the people this Bill seeks to serve, take effective action in the Parliament to see that its legislation is passed. The former Minister for Education and Science, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said: 'Let us have a dissolution'. There were not many cheers when he said that because even if he has not done so, many others opposite have read the election results. In the other place where the Opposition has the numbers the attitude to this Bill can be decided. Let members of that place decide what they will do. In the other place there is unlimited speaking time. The interesting feature of this debate is that every member of the Country Party is in the chamber at this stage. This is unusual but they know that they are desperate men and anything they can do to try to discredit this legislation is worth attempting. Do members of the Country Party say that they do not believe in one vote one value? The honourable member for Wannon says that he does. 
I thought I had summed the situation up clearly. I can understand the touchiness of members opposite. If members opposite wanted to debate this measure they would not have interrupted it with a frivolous motion of this kind. It is clear that they do not want to debate the Bill. If they had wanted to do so they would have permitted one of their shadow ministers to proceed with the debate and not fallen for the claim of the former Minister for Shipping and Transport who said that he has read my mind and knows that the debate will be stopped. Members opposite are very touchy if they get upset about a debate being stopped on one occasion because they know that on hundreds of occasions members from this side, when in Opposition, were not allowed to debate not only the most important matters but also the most flimsy matters. The worst offender in seeing that the gag was moved was the former Minister for Supply. So tonight I am not upset by the phoney opposition to the proposition that we are putting up. Why do not honourable members opposite allow the debate to take its course and in that way see what God will bring to them? Then they will know our intentions. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
As the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  said, I was one of the delegation that attended the conference at Malawi. I endorse the sentiments that he has expressed today. In doing so, I congratulate him on the leadership he gave to the delegation and the excellence of his presentation of the cases put on a number of issues by the Australian delegation. I should also like to incorporate in my remarks my thanks, as  deputy  leader of the delegation, to our secretary and all the officials and other people associated with the conduct of the conference. A special tribute is due to the people of Malawi for what was a wonderfully friendly welcome. Malawi is a very poor country in many ways but the people's hospitality to the limits of their capacity was unlimited, if I may say so. It was a charming experience to be amongst them. Great credit is due to those who made the conference so successful in that way. 
I believe that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conferences serve a great purpose for discussion, for knowing people and for the mixture of ideas. The general community of interest that is apparent at meetings is exemplified in gatherings of this kind. Whilst in many ways the conference did not come up to what I would have desired, I would say that it is an Association with which we should be associated. We should endeavour to enable it, by monetary consideration and other things, to carry out the functions which it performs at present. As is evidenced in the report which will be published, certain changes are needed in respect of the composition of various executives and the regional areas and in the Association's methods of operation. I could not help but reach the conclusion that in many ways, instead of being what might be called a powerful relation of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, Australia was placed in the category of being a somewhat poor relation despite our influence in this part of the world and particularly the contribution we have made as an original member of the Association. Arising out of this feeling, we have suggested to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in our report certain rather drastic changes which we believe are necessary not only for the more efficient functioning of the body but also in order that Australia might not only be able to play its rightful part at these conferences but also receive proper recognition for the contribution we make to the holding of these conferences and the effort members of this Parliament and the government, irrespective of their political colour, put into the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. 
I thought I knew a bit about organising, but I somewhat humbly admit that, as my colleague the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  will tell you,  Sir, I  was taught a few lessons at a Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference on how to win ballots. I congratulate those who were successful in getting their man elected. I mention, somewhat humorously but nonetheless seriously, that the organising ability of the honourable member for Bradfield was so roused and apparent that I think he almost could have applied for membership of the Australian Labor Party. I could not help but think that certain meetings were used for organising purposes. Whilst they might have been good for those concerned, certain people used them very fruitfully for organising purposes. Australia is supposed to have the opportunity to represent a region. If we fake our turn in the ranks it will be 1991 before we hit the front. If the ticket continues to be run in this way, this Parliament will not be represented. Far from being just led along, we should be the leaders because we can do so much for the Association in this part of the world. 
I hope that the powers that be of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in London will heed the warnings that were given publicly by the leader of the Australian delegation and others on finance and organisation. I hope that all members of this Parliament will study our report and see that, as strongly as possible, we give support to what is being put forward as to changes that are very necessary if we are to be of any influence at all in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. I conclude these few brief remarks by endorsing the sentiments of the honourable member for Bradfield and thanking my colleagues in the delegation. The experience of attending the conference was all the more happy because on our return the Labor Party was elected to its rightful place in this chamber. I hope that support will be given to our recommendations, which are designed to improve generally the status of this Parliament in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the efficiency of the Association. 
 The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  said that he was ruthlessly gagged last night. If the speech we. heard from him this afternoon was no better than the one he proposed to make last night, we did not miss much. The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  mentioned that he also was ruthlessly gagged last night. The ghost of his father appeared in his speech today. I could not help thinking that they must have coalesced some way and discussed it, because it was precisely the same speech that his father made here in days gone by, depending to the last drop on the right of the Country Party for special consideration because it cannot obtain votes from the Australian people. It was said that this debate was gagged last night. It was gagged because honourable members opposite set out deliberately to stop me replying to the charges that had been made against the Government. A Country Party member took up 20 or 30 minutes of the time, of the House when other honourable members could have been speaking. 
But honourable members are very privileged. They have a democratic government now and they are speaking in committee, which was rarely, if ever, the case in the last Parliament. I want to clear up a few misconceptions about the Bill. We are discussing the very crux of the Bill - the changes that have been made to section 19. Statements have been made already in the Committee stage that cannot be supported by fact. A few moments ago the honourable member for Farrer said that only once since 1949 has the party that obtained the majority of the votes not won the election. That statement repeated by many honourable members in the course of this debate is completely and utterly false, and I shall show it. The facts are that in 1954 the Australian Labor Party won 50.1 per cent of the votes and gained 56 seats. The LiberalCountry Party with 47 per cent of the votes gained 58 seats. In 1961 the Labor Party gained 46.76 per cent of the votes and won 62 seats. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! That is a frivolous and vexatious point. It is not a valid point of order. 
Do not worry,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The honourable member is trying to fight his way back to the Ministry. In 1961 the Labor Party won 46.76 per cent of the votes and gained 62 seats. The Liberal-Country Party won 40.91 per sent of the votes and gained the same number of seats. In 1969 the Labor Party won 46.95 per cent of the votes and gained 59 seats whereas the Liberal-Country Party with 43.33 per cent of the votes gained 66 seats. They are authentic figures given to me by the Chief Electoral Officer. They will lay to rest for all time the statements made by honourable members opposite that the majority vote elects the government in this country. 
Honourable members have spoken about a lot of things in the course of this debate. One honourable member is on record as saying that he objected to the redistribution in Queensland but it was changed to suit him. I liked his delivery but the content of his speech does not bear scrutiny. Is that the kind of redistribution that the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  thinks was an improvement? In Queensland in the last State election the Country Party with 20 per cent of the vote won 26 seats and the Liberal Party with 22 per cent of the votes won 21 seats. The honourable member for McPherson changed things and made it better for everybody. The Labor Party with 47 per cent of the votes, more than the combined total of the other 2 parties, won 33 seats. The minority party in Queensland - the Country Party, which supplies the Premier - with the lowest percentage of votes exercises supreme control in that bastion of Country Party democracy with the help of the greatest gerrymander in the world. 
It has been said that the Labor Party is seeking to consolidate itself. There is no need for that. There is massive support for the Labor Party from one end of this country to the other. Criticism has been levelled at the Government for adopting the suggestion of the Constitutional Review Committee for a 10 per cent variation. It is not possible for the numbers to be exactly equal but they should be as near as practicable to that ideal. Two members of the Country Party, the late  Mr Drummond  and Len Hamilton from Western Australia, sat on that Constitutional Review Committee. The members of that Committee uniformly supported a margin of not more than 10 per cent. So let honourable members who sit in the corner answer that one. There is nothing new about 20 per cent or 10 per cent. 
Let us look at the other States. In New South Wales under the Liberal-Country Party Government there is a IS per cent margin. So that Government is evidently not in agreement with honourable members opposite. In Victoria - one cannot say that that is a really democratic State - the margin is down to 10 per cent. In Queensland it is 20 per cent but may be departed from to a greater extent than 20 per cent in the northern zone. No wonder they want the 20 per cent. In South Australia it is 10 per cent in the metropolitan area and 15 per cent in the country. In Western Australia it is 10 per cent. So what is new about this suggestion? One would think it was a revolutionary proposal. Those people who tend towards democracy agree that this is something that should be done. Therefore, those who support a margin of 20 per cent and the removal of these barriers, which count trees, acres, horses and cows instead oi people, subscribe to a system of political gerrymandering that has no place in any democratic institution. 
Country Party members have said that they are being attacked and that my speech was political. What a shocking thing to say about me. The fact of the matter is that none of them heard the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in his heyday as Minister for Social Services. I would be a babe in the woods compared with him. We always know when the citadel of the Country Party is being assailed. There is always trouble when the redistribution of boundaries is mentioned. Any party with falling support and falling numbers cannot survive unless it can rig things, constitutionally if possible. Who will ever forget the unforgettable occasion in this Parliament on 1st April 1971 when the former Minister for the Army, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  describing the Queensland Liberals who crossed the floor used these words: 
This is exactly my point. If the principle of one vote one value is introduced any member of the Opposition who has the guts can say 'you vote your way, I will be like the 8 traitors who walked across the floor of the Queensland Parliament 2 days ago and who betrayed the interests of the people who live in rural areas in Queensland'. 
He was not talking of Labor members; they were his blood brothers in the Liberal Party. What a dreadful thing to say about one's colleagues. That shows how the Country Party reacts when anything like boundaries is mentioned. Listen to this report in a Queensland newspaper about  Mr Hinze,  the Country Party member for the Gold Coast: 
There was an uproar as the House divided.  Mr Hinze  Country Party (Gold Coast) had to be restrained by Government members as he rose from his seat, waved his arms and angrily shouted at the 8 rebel Liberals. He shouted 'Mongrels, mongrels'- 
What a dreadful thing to say. This man is one of the people who tell you that they believe in democracy. Mentioning electoral boundaries to the supporters of gerrymanders in the Country Party is like putting your hand in their pocket and taking out any money you can find. They will fight to the last. 
The honourable member for Wannon, who is sitting at the table, warbles away now and then, but he will get his chance, so I will not deal with him at this stage. The Country Party resists electoral reform because it can exist only through unequal electoral representation. The Leader of the Australian Country Party is on record on 26th May 1965, when he was the Minister for the Interior, as having said: 
The population of a division includes the children, migrants and everybody in the area. 
Whom would he think it includes? Does he think it includes sheep, cattle and things of that nature? Of course it does not, and the Labor Party subscribes to the belief that it Joes not. Throughout this debate, particularly on the question of one vote one value, the silly argument has been raised about the constitutional position in the Senate. It has been said that the same number of senators represent Tasmania Queensland and the other States and that they do not represent equal numbers of people. Of course they do not, for the simple reason that our constitutional fathers made lt practically impossible to change the system that they established and they could never have achieved federation unless that system came about. That argument is one of the weakest I have heard, and I doubt that any party in this nation could change the Senate system of representation because I could not see Tasmanians of any political ilk voting to reduce their representation or to increase the representation of New South Wales or Queensland. It has been said that that argument basically supports the propositions put forward by honourable members opposite, but it is an argument that would not bear investigation. 
Honourable members opposite said that there is no need to change the system in respect of area and that kind of thing. They mentioned the terrific strains imposed on members representing country electors. They certainly have a lot to put up with, but the people who are represented by the Country Party put up with a lot more. Honourable members opposite do not even know the area of electorates. 
Mine was said to have an area, I think of 3.95 square miles. For the benefit of everybody it is  Bi  square miles, and I will tell the Committee what it has in it. It has people - about 125,000. That is different from the electorate of one member of the Australian Country Party which contains 60,000 or 70,000 people. The country member certainly has disadvantages, and they have been aggravated for years by the Government that the Country Party supported in this Parliament. But there is no cause in a democracy to pervert the course of justice because a government does not give members adequate facilities to represent the people by whom they are sent to this Parliament to state a case. 
I do not take a lot of notice of the honourable member for Wannon, because he sat in government for so long that he forgot what a backbencher had to do. We are told that under the proposed new system a redistribution will be required every 3 years. That argument is not logical. Redistribution normally takes place after a census, which I think is conducted every 5 years or more. If only the last Government had not been afraid of the result of a redistribution in Western Australia, Western Australia would have had an extra seat immediately after the last census. The fact of the matter is that the former Government feared the creation of another electorate in that State. It delayed a decision on the matter for so long that now it is urgent and necessary that we give effect to this legislation in order that Western Australia at least may get the seat to which it is entitled. 
Let me put honourable members right. Honourable members opposite say that a redistribution can be held only when certain seats are out of focus. That of course is one reason for a redistribution, but big changes are taking place in this country. As honourable members know 750,000 18-year-olds are now eligible to go on the roll and there will be half a million more such voters by the next election. If the Governor-General thinks it is fit, even under the existing legislation those additional electors in themselves will necessitate a redistribution to be held. 
I do not wish to take up further time at this stage of the debate, but I will be speaking later this evening. I do not want lectures from the honourable member for Wannon or the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes). 
The honourable member for Barker comes from the State in which  Sir Thomas  Playford did not have a redistribution for 25 years and in which one vote in the country was worth 6 in the city. If I want to know anything about gerrymanders I will look for the honourable member for Barker, because I reckon he could put us on the beam. If I wanted somebody else I would make a beeline to Queensland and have a yarn with the Premier, because he would bring me right up to date. If I wanted to indicate in this Parliament the party that has existed on professional and political gerrymanders, constitutionally applied, I would look straight at the Country Party and know that I was 100 per cent right. 
I shall finish in a few moments, but I just thought I would put the record straight in respect of these matters. As I say, in New Zealand a variation of 5 per cent from the quota is allowed. Now it is regarded here as revolutionary when we change a few things to bring more democracy to the country areas. Members of the Liberal Party say that they believe in the principle of one vote one value, but they are like they were in government. They could say what they liked as long as they did not vote for it. The Liberal Party says that it subscribes to the principle of one vote one value but will not vote for it. Its coalition partner with a glorious display of unity said: 'It is just impossible. Have nothing to do with it.' So how could we ever win. If we made all electorates equal in size or made the permissible variation from the quota 40 per cent we would find that there would be some difference on the other side in respect of it. 
The real opposition to this Bill comes from the Country Party. I excuse the Liberal Party because it has to survive with somebody. It cannot do it on its own so it just tags along. But let me warn the Country Party. Electoral inequality is its lifeblood politically. It cannot exist without boundaries being constitutionally gerrymandered and it cannot exist without the Bjelke-Petersens and others giving effect to policies which we are trying to refute in this Parliament but in relation to which our efforts are being opposed by those who sit opposite. I hope that this Bill will be carried and that in due course those in another place will pass judgment on it and in due course the people will pass judgment on them. These things want to be carefully pondered ere honourable members opposite rush wildly into rejecting this legislation, which is vital in any democracy. 
 I move: 
That the  report  be  adopted. 
 Mr Speaker- 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent standing order 93 being suspended again during the remainder of the consideration of the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2). 
 I rise to a point of order. I had the call. The honourable member took a point of order. I take the point that I am entitled to the call. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
I move: 
That the question be now pat. 
That the question be now put. 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
Those of that opinion say 'Aye', to the contrary'No'. 
-I have moved that the question be now put. 
 Mr Speaker,  I have moved that the question be now put. 
That the question be now put. 
That the question be now put. 
That the question be now put. 
Those of that opinion say 'Aye', to the contrary 'No'. 1 think the Ayes have it. Is a division required? 
Opposition members - Yes. 
 As calmly and as dispassionately as I can, I hope to bring the debate back to the level on which I think it should have been conducted and to explain to the House a few factors behind your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  I oppose the motion, and if honourable members who are interjecting will listen I will endeavour to explain why I do so. It is true that objection has been taken to the words 'ashamed of yourself. It is not that the expression is unparliamentary, as you know,'  Mr Speaker;  it is the manner which is objectionable What is said is one thing, but every member of this Parliament knows that how it is said is another thing. You may well call a man a 'b' with a smile on your face because it is how you say it that determines whether you get away with it. It is the manner and the context in which the words are used which determine whether they are objectionable. It is all very well to say these things flippantly, but the emphasis they are given and the manner of approach can cause people to take objection. This morning the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  was interjecting constantly. 
'Let me continue. The manner of the honourable member for Gippsland while saying 'you should be ashamed of yourself was cold, .insulting and sneering. He was following a course of- 
I say quite clearly that the' honourable member for Gippsland was following a course of conduct which could be described, to use an Irish term, as deliberately trailing his coat. He was given an opportunity to withdraw, ;but he refused the offer. Let me remind the House that that offer is a concession given only by the benevolence of  Mr' Speaker  or the' Parliament, because standing' order 304 provides, in part: 
If the offence has been committed in the House, the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the' question, on a motion being made, no amendment, adjournment or debate being allowed- 
It is a courtesy of which the honourable member for Gippsland did not take advantage. He was given ah opportunity to withdraw, but in a calculated and insulting manner he refused to do so. He was determined to be a martyr and at all costs to get his name in the newspapers tomorrow. You have been very tolerant, Mir  Speaker.  The Opposition has . been taking advantage of your good nature and tolerance. I would like now to quote what was said by honourable members opposite on your election as  Mr Speaker..  Before I do so, I remind honourable members that you were, the unanimous choice of this House. Your integrity and honesty are such that the Opposition did not oppose your election. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said: 
We will not interject while, you are speaking provided that you do not speak for too long. We will be courteous at all times, provided that you do not provoke us. 
Listen to this - 
Further, we will be parliamentarians at all times, no matter what the circumstances. 
That was the assurance given by the Opposition to you,  Mr Speaker.  You were the unanimous choice. Nobody doubts your integrity. This Parliament placed that on record by your election. The honourable member for Gippsland should have learned, as I have learned in a long period in Parliament, that there is one chap you cannot argue with anywhere and that 
Is the referee. As parliamentarians, we know that the  Speaker  must be obeyed and his decisions carried out. Whether he is right or wrong, if one does not obey his dicta one finishes up where 3 honourable members have finished up today. That is quite right, according to the Standing Orders of the Parliament. 
In fairness to you,  Mr Speaker,  I point out that a study of the questions that have been asked in this session shows that your tolerance has always been tested. As you know, questions should not contain arguments, inferences, imputations, ironical expressions, hypothetical matter or things of that nature. Nevertheless, questions do contain such matter because honourable members opposite take advantage of your good humour. In today's incident, the relevance lay not so much in the words as in the emphasis behind them, in the manner of approach and in the deliberate intention not to. withdraw. In those factors lay the responsibility for the suspension of 3 honourable members. The Leader of the Opposition put an unusual proposition to the Parliament. He suggested that ex-Prime Ministers and ex-Ministers are entitled to special consideration. 
The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  said 'You ought to be ashamed of yourself not only to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  but also to you,  Mr Speaker.  In other words, he deliberately flouted your ruling, showed disrespect to the Parliament and insulted the Parliament. Let me say that the right honourable gentleman, as an ex-Prime Minister, ought to know better. 1 for one will not be giving him special consideration. The honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  is another ex-Minister. It was said These are ex-Ministers. They are above the law and should not abide by the rules of this place'. Why should they not? Each of those honourable members deliberately said 'You should be ashamed of yourself and each was paid the courtesy of an opportunity to withdraw. They flouted that courtesy. 
Much has been said this morning about the Prime Minister. He went off to farewell a visiting Head of State. Insinuations were made by honourable members opposite which do little credit to them. They should take note of the attitude of the Prime Minister. This morning when you asked him to withdraw, 

 Mr Speaker, he set an inspiring example to honourable members opposite. (Opposition members interjecting) 
Do not get excited. I can wait. I am speaking in grievance debate time. Take your time and interject. 
I suggest that the Leader of the Opposition should tell us whether those honourable members are to be given special consideration. Similarly, the right honourable member for Richmond and Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said: Why cannot a fellow interject now and again?' I remind him that Standing Orders provide that all interjections are disorderly. He has been here long enough to know that. I advise honourable members opposite - this applies particularly to the 3 honourable members who have been suspended, when they return - to read the Standing Orders so that they will know precisely where they stand. 
To sum up the matter, what is relevant is not so much the words that are used as the manner in which they are used. No  Speaker  could be tolerant enough to allow all honourable members to be roaring out, in a way which is meant to be offensive, the words you should be ashamed of yourself or any other words. With due respect to those honourable members who have been suspended from the Parliament temporarily, I suggest that they are at fault - not you,  Mr Speaker.  Only your tolerance and understanding have allowed you to go so far without taking appropriate action. I do not wish to say more on this question because I believe it is not hard to defend the unanimous choice of the Parliament. It is not hard to defend a tolerant person who has been described by honourable members opposite in that way. I know what you go through,  Mr Speaker.  I have been in Opposition and I know what honourable members try to do to Speakers. Consequently, the honourable members who have been suspended today should learn a lesson and know that you, above all people in this Parliament, must be obeyed. You cannot allow honourable members to say anything that reflects on you, the Prime Minister or the Parliament if they say it with an intent to discredit. As this is Grievance Day and I do not want to take up the time of private members, as honourable members opposite wish to do,I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
I ask leave of the House to move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent - 
the Prime Minister moving forthwith a motion of confidence in and support of the AttorneyGeneral; 
during the debate on the motion reference being made to the subject matter of order of the day No. 9; and 
upon the conclusion of the consideration of the motion, order of the day No. 9 being then called on and disposed of without further debate. 
 I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent - 
the Prime Minister moving forthwith a motion of confidence in and support of the AttorneyGeneral; 
during the debate on the motion reference being made to the subject matter of order of the day No. 9; and 
upon the conclusion of the consideration of the motion, order of the day No. 9 being then called on and disposed of without further debate. 
I have moved this motion because it concerns a matter of very great importance in the view of the Government. We feel that it should be dealt with expeditiously and in a way that will allow all concerned to express their views and at the same time allow debate to proceed without undue delay in any respect. The matter to which the motion refers has received considerable publicity and certainly it is a matter of vital importance to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  and to the Government. We see no reason why we should not proceed with this motion forthwith in view of statements made by the Leader of the Opposition and members opposite of their pronounced intention to debate this matter today immediately the Parliament assembled. 
The motion I have moved will give to members of the Opposition the opportunity that they demanded over the weekend and at other times for an immediate debate when the Parliament assembled today. Nothing could be more prompt than for me, on behalf of the Government, to accept one minute after the Parliament has met the challenge of those who sit opposite and to give them the opportunity to debate this issue. I see no reason why my motion to suspend Standing Orders should not be agreed to. Order of the day No. 9 on the business paper, which is headed Croatian Terrorism', is inevitably linked with the subject we are seeking to discuss in regard to the Attorney-General. Does any honourable member opposite believe that he could debate the question relating to the AttorneyGeneral without referring to item No. 9 on the business paper? It is to prevent the honourable members opposite from so consistently being ruled out of order that we have very generously included in the motion the opportunity to debate the issues in toto. Honourable members will be able to link together the various matters under discussion, make speeches that will be easily comprehended and at the same time make full and complete reference to what is under discussion. It cannot be said that the Government is not giving ample time for such a discussion. The Government is prepared to give the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  45 minutes in which to discuss these questions. That should enable him to cover them. 
I do not wish to take up the time of the House unduly. I summarise by saying that the purposes of this motion to suspend Standing Orders are, firstly, to give members of the Opposition the opportunity to fulfil their pronounced desire to debate, immediately the Parliament met, the questions that are under discussion and, secondly, to allow them to make their speeches in recognition of the fact that they must refer to item 9 on the notice paper. There is no intention to evade anything. This is a clear declaration of where the Government stands on this matter. Honourable members opposite have the opportunity to take this up. They have asked for it and I would have thought that they were so anxious to debate the subject that they would agree to the suspension of Standing Orders. But am I now to take it that you are running away from this debate? Am I to take it that you do not want to face up to the brutal use of the majority in another place-- 
The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  look so solemn that one really would think that they meant the motion that has been moved. The only purpose of this motion to call the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  before the Bar of this House is to delay the business of the House. Today we have seen this House pass a resolution of confidence in the Attorney-General, and consistently on this side of the Parliament, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and others have answered- 
I suggest that honourable members opposite should be patient and I will enlighten them. The real purpose behind the motion moved by the right honourable member for Higgins is to delay the business of the House and to take the minds of the people off the guilty consciences of those who sit opposite. For years honourable members opposite, particularly the right honourable member for Higgins, as I shall show, have gone easy on the terrorists. In addition, honourable members opposite have moved this motion as a diversion. Who would not want to forget the wrangles going on between the Country Party, the Democratic Labor Party and the Liberal Party? Who would not want to put that away? Who would not want to forget the dissension that exists in their ranks and to put away from the public mind the fact that they are split to ribbons from one end of this country to the other and in the Parliament? Everybody knows about this and this motion is a diversionary tactic that honourable members opposite hope will succeed. They are desperate men. Of course they are looking for issues. Honourable members opposite refuse to believe the truth. 1 wonder why we do not ask  Senator Greenwood  to come before the Bar of the House in order that he might tell us what he has done with the stolen documents that he has hidden in his garage. Of course, no mention is made of this. 
The right honourable member for Higgins talked about civil liberties. He was a party to that infamous propaganda which was put out during an election and which listed as a communist every person who walked down the street with a communist. We were defeated in that election a few years ago because of the policy of guilt by association employed by the right honourable member for Higgins and those who sit behind him. Everybody knows that the motion moved by the right honourable member for Higgins is a phoney approach to the subject. It is guilt by association. Honourable members opposite have been answered again and again in this Parliament. 
Documents galore have been produced, and still they refuse to believe the truth. They wish to take the matter to another place so that they may have an opportunity to use again the brute force of numbers that they used so undemocratically in that place. Honourable members opposite pretend that they are defending public servants. Public servants waited 23 years for the then Government to do something for them. That Government would not even give them decent working conditions, yet the Opposition now says that it is defending the good name of public servants. What a phoney proposition. . 
Let us examine what was done by the right honourable member for Higgins and see how he went easy on these terrorists. I have a document signed by Patrick Shaw, First Assistant Secretary, dated 27th August 1964 and dealing with Croat terrorists in Australia. 
The document is dated 27th August 1964 and it states: 
In the past few months there has been considerable activity towards drafting some public statement which would answer the numerous questions on the parliamentary notice paper concerning the activities of Croat national groups in Australia. As a background there have been further investigations into the activities of these groups by both ASIO and the Commonwealth Police. My impression is that the Commonwealth Police reports have been more thorough, accurate and revealing than those of ASIO. An important point in the investigations was the turning up by the Commonwealth Police of a film put together by the Croat organisation in Australia, purporting to show the extent of the Australian Government's military and political support of their terrorist activities. This film was obviously designed for use overseas and it brought a violent reaction from the Attorney-General when he saw it. At that time  Mr Snedden  was about to issue a fairly strong statement in his own name which has been approved In principle by the Prime Minister just prior to bis departure overseas. 
Let honourable members listen to this: 
However,  Senator Gorton  objected because of its possible unpopularity amongst Government back benchers and there have been a number of attempts to redraft a watered down version of the condemnatory statement which contained threats of legal action against terrorist groups. 
In other words, the right honourable member for Higgins was going easy on his friends in the terrorist organisations in this country; he was going easy on the Croats. That confidential document indicates what a phoney argument he has advanced in this Parliament today. It is a smokescreen by the right honourable member for Higgins. He would not have moved this motion in the Parliament if he had had the numbers, because the last thing he wants is an investigation into how he and the previous Ministry went easy on those who are terrorists in this country. Of course, honourable members opposite will move a motion in this House only when they know that they cannot carry it. 
I would love to see the secret files on the activities of members of that Ministry in regard to terrorists. At that time  Senator Gorton  did not want anything done because those great civil liberties fighters who sit behind him would have been embarrassed by action being taken against their fascist friends in the ranks of the Croats in this country. This is the reason why the motion to call the AttorneyGeneral before the Bar of this House has been moved.' Have honourable members ever heard anything more phoney in their lives? I only wish we had the time to debate in this Parliament the unlimited things that should be said in respect of this matter. But there is legislation to be passed by this House. There is legislation to which we must give effect. We are not like the previous Government. We are doing things. We do not have idle hours to sit here and not put measures through. The fact is that the motion is an attempt to delay the House. It is what might be called a phoney apology for what has been done. The Party opposite has been cut to ribbons by the allegations by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  If anybody was demolished today in this Parliament it would be the members of the Opposition when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had finished speaking in the previous debate. I have never seen such relieved men opposite as when we said that they could have only  3  speakers in the debate. Immediately the Prime Minister finished talking they all walked out from the other side of the chamber. You could have fired a shotgun in the direction of the other side of the chamber without hitting anyone because not one of those great freedom fighters remained to hear the rest of their case. Is it any wonder that we treat this motion as a phoney proposition? 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who is  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, has to try to fight his way back to the top somehow.  His  Leader is only the third most important man in the Opposition. Where that puts him, I do not know. He is grasping at straws. The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  the great militant, came forward and tried to tell us that he will fight for civil liberties. The most oppressed people in the country are those who are represented by members of the Country Party. There is no democracy in that Party or in its administration generally. Here today members of the Country Party are telling members on this side of the Parliament what ought to be done. I would have liked the right honourable member for Higgins to have moved that we call to the door of the Parliament some of the great capitalists of this country so that we could hear how they are exploiting the Australian people through prices and such factors. I would like to hear from somebody like  Senator Greenwood.  He probably could give us a lot on this matter that he is keeping hidden. He must have something to hide because he has pinched the papers and has hidden them in his garage. That is the situation. What a phoney proposition to put up. 
I will get back to the motion. I name it for what it is - an attempt to hold up the business of the House. I issue to honourable members opposite not a threat but a word of friendly warning. The Government will not tolerate the business of the House being taken out of its hands. The legislation of this country must go through and it will go through. Tactics of this nature should be judged by the public for what they are. They have nothing to do with national security or the Attorney-General. They are a deliberate attempt to hold up the business of the House and the progressive legislative program of this Government. Keep in mind that such tactics will not be tolerated. Learn early that if you want to debate the big issues, do not waste time on frivolous motions like the one we have just debated. 
There is no need for the right honourable gentleman to ask under the Standing Orders. I would have tabled the document if he had asked by interjection. 

 Mr GORTON (Higgins) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Gorton's)  be agreed to. 
I do not intend to detain the House for long but I want to clarify the matter for the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who moved the motion and the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  who seconded it. The motion is a frivolous one. It has not been supported by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  or the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  In other words, it has been moved by 2 discarded - and quite rightly so - ex-Ministers who are sitting in the second-last row of the House at the present time. They are not quite far enough out of the House. Tonight we have had the spectacle of 2 ex-Ministers holding up the business of this Parliament. Seeing their performance in the Parliament on this question one does not wonder why they are where they are today. The honourable member for Curtin spoke about what had not been done today. The Leader of the Opposition spoke on this matter for one hour today - 45 minutes on one motion and 15 minutes on another which related to the suspension of Standing Orders. That is a pretty fair go in a Parliament which is limited for time. When honourable mem; ben opposite were in Government they did not give us such a fair go. 
The. honourable member spoke about the gag. Let me remind honourable members what a former Prime Minister - one who was silly enough to select him for a Ministry - had to say about it. The following is part of a speech by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  on 25th November 1969. He said: 
But what I think is more important ls this play upon the fact that the gag has been moved as frequently today as it has been. It is always within the capacity of an Opposition, if it acts stupidly enough, to force a gag to be moved. 
Let me repeat it. He said: 
It is always within the capacity of an Opposition, if it acts stupidly enough, to force a gag to be moved. 
Nobody would wonder why the gag has to be moved. The stupidity de luxe of the 2 honourable members opposite caused those kind of things to happen. Do not forget that the previous Government moved the gag 200 or 300 times. If we moved it on the hour every hour we would still be miles behind when this Parliament finished. 
The honourable member for Mackellar stated that all kinds of things should have happened. But what he did not realise was that this Government is giving honourable members free speech. For instance, Grievance Day is always provided except, as happened the other day, when the Opposition deliberately disrupts it. Not only did the Opposition prevent question time but it also stopped the Grievance Day debate being called on because it sought to disrupt the proceedings of the House. Private members' rights were infringed. That was not the fault of the Government; it was the responsibility of honourable members opposite. The other night, by deliberate tactics designed to disrupt the passage of legislation, the Opposition forced the abandonment of the adjournment debate on purpose to show its fighting qualities. Honourable members opposite fight so much amongst themselves that it is public knowledge. So why do they try to impress people with this lot of rot that they are going on with on this occasion? This is the second occasion in succession in this Parliament on which a motion of this type has been moved. Let me give honourable members opposite due warning. I am a very patient fellow but I will not be for long. The Opposition may move frivolous motions. It may hold up the proceedings of this Parliament. It may do so deliberately for all kinds of reasons. But I say that under the Standing Orders no government will allow it to continue to do so in an irresponsible way. 
As I said earlier, not one responsible member on that side of the Parliament - they are pretty hard to find - supports this motion. The initiation of this motion has been left to 2 honourable members who have been discarded and discredited by their own Party. Yet this Government is expected to put up with this kind of conduct in the Parliament. I would have throught that the honourable member for Mackellar was old enough to know better. He has had a pretty good run. He ought to take things quietly because blood pressure rises in such circumstances. The only person that he influences and disturbs in this Parliament when he talks is himself. We on this side of the House know that he is up to these antics. When the honourable member was on the back bench he was always a firebrand. But he was a quiet sort of chap when he was emancipated and elevated to the Ministry. Now he is trying to do the same thing in reverse. But we on this side of the Parliament are a wake-up to the honourable member. I suggest to him that, as we are abolishing the means test and doing all sorb of things that he wants us to do, he ought to have more respect for the Government. The honourable member should set a better example for the younger members on that side of the House and not try to hold up the deliberations of this great chamber. I do not like to say these things in a hurtful manner because in a strange kind of way I have a lot of respect for the honourable member but we cannot allow this kind of conduct to continue without putting the record straight. 
I just say those few brief words and I ask honourable members opposite to ponder on the words of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  If an Opposition is stupid enough it can force a lot of gags to be moved, but in this Parliament we have a lot of legislation to be passed which is tremendously important to the country people, the city people and overall to the Australian people. Therefore we do not want to be interrupted by frivolous motions of this kind. That is why tonight I put the record straight. This Government has no desire to apply the gag. It has no desire to stop discussion. 
The honourable member mentioned the Commonwealth Electoral Bill. Thirty-three honourable members spoke on that Bill. The debate went for nearly 13 hours on a Bill which consisted of 5 clauses, only 2 of which had any importance. In 1965 on a Bill consisting of 18 clauses there were only about 40 speakers who took part in a debate which lasted about 11 hours and we finished it at 4 o'clock in the morning. Honourable members opposite are the democrats who talk about us. In any case, the Australian Country Party ran out of speakers and one of its members had to talk twice. When honourable members opposite want to talk about these things they should do a bit of homework on them first. I heard the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  say while sitting at the table: 'For heaven's sake, give me something to say on the final clause. The Country Party has nobody else to talk'. 
My friend the honourable member for Chifley overheard that statement. Let us not have all this rot about debates being stopped. Time has been set aside for Grievance Day and for General Business. Next Thursday the honourable member for Mackellar may move his motions - both of them - if he wishes to do so. This is unprecedented. This Parliament stands for open government and free speech. What is more, we do not steal documents and hide them in a garage. They are here for all to see. We table them. I thought I would put the record straight and bring honourable members up to date and just warn them in the interests of democracy in this country not to waste the time of the Parliament. Honourable members opposite have all had a good salary rise. Why do they not act as though they deserve it? If the people outside do not realise that Opposition members are not worth the money they are getting, they soon will if there are any more antics like this. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
The answer to the first question is yes; to the second question, yes; and to the third question, also yes. If I may elaborate, for the benefit of the honourable member, I anticipated a question of this nature today because when the Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales is perpetuating one of the greatest gerrymanders of all time I think it appropriate that the nation should know about it. I understand that last night in the New South Wales Parliament - I mention this in view of legislation pending here - at 9.15 the Government introduced a Bill, used its numbers with brute force, as it were, suspended Standing Orders and forced all stages of the Bill through the Parliament within 3 hours. At the time the Bill was introduced members were not able to obtain a copy of the Bill for the second reading stage. The Bill provides also, in defiance of the Act, to have a redistribution of boundaries in a 4-year period instead of a 6-year period as is laid down. Furthermore, it increases from 15 per cent to 20 per cent the margin of disparity in electorates. I might say also that this is the fourth time since 1965 inclusive that the State Government has had an electoral gerrymander. 
 The Opposition seems determined not to ask questions this session and, of course, far be it from me to take away from that right. However, I must take a few moments to reply to a very distinguished member of this Parliament. After all he has been in this Parliament for almost 20 years and was in the State Parliament for15 years. When a member such as the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  rises with such indignation at my protest against a gerrymander why should I not answer him in some way by speaking to the motion before the Parliament. The honourable member has moved dissent from your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  in relation to standing order 142. Standing order 142 says: 
Questions may be put to a Minister relating to public affairs with which he is officially connected, to proceedings pending in the House, or to any matter of administration for which he is responsible. 
Does the honourable member say that I have no responsibility in connection with State officials in my administration of the Commonwealth Electoral Act? Does he not realise that the States compile joint electoral rolls with the Commonwealth, the major part of the cost of which the Commonwealth bears? Does he not know that the boundaries of State electorates come within the concern of redistribution commissioners appointed under the Commonwealth Electoral Act? Does he know that I am responsible, once I walk out of it, for the malapportionment in State electorates if I let matters like this go unchallenged? 
In every way my Department is very much concerned with this matter. I have just signed an agreement with the Western Australian Government on joint rolls. So why do State electoral boundaries not come within my concern? Why am I not entitled to have a question of that nature asked? The honourable member for Bradfield, who raised this matter with all his great forthrightness and justice, now sits as idle and as silent as can be over the greatest gerrymander that, as he knows, has ever been put on in New South Wales. Why does not the honourable member stand up and have a go at those who destroy every democratic principle in Australia? Why sit there and bubble and burst over what the Country Party is doing in New South Wales but say nothing about it? After 35 years in Parliament the honourable member, with righteous indignation, stands up and tries to say that I have nothing to do with electoral boundaries. 

 Mr Speaker, your judgment was wise and sound. If it was not the honourable member for Bradfield who moved this motion, I would say that this was just another attempt to disrupt the proceedings of this Parliament. That is why I will not take a lot of time in speaking to the motion. But I defy any honourable member to study the Commonwealth Act and the State Acts and to prove that I am not closely connected with the administration of State electoral matters as well as Federal electoral matters. I do not have the Act with me, but I can say that subdivisional boundaries have to be taken into consideration. The plot in New South Wales, to which the honourable member offers no objection, is sponsored by the Country Party in its desperation to destroy one vote one value, to keep electorates malapportioned and in every way to perpetuate in this country the most undemocratic processes. I am worried about the honourable member for Bradfield. He is almost desperate today with indignation. He is roused; he is fuming. If I did not know that he is a man of sober habits and good intent, I would think that something had stung him. The motion of dissent has been moved in a fit of pique because I have unveiled for the public what was done in the New South Wales Parliament last night- 
And how the Liberal and Country Parties pushed the legislation through. In the dead of night the Liberal and Country parties got to work in New South Wales. In the dead of night they drew up new electoral boundaries. They gagged everybody who tried to speak. They want nobody to know what went on in the darkness of the night in Macquarie Street. The honourable member for Bradfield does not worry about what was done in the dead of night in Macquarie Street. In years gone by he was there when it was being done but he did not know that it was happening. Now that I have revealed the situation he has woken up to what goes on in the place whence he came and he wants to do something about it in this Parliament. Far be it for me to take up the time of the House during question time, other than to reply to the honourable member and to say that I would like him as a lawyer to prove to me that this matter is not within the compass of my portfolio. In addition, if he cannot present a better defence than he has presented this afternoon in respect of this matter, then certainly I would not want to be defended by him in a court of law.  Mr Speaker,  I support your ruling. It is wise. It shows a true spirit of democracy and it is in keeping with the highest traditions of this Parliament and the great men who have occupied your position before you. 
Government supporters - No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) see attached tables. 
 Never have I heard a more phoney or hypocritical motion moved in this Parliament. I ask honourable members to look at the notice paper for today. It contains 2 motions by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  both of them important and both of them deserving of the attention of this House. Consequently, the Government desired to allow debate on both of these motions in the time permitted for general business. But the honourable member for Mackellar, in his usual fashion, endeavoured to sidetrack the Parliament by making sure that there were 2 motions there and, in that way, to complicate the position. The Government, not desiring to have  Mr Speaker  waiting on a decision on the second motion - that  Mr Speaker  ought to be ashamed of himself - and not seeking to stop discussion on the other motion, saw no way out other than to divide the time available this morning between those 2 motions. 
I was approached by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  who suggested to me that, if the motion that the honourable member for Mackellar had submitted in regard to  Mr Speaker  being ashamed of himself was withdrawn, debate on the other matter could probably proceed until 12.45 p.m. I reluctantly and sorrowfully say that, against my better judgment, I accepted the word of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that the honourable member for Mackellar would keep his word. What has happened is precisely what I thought would happen. First of all the honourable member put in a withdrawal motion of the second motion and has now withdrawn the withdrawal. I should have known that the honourable member would move his motion, take up the full time of the morning, withdraw the withdrawal again and put it on the notice paper. I am not doing him an injustice, but that is rotten and contemptible conduct. 
I withdraw the remarks but the facts are indisputable. I was asked this morning to let the honourable member go to that length. Then when the matter came before the Parliament - I am sorry I cannot use certain words - the honourable member stood up and said that the Government had blackmailed him into calling off his motion. That was a most dishonest approach. That is something that no selfrespecting leader of this House could tolerate. I formally advise the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that never again will 1 take his word for any arrangements made with the honourable member for Mackellar. The real reason behind what has occurred is that the Opposition did not want me to expose the falsity of what the honourable member for Mackellar was going to put up. It did not want me to lay open the charge and the fact that he had no support on either side of the chamber for his motion except for himself and probably one or two others. The action was subterfuge in order to destroy arrangements which the Government had entered into in the interests of this Parliament. The honourable member for Mackellar has now deviously withdrawn his withdrawal because he wants the  Speaker  to be under a cloud because of a subterfuge which does very little credit to the honourable member. If that is how he treats the high office that the  Speaker  occupies in this Parliament, thank God for this country that he is sitting on the Opposition side of the House. 
I would just say to honourable members opposite that the Government has no desire to avoid debate on the abolition of the means test. We have been in government for only 3 or 4 months and already the means test has become well on the way to being abolished, despite the fact that the former Minister, the honourable member for Mackellar, and the  Government he  supported had been in office for about 23 years and had done nothing about it. I rise in this debate only to show up the falsity of the charges of honourable members opposite. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition knows full well that what I say is correct. Is he to be a party to allowing the honourable member for Mackellar to restore the motion against the  Speaker  to the business paper? The honourable member for Mackellar was called on to remove it this morning but instead put up one of his offsiders to move a motion to delay the time of the House so that the motion against the  Speaker  would not be moved today. The real purpose behind this  motion is to  stop the honourable member for Mackellar from moving the motion against the  Speaker  for which he knows he has no support on either side of this Parliament. 
It is to get him off the hook. To prove that I am right, I state that the honourable member for Mackellar has withdrawn his withdrawal. I invite the honourable member to debate the motion forthwith if he sees fit. 
The honourable member for Hotham knows as well as I do when the time for this debate expires. He knows that the honourable member for Mackellar would stand up in the middle of it, start to move the motion and say: 'It is over till another day'. 
If he were given 5 weeks he would go back on his word. Would the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  as a former Leader of the House put up with the things with which I put up this morning and still expect to be able to take the word of the honourable member for Mackellar for anything? 
I can assure the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that the honourable member for Mackellar told the  Clerk  that he has withdrawn the withdrawal. That is precisely what I told the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition he would do when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition came to me to negotiate, in good faith, for which I excuse him, on behalf of the honourable member for Mackellar. You cannot negotiate for uncontrollable or unprincipled men. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. The Leader of the House will withdraw that last remark. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I respect the Chair, unlike honourable members opposite and I withdraw the remark. I mentioned these facts so that the House may be fully informed' of the evasive tactics of the honourable member for Mackellar. He does not have any support for the motion he moved. Now, in the face of everybody, by withdrawing the withdrawal he has shown that he meant to double-cross the Government on this issue and unfortunately, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition also. We both have suffered from the honourable member's machinations. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition put the matter to me in good faith and with all honesty. The honourable member for Mackellar, for whom the matter was being put. had made his mind up early that he would make a donkey out of Daly and Lynch at the same time. That is precisely what he attempted to do this morning. Therefore I put the record straight. Whatever may be said in respect of the social services legislation is no fault of honourable members on this side of the House that the matter has been delayed. In fact, T had even arranged for the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and others to participate in the debate. But I felt that I could not allow the conduct of the honourable member for Mackellar to go unchallenged, particularly when the arrangements made were repudiated. 
I shall not take up the time of the House further. I have put the record straight. 1  regret  what has happened. If honourable members opposite want to avoid this kind of thing in the future I suggest that to put two motions on the notice paper for the same day makes it extremely difficult. But with all the goodwill in the world we hope that both motions on the business paper for today will be disposed of because we would like a vote on both general business matters. Both are important and deserve the consideration of the House. I regret that because of the conduct of the honourable member for Mackellar a very important motion will not be dealt with this morning, to the eternal discredit of the honourable member and those associated with him. The cloud still remains and of course the matter will have to be finalised in Government business in due course without undue delay. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I ask leave of the House to move a motion to enable consideration of general business to continue until 2.45 p.m. 
by leave - There has been considerable doubt today as to whether members of the House might be able to reach their destinations when they leave this place this week because of uncertain travel arrangements. I understand that the transport arrangements in fact will be normal tomorrow. However, because a number of members had made arrangements earlier tonight in view of the uncertain circumstances, the House will adjourn at 9.45 p.m. tonight so that those members can fulfil obligations entered into with aircraft companies and others in regard to transport. I hope that the House will approve of this arrangement without debate because it is one that was entered into in good faith. Whilst this course of action would otherwise not now have been necessary we should appreciate that members have booked out of hotels and so on. So I think it is necessary that the House should adjourn at 9.45 p.m. Having said so much, I hope that honourable members opposite will remember kindly in later days the action we are taking now because we might be in more troublous circumstances then. 
I too wish briefly but nonetheless sincerely to be associated with the motion of sympathy moved on the passing of the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden. I had the opportunity to serve with him in this Parliament for a very long time, and I endorse the sentiments that have been expressed from all sections of this Parliament and the compliments that have been paid to him as a man, as a personality and as an outstanding Australian. Of course, there is a legion of stories of him. I remember on one occasion campaigning in a Country Party electorate in New South Wales with my colleague, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, and Artie Fadden arrived one night 
He said: "The ALP organiser gave me these dodgers for you to distribute in this town*. We opened them up and delivered them, and they were not at all complimentary to the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden. He not only delivered the goods but carried them a very long way. I think his earthy approach to these matters is what endeared him to people. In fact, if I might say so - and I do not want it to be taken light heartedly on an occasion like this - I think he was the personality in the Country Party that drew me to it so much. In any case, I know that he would not mind that quip. Today, with others, I record my sadness, but to have known him is a great pleasure and to have served in the Parliament with him was also a great pleasure. I think that the sentiments that have been expressed pay a fitting tribute to a really great personality in Australian politics. 
I am not unmindful of the fact that there is a motion on the notice paper under the heading 'General Business', order of the day No. 3, set down for Thursday, 10th May 1973. I point out to the House that it is the general practice of this Government to allow motions of this kind under General Business to be taken to a vote on all occasions. This is contrary to the policy followed by the previous Administration. This Bill, of course, is not a Government measure. It is one on which members on this side of the Parliament and, I understand, on the other side, are to have a free vote. Consequently, the Government has no control over the actions of its members or of other members of the House. When a motion is introduced, moved and seconded, it becomes the responsibility of the House to decide whether the debate shall proceed that day because under Standing Orders the debate automatically expires at 1.45 p.m., and additionally Standing Orders provide that after it has been moved and seconded it should be adjourned to another day. I believe this motion is of importance. It has created considerable interest throughout the community and is one which should not be allowed to remain on the notice paper for any great length of time without a decision of this House being taken. Speaking for myself, whilst I say that the actual substance of the motion is not the business of the Government, the conduct of the House is the business of the Government. I would hope, subject to the concurrence of the Parliament, that a vote will be taken on the measure on the day it is debated. 
I move: 
That the modification of the Senate be disagreed to and the following modification be made in place thereof: 
Paragraph (5), omit the paragraph, insert the following paragraph: 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the Committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister or by the Leader of the Government in the Senate'. 
That a message be sent to the Senate requesting the reconsideration by the Senate of the resolution in respect of the modification made by the House in place of the Senate modification. 
By way of explanation 1 mention that the Government does not take exception to the principle implicit in the Senate's modification of the original resolution. That principle. 1 apprehend, is that a committee should elect its own  Chairman  from among Government supporters appointed to it. We do feel, however, that in the case of joint committees it is not appropriate for one House of the Parliament to say that the  chairman  should be chosen from members of one House only. In the present case, we have been asked to agree that the  Chairman  should be a member of this House. In another case we are to be asked to consider - that is, in relation to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory - the other place has said that the  Chairman  should be a senator. If members of joint committees are to elect their own chairmen, surely it is consistent with the principle behind the proposal that members of a committee should have as wide a choice as possible. That is the principle behind the motion I have moved. 
 I thank the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  for his understanding of the situation in relation to the messages from the Senate about this matter and the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 1 move: 
That the modification of the Senate be disagreed to and the following modification be made in place thereof: 
Paragraph (5), omit the paragraph, insert the following paragraph: 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister or by the Leader of the Government in the Senate'. 
That a message be sent to the Senate requesting the reconsideration by the Senate of the resolution in respect of the modification made by the House in place of the Senate modification. 
The explanation I gave in relation to the previous message from the Senate is also applicable to this matter,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
-I seek the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in relation to this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the States Grants (Universities) Bill and the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2), as they are associated measures. Separate questions may be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that the House permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Is it the wish of the House to follow that course? There being no objection I will allow that course to be followed. 
The Government believes quite frankly that the debate on this issue could be spread over a lengthy period. But I point out to the honourable member that under this Government every issue brought forward by private members has been given time not only to be debated but also for a vote to be taken. That was never done under the previous Government. Had this Bill been introduced by a private member in the time of the previous Government, the debate on the Bill would not have extended beyond 12.45 p.m. and would then have remained on the notice paper until the dissolution of the Parliament. The Government has made its position clear. The Government has a legislative program to carry out and, naturally, time must be set aside for all measures. But unless members are prepared to sit indefinitely - say, right through until Christmas - it is impossible  to  allow full debate,  on  major Bills. All things considered, the Government believes, in view of the great public interest which has  Deen  expressed, that this measure should not be left without a decision being taken. We have therefore agreed as a Party that we will not interfere with the rights of members to vote as they think fit. But the Government, in charge, of the business of the House, has decided that a given time will be provided for debate and in addition time will be allowed for votes to be taken so that the views of honourable members on this Bill can be determined. 
I suggest that if honourable members opposite are agreeable, we might even consider, say, a Friday, a Saturday or a Monday sitting to give more time to debating the Bill. However I do not think there would be much enthusiasm for this suggestion from the other side. But the fact is that honourable, members opposite will be given the opportunity in principle to declare their views on this matter. As I said, the time for debate could well  De  extended to cover days but if the honourable member for Bradfield has any suggestions as to how we could provide the time under the sitting hours of this Parliament to allow every member of this Parliament to express his views on this issue, I would be pleased to hear from him. Let me summarise by saying that the Government is doing something that honourable members opposite never did when they were in government. We will be allowing this issue to come to a vote and we will give honourable members the right to express their opinions and the right to participate in a debate and to reach a decision. This in itself is a democratic forward step. 
I move: 
That, in lieu of the times fixed for the meeting of the House in the resolution of 1 March 1973, for the remainder of this period of sittings, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday at ten o'clock a.m., or such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the Chair, on each Wednesday at eleven o'clock a.m. and on each Thursday at ten o'clock a.m. 
The purpose of this motion is to provide additional time for dealing with the growing pressure of government business that must be dealt with before the end of the sittings. In addition to the Bills that are already before the House, we expect to have a considerable number of new and important measures introduced in the next week or so. I know that the proposed new arrangements will cause some inconvenience, not least, I might say, to Ministers, as we shall now be obliged to have Cabinet meetings on Mondays rather than Tuesdays, as at present. Nonetheless, I am sure the changes I propose will be preferred to such alternatives as sitting beyond 11 p.m., Monday or Friday sittings, or extending the length of the sittings. In particular, I believe that members would wish that, if at all possible, we should be able to continue the system introduced at the beginning of the sittings whereby the House adjourns each evening at 11 p.m. I may not have won universal acclaim for the way in which 1 have run this place, but I have had no complaints on that particular score. 
It is proposed that the House should now sit for an unbroken period of 4 weeks to Thursday, 24 May, before adjourning for the winter recess. I hope that we can look to the co-operation of all members in achieving this objective and that we will not need to consider further extensions to the sittings in order to ensure that the House deals with the Government's program of legislation. The revised sitting arrangements I am now putting before the House are much in line with the arrangements under which the House operated for most of the 1972 Budget sittings. Members who were present at that time will recall that these arrangements, introduced by my predecessor as Leader of the House, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  worked quite satisfactorily. I might mention that the Australian Labor Party, in Opposition, did not oppose the introduction of those sitting arrangements. 
It might be interesting to honourable members if I were to point out some comparisons between the Budget sittings of 1972  -  the last under the previous Government - and the current sittings. In the 9 weeks of the Budget sittings of 1972, the Parliament passed 81 Bills - rather more, I might say, than average. In the 10 weeks planned for these sittings we should exceed that figure somewhat. In the Budget 1972 sittings, grievance day was held once, and general business not at all. We do not intend to take time away from private members. Indeed, by sitting half an hour earlier on Thursdays we have added to the time for grievances and general business. 
The new sitting times for the House as from next Tuesday, once this motion has been passed, will be: Tuesdays  -  10 to 1, 2.15 to 6.15, 8 to 11, with the adjournment moved at 10.45; Wednesdays- 1 1 to 1, 2.15 to 6.15, 8 to 11, with the adjournment moved at 10.15; Thursdays- 10 to 1, 2.15 to 6.15, 8 to 11, with the adjournment moved at 10.15. 
If I might just elaborate on this point slightly, I should like to say that at the commencement of the Parliament, I indicated to the House the desire of the Government to allow reasonable time for discussion of legislation and advised that it was the wish of the 
Government to debate legislation at reasonable hours. The change of Government has therefore been remarkable for a number of things, quite apart from the huge legislative program which has been implemented. I list a few of them: The Parliament has not sat beyond 11 p.m. or into the early hours of the morning; adequate time has been given for questions, matters of urgency and adjournment debates; adjournment debates have taken place at a reasonable hour on 3 nights a week and in fact, on some occasions, the time set aside for this purpose has not been availed of by members, and only on one occasion due to deliberate disruption by certain , members of the Opposition, was it not possible to adjourn the House at 10.15 for the adjournment debate as intended; private members' business has been called upon on all occasions and sometimes extended and a vote taken on all occasions; and the Grievance debate has been called upon on all occasions. 
I might say that the members, staff and officers of the Parliament have benefited because of the sane and sensible sitting hours which have been decided upon. For those who might be interested in the curtailment of debates, I point out that in the twenty-seventh Parliament the gag was moved on 222 occasions by the honourable members who now sit opposite. In this Parliament on only 18 occasions has the gag been moved to curtail debate, in some cases because of the obstruction of honourable members who sit opposite. The number of Bills to be introduced will no doubt be a record at the time this session finishes. I mention, because I have heard it said otherwise, that the purpose of these changes is not to curtail debate but rather to extend the time and at reasonable hours provide for full and frank discussion and at the same time get the legislation passed. 
I hope the members of the Opposition will co-operate and subscribe to this point of view. Members on both sides of the Parliament have heavy commitments and I believe it is our task to fulfil our responsibilities in the Parliament, but at the same time not unduly prolong sittings for political purposes. There have, of course, been occasions during the session when disruptive tactics by the Opposition have I would say wasted considerable time. This, of course, is a parliamentary tactic that is quite within the province of those who sit opposite. I remind the House, however, that the Standing Orders provide for the Government to retaliate should this occur regularly in order to ensure that its legislative program may go through. 
Contrary to what may be thought by some, the decision to curtail the sitting hours to 11 p.m. was done in the interest of commonsense and consideration to members, staff and all concerned. It has been beneficial and in order that our program might be completed, I would appeal to the Opposition for a measure of co-operation in our efforts to carry out the Government's legislative program. Without therefore wishing to curtail the activities of members I ask that they be selective in the subjects they discuss, thus providing not only for more effective debate but also for the passing of outstanding legislation. I also mention that it is hoped that these hours will ensure that Parliament will adjourn on 24th May but in any case, it is intended that the House will remain in session without any breaks until the recess and the program is completed. I also mention for the benefit of honourable members that the Budget session will commence on 21st August 1973. 
in reply - As I missed an opportunity to have the wide and extensive education of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  the last part of his speech is pretty well lost on me. I want briefly to reply to what was said a few moments ago. I thank the honourable member for his compliments and I also thank the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  for his dubious praise. I remind honourable members, so that their hopes will not be raised too high, that despite the introduction of these hours they may still linger on into the cold months in this place. As has been said, these new hours may not provide the solution, but at least we hope that they will. I am one who subscribes to the view that in future the sittings of the Australian Parliament may have to be almost year round if we are to get through the legislation we want to discuss. That happens in the House of Commons and other Parliaments to a big extent. I think that that is a move that may have to be made. 
I cannot believe that the Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party was serious when he said that the Government has ruthlessly used the gag. Surely he has heard of his colleagues in the New South Wales Parliament who in the dead of night hammered into the ground, by the ruthless use of numbers, those standing for democracy. Surely he has seen how the ruthless use of numbers in another place in this Parliament has crushed and endeavoured to destroy the reputation of honourable members of the Labor Party. As I say, in this Parliament we would still have to move the gag 220 or 230 times to catch up on the number of gags moved by honourable members opposite. I witnessed the spectacle in this Parliament of a member of the Australian Country Party moving the gag against us in the early days of this session. Members of the Opposition cannot remember the bad things they did in government. 
Throughout the period since the election we have endeavoured in every way not to restrict debate in any way. But undoubtedly if honourable members persist in speaking on Bills which have very little content and putting in extensive lists of speakers merely for the purpose of holding up debates, we will have to act accordingly. As the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  said on one occasion, if an Opposition is silly enough of course it can force a government to use the gag. I say to honourable members opposite: 'You are honourable men. You are intelligent men. Do not place yourself in that category and force us to do those things. Be reasonable. Take your time over debates that matter and there will be no problem at all.' The solution to all these things is longer sittings, as honourable members have said, which as I say may mean very lengthy sitting periods. With the limited time that we have I think that there is a need for honourable members to co-operate, and the Government in its way will be charitable, benevolent, reasonable, decent and just. All honourable members know that when we on this side of the Parliament say these things we mean them, because all that Labor promises Labor will do. Having said so much, I have not the time to read again the full record of what has been done by the Government, but what has been done today is an endeavour sincerely to try to finish the business of this House with reasonable sitting hours, without curtailing debate in any way, and with the co-operation of honourable members opposite I know full well that it can be done, and I know they will give that co-operation to us. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Speaker,  I declare that the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1973 is an urgent Bill. 
I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill be as follows: la) For the second reading, until 5.30 p.m. this day. 
For the Committee stage, until 3.15 p.m. tomorrow. 
For the remaining stages, until 3.30 p.m. tomorrow. 
This is an important Bill and it is also urgent. It is one on which Party members on both sides desire to express their views within the limits of time but it must be realised however that, in a Parliament of 125 members with a heavy legislative program, to give every member or even those who desire to speak on this measure an opportunity to do so is not really possible. I have endeavoured without success to arrange with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  a mutually acceptable period of time for debate at the second reading and the Committee stages. It has therefore been left to me, in consultation with the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  to lay down a course of action which we believe will give, within reason, time for discussion. The proposed allotment of time as shown on the list 1 have sent to all honourable members will enable 12 members to speak on the second reading and not fewer than 34 at the Committee stage, a total of 46. If honourable members restrain themselves and are not too voluble 40 or 50 could participate, which would be to the benefit of the House. The time allowed for the second reading is 5 hours 55 minutes, for the Committee stage 5 hours 45 minutes and for the remaining stages 15 minutes, making a total of 11 hours 55 minutes. This will be one of the longest debates that has been held in this Parliament for some time. I wish to incorporate in Hansard for the benefit of honourable members a list of the debates that have taken place on the Conciliation and Arbitration Act between 1951 and 1970, giving details of the second reading and Committee stages of the legislation. Let me summarise the list. The average time allowed in the second reading stage was 4 hours and 3 minutes; the average time allowed in the Committee stages was 1 hour 22 minutes; and the total time for the whole debate was 5 hours 25 minutes. That was the average for the last 20-odd years. I seek leave of the House to incorporate that list which was presented to me by the  Clerk  of the Parliament. 
The more I hear the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  the more inclined 1 am to think that if the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  were to make retrospective the legislation which he proposes to introduce tomorrow I might vote for it. Today we have heard the prize humbug in the Parliament holding up the business of the Parliament. Before dealing with what he aid let me remind him of this. He is misusing the powers of this Parliament and the Standing Orders in respect of motions for the suspension of Standing Orders. I just warn him that if he continues I shall follow the infamous example of my Liberal predecessors in this House and move that only Ministers may move for the suspension of the Standing Orders, thus putting a stop to what is nothing more than the deliberate holding up of this Parliamant by one who knows no rules, no dignity, no respect, and who is merely here to disrupt the organisation of this Parliament. 
The honourable gentleman says he did not get a fair go in the Committee stage of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. Today the honourable member spoke 3 times in Committee. He spoke once yesterday. He had all his amendments incorporated in Hansard. What humbug he is. On the second reading debate of this Bill 13 honourable members spoke, 8 from the Opposition and 5 from the Government side. In the Committee stage 15 Government supporters spoke and there were 17 from the Opposition. That was yesterday. Today there were 18 speakers in the Committee stage. The length of the debate was 4 hours 40 minutes on the second reading as against an average time of 4 hours 3 minutes. A period of 3 hours 23 minutes was allowed for discussion in the Committee stage as against an average time of 1 hour 22 minutes which this great democrat supported. Overall the debate extended over about  12b  hours. The honourable gentleman today talks about what we are doing. Does he remember the time when the previous Government guillotined 17 Bills in 20 hours - one hour for each Bill - and he sat in his place as silent as the grave? And today in Opposition he is like a roaring lion. He was like a rabbit suffering from myxomatosis when he was on this side of the chamber. 
The honourable member and other honourable members on that side have had a lot to say about the suspension of the Standing Orders. Who will ever forget the way their Government restricted votes? Who will ever forget the health Bill of a couple of years ago when dozens and dozens of amendments were pushed through this Parliament under the guillotine but none was allowed to be moved by the then Opposition? Now that honourable members opposite are on the receiving end it is getting a bit hard to take. The honourable member knows nothing but disruptive tactics. Never in his time in this House has he contributed anything worth while to a debate. In matters of conciliation he sees a 'com' under every table. I am reminded also that with all his great outcry he still sat silently by while the Australian Country Party sold its wheat to Red China - as it was called at that time - and he did not utter a word of protest about that at any stage. The honourable member has 2 standards, one for the Opposition side and one for the Government side. 
The fact of the matter is that he has had a very good go in the debate on this issue. When the debate came on last night, instead of taking up the time intelligently the honourable members saw fit to take one clause at a time. Had he taken the Bill as a whole and moved the amendments, about 40 speakers could have participated and everything would have been done. But no, the honourable member and others did not want to debate the issue. All they wanted to do was to disrupt the Parliament and to try to prove that it was unworkable or something to that effect. 1 will give you the good oil. I will accept your challenge any old time on that issue. I warn the honourable member that a continuance of this conduct may force us to adopt the tactics which the previous Government did and that will restrict completely the rights of honourable members opposite. We have no desire to do it but the honourable member knows that these things can happen and he tries to force this state of affairs to occur. 
The honourable member has been in this place since 1949. Between 1951 and 1972 on debates on the Conciliation and Arbitration Act his Government gave an average time of 5 hours 25 minutes. The debate on this Bill has spread over 12 hours. I could search the Hansards until I went blind and I would not find one word uttered in protest against the conduct of the previous Government when we on this side were being hammered into the ground. What a phoney argument to put up today. It has been pui up only to disrupt the proceedings of this Parliament. There is no other purpose whatsoever. 
In every way the conduct in this Parliament of the honourable member for Mackellar does him very little credit. The fact of the matter is that we on this side of the Parliament have endeavoured to give effect to effective legislation and we do not intend to permit the honourable member for Mackellar to prevent us from doing so. Let us consider what he did today. The honourable member for Mackellar does not respect even his Leader. The Government had an agreement with the Opposition that, at the conclusion of the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  would be given an opportunity to make a special statement to the Parliament concerning a motion I moved for the printing of a paper. The honourable member for Mackellar has ignored and defied his leader and disrupted the arrangements which were made. In effect he has said: 'I am more important than the Leader of the Opposition'. In effect, he would not obey the arrangements which were made. He would not give me. as the Leader of the House, the opportunity of seeing that they were fulfilled. The Leader of the Opposition, who had arranged with the Government to make an important statement, has gone into the wilderness. He will not be able to make it because the honourable member for Mackellar has taken his time. I do not know how the Leader of the Opposition puts up with him. It is hard enough for honourable members on this side of the House to put up with him, but it must be a nightmare to be in the same Party as the honourable member for Mackellar. 
I do not mind talking. 1 am now talking in the time allocated to the Leader of the Opposition. I inform the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  that the arrangement which was made earlier will no longer apply because of the actions of the honourable, member for Mackellar. When they are in their Party room I hope that members of the Opposition will remember that humbugs like the honourable member for Mackellar are the people who get them into trouble and that the good statements which the Opposition want to make are not made because the Parliament has to put up with the type of rot spoken by the honourable member for Mackellar. I am sorry for the Leader of the Opposition. I am also sorry that such conduct has come from an honourable member opposite. 
Honourable members opposite should not complain to me that they have not had a fair go from the present regime. They have had an opportunity to discuss General Business and to participate in adjournment debates. There has been a vote on every General Business day. Honourable members opposite have had adequate time for debate. Any honourable member who has already spoken 4 times in the Committee stage of a debate on a Bill wants to think twice before attacking the Government. The Government received from the Opposition a list a mile long of members of the Opposition who wanted to speak on the motion for the second reading of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill; yet when the debate went into the Committee stage one could not have found most of them with a searchlight. To make up for the lack of Opposition speakers in the debate some members of the Opposition, including the honourable member for Mackellar, had to talk two or three times. In other words, the Opposition put forward a phoney proposition. 
The Opposition did not want to debate the Bill but, in putting in a long list of speakers, it. wanted to say: 'Look at what the Government did to us'. Anyone who runs through the list will see that only a few of the members of the Opposition listed took advantage of the opportunity to talk about the Bill in the Committee stage which was lucky for the Government because those who took advantage of the opportunity know nothing about the Conciliation and Arbitration Act anyway. A phoney list was presented. When the Government guillotined the debate some of those members of the Opposition whose names were included in the list probably said: 'That's good. We don't have to excuse ourselves now for not speaking on the Bill'. 
I wonder whether honourable members opposite can cast their minds back to the famous day when Parliament first sat with the 
Gorton Government in power. It has been said that the 21 -gun salute which was given lasted longer than the Governor-General's Speech. The Gorton Government continually gagged the Opposition during that one-day sitting. Quite frankly it is a pity that the Gorton Government was not defeated that day because if it had been it would have finished with a better record. That is an example of the things that were done by the people who are complaining now. As far as this type of action is concerned, after 23 years of being on the other side of the fence 1 know that no matter what J and my colleagues do honourable members opposite would do better. I hope that the honourable member for Mackellar will not get up and put such a phoney argument again. I remind him and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that he substituted today for the Leader of the Opposition, who had an arrangement with the Government. The honourable member for Mackellar defied that arrangement. The Government keeps its arrangements but the Opposition did not. 
I move: 
That, contingent on a Medical Practice Clarification Bill being presented on general business Thursday No. 3 and a motion being moved for its second reading, so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent: 
the debate on the second reading ensuing forthwith and being continued past15 minutes to 1 o'clock p.m.; 
the time for debate on the second reading, including the time of the mover, being limited to 3 hours; and 
on the expiry of that time, such question or questions then being proposed, without further debate or amendment, as will bring the second reading stage to a conclusion. 
I intend to speak only very briefly on this matter as I think the purpose of the motion is apparent to all honourable members. Subject to this motion that the Bill be called on tomorrow, it is desired to proceed for  a  period of3 hours in accordance with the announcement 1 made to this Parliament  a  short time ago. Because of the complexities of General Business day it was not possible, had we done it in advance, to lay down the exact time when3 hours would finish from the time the debate was commenced. This preliminary arrangement will allow the debate to continue tomorrow uninterrupted by matters of procedure if this motion is carried by the House today. I hope that all honourable members will agree to it. 
With other honourable members, I realise that 3 hours is a very limited time. I have no desire to curtail the time of this debate. Indeed I would like to see a much more lengthy one. For instance, I and probably some other honourable members will be disappointed that we will not be able to speak on the Bill. But with the limitations imposed it was necessary to make certain that at least the minimum time set aside by the Government could be followed. Therefore we are taking these preliminary arrangements at this stage. One of the purposes of moving this motion that 3) hours be set aside for the debate is to give as many members as possible the opportunity to speak in the debate. I would hope that those who desire to participate or to take part in the debate will voluntarily restrict their contribution to, say, 10 minutes or maybe less. If that is done we will be able to provide the opportunity for about 20 speakers, including the mover and seconder, to take part in the debate. I know that some honourable members are quite seriously thinking of moving this way. We on this side of the Parliament do not intend to do so because this is a private members' Bill and we have no desire to restrict the actual conduct of the activities of private members personally on this measure. 1 have moved today what is only a Party decision on procedure, that is, that Standing Orders should be suspended so as to permit a debate of 3i hours on this measure. In accordance with what I think is a non-partisan or free vote approach I appeal to honourable members not to move motions to restrict debate to 10 minutes but to restrict themselves in that way. I will not speak at further length. I have formally moved the motion. I hope that it will be carried without a division, because it has been moved with good intent. 
 At least tomorrow we will give to those honourable gentlemen who moved and seconded this motion something that they never gave us when we were in opposition. They will be able to stand and be counted on this great social issue. Standing order 104 makes provision for General Business. Let me bring the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  and the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  up .o date. Standing order 104 reads: 
Unless otherwise ordered, government business shall, on each day of sitting, have precedence of all other business, except that on the sitting Thursday alternate to the sitting Thursday to which standing order 106 applies, general business snail have precedence of government business until IS minutes to one o'clock p.m. 
Under the Standing Orders this debate is limited to lj hours to 2 hours tomorrow. This Government is extending the time for the debate. A few moments ago the Opposition even voted against a period of 3i hours. What a lot of baloney. The great social reformer, the great democrat who moved the motion to suspend the Standing Orders, the honourable member for Hotham, when Leader of the House put General Business at the bottom of the notice paper and we never got a vote on it at all. I will tell the House why this motion has been moved. Honourable members on this side are looking at the frightened men. 
 Mr Speaker,  they did not think there would be a vote tomorrow. And now these 2 young hopefuls in the Liberal Party who have been discarded for the time being, the social reformers, are there. Nobody on that side has moved for an extension of the debate to 2 days or 3 days. They have only criticised the time of 3 J hours. Why did not some democrat opposite move that we sit on Saturday, Sunday and Monday? Why not sit for 2 or 3 weeks? I hope that tomorrow all honourable members opposite will be. in the House to vote. I hope also that we will not have these phoney expositions of wrath which we have bad today from these 2 honourable gentlemen. Did you ever see the fury of the honourable member for Hotham. All this is another device to hold up the business of the Parliament. I formally advise the honourable member that this may be the last time in this session that a motion to suspend the Standing Orders will be able to be moved by a private member because honourable members opposite have misused this procedure. Do you know what I am going to do? I am going to put on the business paper- 
1 am going to put on the business paper what was put on it by the Opposition when it was on this side of the House. Later on - not at this moment  -  I shall give notice that I shall move that standing order 399 be suspended for the remainder of this period of sittings except when the motion is moved, pursuant to the standing order, by a Minister. You have forced me to do that and your Government did it when it was in office. You are responsible for that because today this House has been held up by 2 examples of what I would call disruption the like of which I have seldom seen. Whatever people on the opposite side think of me, I have never been afraid to stand and be counted on any issue. On this issue tomorrow, on which I have very strong feelings, I will be voting according to my conscience. 
 I will have a better chance of speaking tomorrow than I would have if the Liberals were in office. Do honourable members know what these gentlemen opposite will do after tomorrow? They will go back to their electorates and say: 'You know. I would have spoken against it but they would not let me.' And when they go home to their wives at night they will say: 'Thank God for the Labor Party, they saved me.' This is what we have come to. Have honourable members ever heard such phoney talk? Anyhow, who wants to listen to them any more. I move: 
That the  question be  now put.  -  Mr Garland  - This is the most appalling Leader of the House that we have ever had. 
 I do not know whether the honourable member for Curtin, who has just left the chamber, is interested, but I am a man of peace. 
 I know that you were provoked into naming the honourable member for Curtin,  Mr Speaker,  but I would suggest that the honourable member should be given the opportunity of apologising to the Chair. 
That the motion be agreed to. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I do not doubt the statements made by the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  but I received no message last night in respect of the matter that he mentioned. It could have been given to the Whips or somebody else, but it never reached me. What the honourable member said just now is complete news to me. 

 Mr ADERMANN (Fisher)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make another personal explanation. 

 Mr DALY (Grayndler - Minister for Services and Property) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make another personal explanation. 
Yes. Frankly, I have no recollection of what the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  has said. I did not convey any message to the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I never had any indication that the honourable member was to raise the matters. Possibly I was distracted if such an incident did occur, but in all fairness to the honourable member I have no recollection of it and I certainly did not convey a message to the Postmaster-General. So we might write it off as a complete misunderstanding and accept each other's explanation. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmithPostmasterGeneral) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
May I say that personally I see no reason to change the views I expressed yesterday. I accept the Leader of the Opposition's assurance that there is to be a conscience vote on his side of the chamber. I know that there will be on this side of the House. I did not know until he confirmed it that this was so on the other side. Yesterday the Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party said that this was a Government Bill. That is completely false. This Bill is to be introduced by a private member. It is a Bill on which I now understand every member of this Parliament can vote as he thinks fit. The only thing that the Government has done has been to take effective action - a thing which was neglected by members of the present Opposition in days gone by - to come to a decision as to the. time for a vote. As to the question of extending the time for an unlim ited period, this is very strange coming from the Leader of the Opposition. Let me read the record of his Government in regard to General Business day. 
I can wait. Referring to the last Government and the number of times that Government Business was given precedence over General Business in 1972, I find that a resolution which was passed on 23rd August 1972, successfully excluded 5 Thursdays which normally would have been General Business days. The number of votes taken on General Business items in the 27th Parliament was five. All five were on motions for disallowance of an ordinance or regulation and were negatived. No items of which notice was given for General Business on a Thursday were ever taken to a vote. The time allotted for the debate today is one of the longest periods ever given to a debate of this kind. The longest time spent debating a private member's Bill was 5 hours 50 minutes on the Banking Companies Reserve Liabilities Bill which was introduced into the House of .Representatives from the Senate in 1910. It lapsed and was resumed in 1911-12. 
I have details of several other private member's Bills. The Defence Bill (No. 2) of 1939 occupied 3 hours 57 minutes. That was in the time of a tory government. The Fire Insurance Bill of 1907 took 3 hours 40 minutes, while the Matrimonial Bill of 1957 took 5 hours 36 minutes. The latter Bill was introduced into the House of Representatives by  Mr Joske  and lapsed at the Committee stage. In 1907 the Public Service Appeals Bill was debated for 3 hours 50 minutes. They are the longest debates on private members' Bills of which I can find details after research into the parliamentary history of this country. Today 3i hours have been allotted exclusively to the private members' Bill on abortion. 
Now the Leader of the Opposition is asking for more time for the debate. Yesterday honourable members opposite voted to reduce the time for the debate to 2 hours. We moved for a period of 3i hours because the time for the debate expires at a quarter to one if it is not concluded. Every honourable member opposite, including the honourable gentleman who asked the question, voted to reduce the time to 2 hours. Now they want unlimited time. How silly can you get? Before this debate was considered I saw the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and said to him: 'This is an important measure on which emotions are roused and about which everyone has feelings. Could we not get agreement to have a reasonable time for debate? Could we cut out the formalities, suspensions and all that kind of thing? Let us have the debate in a reasoned way.' The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition reported to me that he had discussed it with his Party, or that members of his Party had discussed it. Quite rightly, I suppose in their view, evidently they said: 'This is a private members' Bill and there can be no interference', and the  Deputy  Leader could come to no arrangements with me. Arising out of that discussion, members of my Party said that they would vole as a party to see that the forms were proceeded with as laid down. 
If the Opposition had been reasonable and had been prepared to negotiate on these matters, possibly some of the difficulties being experienced would have been overcome. However, if honourable members restrain themselves, double the number of members will be able to speak. 1 am one of those fellows who say that your money is where your heart is. You can speak in this House one way and vote another way. Everybody should understand that he will be judged in this Parliament by the way his vote is recorded after the debate. It does not matter what he says or how he speaks. History and the people of this country will judge him according to how Hansard records his vote. The perfect way to handle legislation is to have a full debate right through on every Bill. We have a legislative program. People are interested in prices. They are interested in the cost of living and in the 50 Bills we have to pass. Honourable members opposite wanted to curtail debate. Earlier in the week we put up a proposal to extend slightly the sitting hours of the Parliament. Every honourable member opposite voted against it. I rest on that. 
When I was mentioning this matter in answer to a question by the honourable member for Bradfield the other day I challenged the Opposition several times. I asked honourable members opposite why they did not move for an extension. Only today, when you cannot make any arrangements they wake up that they want an extension. I say again: 'While this Government is in office whenever possible we will have a vote on General Business day. Only the other day the honourable member for Mackellar would not allow me to move suspension of the Standing Orders to allow his private member's motion to be debated for an extended time. It was not until the honourable member for Lyne moved suspension of the Standing Orders that he allowed us to debate his own motion on General Business day. I put that on the record. I am quite prepared to be 'judged on this issue. I regret that the Opposition did not negotiate more on this measure. Probably we could have got further. 
 Like the honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony),  I hope to bring a bit of sanity back to what is an emotional issue and one which, as the honourable member has said, is a matter of great interest. Honourable members must excuse me when I say that I am unmoved by the crocodile tears of the mover and the seconder of this motion. Let us look logically at the motion. This is it: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent a motion being moved to vary the decision of the House to limit debate on the second reading of the Medical Practice Clarification Bill so as to give an opportunity to all honourable members, if they so wish, to express a view on the second reading stage of the Bill. 
I remind the Opposition that honourable members on that side do not have a mortgage on special conscience opinions on this issue. Honourable members on this side of the House - and they all have points of view on this - were prepared in the caucus to forgo expressing their views in order that the Parliament might have an opportunity to have a debate. Does the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  who moved this motion think it logical to give every honourable member the opportunity to talk? That is what the motion requires. Let me tell the House what it means. If we give effect to this motion it will mean that there will be 42 hours for the second reading alone, plus the Committee stages of the Bill. The total sitting time spread over a week now totals roughly 29 hours. In other words, the Opposition is asking us to have 14 weeks on the second reading of this Bill, and in that time nothing else would be done. There would be no questions, no adjournment debate and no other business. This is on the basis of our extended sitting hours, which the Opposition opposed. The Leader of the Country Party, who has just begged for extra time, is listed amongst all honourable members opposite as voting yesterday, when we moved that the time for the debate be 3i hours, to reduce the time for debate to 2 hours. Had that motion which I moved yesterday not been carried the time for this debate would have expired in 2 hours. I extended it to 34 hours and the Leader of the Country Party and every honourable member on that side of the House who is crying out is recorded in Hansard as wishing to talk for only 2 hours. 
I repeat for the nation to hear that I conferred with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  about this Bill coming on. 
Every honourable member who sits behind me in this place will confirm what I told the caucus. I said: 'This is a Bill on which we have to get some kind of arrangement to save the time and to give members additional debating time.' I went to my Party. I asked the members to pass a motion to give me the right to ensure that the business of the House could proceed if I could not reach agreement with honourable members opposite. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition reported back to me that members of his Party, quite rightly, had lots of views on it. Ultimately they all decided it was a private members Bill and there should be no interference whatever in sitting times or the time for debate. Consequently the motion which I brought in had to be introduced. I did everything possible-- 
I did not challenge it. I will read the Hansard for the honourable member. This is what I said yesterday: 
Why did not some democrat opposite move that we sit on Saturday, Sunday and Monday? Why not sit for 2 or 3 weeks? 
But nobody moved a motion to that effect yesterday. But today, when honourable members opposite know that there is no hope of a motion like that being carried, they are playing politics on a great emotional issue. That is the situation. A motion for an extension of the sittings could quite easily have been moved earlier but no member of the Opposition has taken that step until this very moment. 
I remind the House that honourable members opposite have resisted even an extension of time on General Business today and embarrassed me the other day when they refused to let me move a motion to suspend Standing Orders to allow my good friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  to continue long into the afternoon on a private member's Bill. This is the situation in respect of which I have been asked tedious questions. The Leader of the Opposition asked me a question on it at question time this morning. I am merely repeating what I told him earlier in order that the situation may be clarified. I a:!&lt; members of the 
Opposition: Do they not think that the price of things that people have to pay for, legislation dealing with social welfare and the numerous Bills that we have before the Parliament are equally as important as this issue. I am as involved in this as they are. Am I now to understand from honourable members opposite that they would be prepared to sit for an unlimited time on this matter but would not be prepared to sit for an unlimited time on any other measure? Do the members of the Country Party think that questions relating to primary producers are not so important as this, in many respects? 
The fact of the matter is that it is not practical for everybody to speak on every issue. It is true that everybody wishes to speak on this. Do honourable members know that when people want to know what members views are on a Bill or a resolution they do not look up the record and read what has been said; they have a look to see where the member's name is recorded in the vote. If honourable members want to explain their situation on this Bill they should do as I have done - make a statement on it and let the public know. That is the way in which honourable members can protect themselves with respect to the vote which they make in this place, if they feel so inclined I agree that it is a difficult matter. I will not go over what I have already said. But when I hear honourable members opposite telling me today that we are limiting the time I will refer again to what they did on General Business days when they were in power. 
The honourable member who interjected would know this because he was either the assistant Leader of the House or the Leader of the House when in 1971 we got 1 hour 11 minutes 30 seconds for General Business. On 1st April that year we were allowed 1 hour 22 minutes. On 29th April we were given 1 hour 38 minutes. On 19th August 1971 we had 1 hour IS minutes. On 25th November of that year we got 1 hour 41 minutes 30 seconds. On 9th December we had 1 hour 16 minutes 30 seconds. In 1972 we were allowed 1 hour 23 minutes on 2nd March and 1 hour 33 minutes on 23rd March. On 20th April that year we were given 1 hour 16 minutes. On 11 th May we had 1 hour 50 minutes. In 1970 it was 47 minutes 30 seconds on 23rd April, 1 hour 45 minutes 30 seconds on 14th May and 1 hour 28 minutes on 4th June. On 20th August in that year we were allowed 2 hours 6 minutes. We have extended and doubled the time for General Business. I am one who believes that ultimately this Parliament might set aside a full day for this kind of thing when we can revise the Standing Orders. But with the business of the House as it is, we on this side have done everything possible to get agreement with the Opposition on these matters and the business of the Government must go on. As important as this Bill is, there was no alternative other than to limit the time for debate. 
The information sought by the honourable member is very extensive and I would not like to rely on my memory in respect of it. If he will put the question on notice I will get him the information. 
 This motion to suspend Standing Orders is important in that it has been moved in an endeavour to challenge the integrity of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  A significant fact is that such an important motion has been moved by a backbencher and seconded by another backbencher who has just about made his maiden speech in doing so. If this is an important motion, why has not the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  moved it? Why has not the third most important member of the Opposition in the Parliament moved it? Why has not the substantive motion been supported by the Opposition, in accordance with the practice when the honourable member occupying the highest position in land is challenged? 
The position is that this motion has been moved by someone with a bias against the Prime Minister in an endeavour to bring into this House a matter that is entirely within the province of those in another place. It is another indication of the lack of unity in the Opposition, of the disarray in which it stands and of the fact that its members run riot without any respect at all for authority. I have been given a list a mile long of honourable members who wish to speak in the debate on the Pipeline Authority Bill. 
It is conduct such as this that stops members of the Opposition from speaking on that important measure. In case any honourable member opposite wishes to speak on that measure, 1 mention that at present we are discussing this matter in the time that is to be allocated to the debate on the Pipeline Authority Bill. Never in my life have I seen time wasted so much. 
The Deputy Leader of the Country Party is interjecting. His Party does not even support the motion. If it does, why did not he, on behalf of the Country Party, move or second the motion? It is because everybody knows that there is no support for the motion. The time of this House should not be wasted by honourable members whose leaders have no control over them. Therefore, I formally move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
I move: 
That, in relation to the proceedings on the following Bills, so much of the standing  orders  be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of all the Bills: Pipeline Authority Bill 1973, Prices Justification Bill 1973, Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 and Seas and Submerged Lands (Royalty on Minerals) Bill 1973. 
I have no intention of speaking at length on this motion, although the Standing Orders provide that I can exercise at least 20 minutes in addressing myself to it. I have no desire to do what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  did when he moved his motion recently, that is, waste the time of the House when debate ought to be proceeding on these important measures. One of the reasons for this motion was indicated this morning by the honourable member for Mackellar; it is the wasting of time by certain Opposition members of whom he is the prime mover. I mention also that the Opposition was advised last Thursday that these Bills were to be brought forward and that all of them would be debated before the next Opposition Party meeting next Wednesday. As honourable members know the practice in the Parliament is to adjourn debates on new legislation to allow sufficient time for a party meeting to take place after the introduction of Bills and to determine the attitude to be adopted to that legislation. The only alteration to the priorities indicated to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  last Thursday is that the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 has been moved forward and the Australian National Airlines Bill 1973 has been held over until next week. This follows the review of priorities made by the Government this week because of events in the nation. 
The Opposition has had, in effect, 3 years to determine its position on. the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill. If honourable members opposite believe that they have not had time to consider the Bill they should recall all the speeches that have been made on this measure in the last 3 years. This Government proposes to do what the previous Government never did, that is, give honourable members the opportunity to make up their minds one way or the other on this legislation. A number of public pronouncements have been made in past months concerning the Prices Justification Bill 1973 and the Pipeline Authority Bill 1973. Therefore, the Opposition can hardly say that it has been taken by surprise by the introduction of these Bills. I mention also that I understand that a number of honourable members opposite desire to speak on this Bill. A simple theory is adopted by honourable members opposite when Bills are first introduced. They run around, obtain the names of every Opposition member and give them to their Whip who lists them as wishing to speak on the Bill. The same thing has been done on this occasion. I must confess that I was unable to reach agreement with the Opposition that all these honourable members on the list of speakers would be able to speak on these Bills. Consequently, as I do not wish to take up the time available for debate on the Pipeline Authority Bill - and I mention to honourable members who intend to participate that this is part of the time in which the Bill ought to be debated - having moved that motion, I will conclude. 

 Mr LYNCH (Flinders) 12.25)- Speaking on behalf of the Opposition Parties, I believe the motion which the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has moved on behalf of the Government is completely disgraceful and discreditable. Its intention is to deny to this House and to the Opposition Parties the opportunity of adequately examining and exposing 5 of the Government's most important policy Bills. They are the Pipeline Authority Bill, the Prices Justification Bill, the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, the Seas and Submerged Lands (Royalty on Minerals) Bill and also the Australian National Airlines Bill which we understand is to be brought forward for debate early next week. As the Leader of the House is well aware, the revised arrangement was not brought to my attention until 9.30 last night. Obviously, this followed the issuing of new instructions by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who is seeking to close down the House for reasons which we on this side thoroughly understand. This is because of the manner in which the Government is presently under attack from significant sections of the Australian community. 
Many members from both of the Opposition parties wish to speak on these 5 measures. We have not sought, as the Leader of the House indicated, deliberately to contrive some list which includes persons who are not prepared to speak. All the members shown on the Opposition list as wishing to speak to these quite substantial Bills are intent on speaking and their opportunities to do so will be effectively denied by the passing of this motion. We oppose the motion. We believe it is an abuse of the House and a contempt of the workings of the Parliament. It is a further indication that the concept of open government has now been indecently interred by a government of double standards unprepared to practise in this House what it has preached outside it in the pre-Federal election period. 
I declare the following Bills to be urgent Bills: 
Pipeline Authority Bill 1973 
Prices Justification Bill 1973 
Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 
Seas and Submerged Lands (Royalty on Minerals) Bill 1973 
I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
Pipeline Authority Bill 1973- for all stages of the Bill, until 5.45 p.m. this day,; 
Prices Justification Bill 1973- for all stages of the Bill, until 3.4S p.m. on Thursday, 17 May; 
Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973- for all stages of the Bill, notwithstanding the order of the House of 1 March, until 10 p.m. on Thursday, 17 May, and 
Seas and Submerged Lands (Royalty on Minerals) Bill 1973- for all stages of the Bill, notwithstanding the order of the House of 1 March, until 10.15 p.m. on Thursday, 17 May. 
The. purpose of this motion is tq give priority to important legislation introduced into the Parliament by the Government. There is no doubt whatever that the Bills mentioned are of the greatest importance nationally and internationally and as such deserve priority consideration by this Parliament and the gentlemen in another place. 
The first measure to be discussed will be the Pipeline Authority Bill 1973. It is not a complex Bill but it is a very important one giving effect to a promise in the GovernorGeneral's Speech that in pursuance of its policy for maximising Australian ownership, control, use and development of Australian resources, the Government would introduce legislation to establish a pipeline authority. Its importance cannot be over estimated and it truly comes under the designation of an urgent Bill. 
The Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 seeks to remove any doubt about the exclusive right to the Commonwealth to sovereign control over the resources of the seabed off the coast of Australia and its Territories, from the low water mark to the outer limits of the. continental shelf. Over 3 years ago, on 16 April 1970, the former Government presented its Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, and everybody who spoke on the Bill agreed that it was urgent and of national interest. Similar remarks apply also to the Prices Justification Bill 1973 and the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 that are covered in my motion. 
I am completely unmoved by the crocodile tears of honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Today the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  stated that the previous Government had never moved the guillotine during the course of the last Parliament. I have the Hansard report of 4 May 1971, which shows that 17 Bills went through this House in 19 hours. One of the honourable members who voted for the course followed at that time was the. honourable member for Mackellar. Let us have a look at the setup concerning the Australian Country Party. A period of 5 minutes was allowed for debating all stages of the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill. Hie time allowed in connection with some of the other Bills was as follows: Seamen's Compensation Bill - for all stages, 5 minutes, Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill - for all stages, 5 minutes; and the United States Naval Communication Station (Civil Employees) Bill - for all stages, 5 minutes. 
The honourable member for Mackellar voted for the motion which sets out the allotment of time in connection with those Bills, as also did the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and all the saviours of democracy who sit opposite. For the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill (No. 2) 1970, a period of 30 minutes was allowed for the second reading stage and a period of 5 minutes for the remaining stage. This is what was done by the previous Government, supporters of which now talk about democracy. Why, under my motion a period of 12 hours is to be allowed for debate on 4 Bills. If time had not been wasted by honourable members opposite, they could have had days on which to speak to these Bills. We have no intention of following the infamous example of our predecessors. We are giving honourable members opposite a legitimate amount of time in which to debate these 4 Bills. With the permission of the House, I should like to incorporate in my speech the Hansard report which indicates the conduct of the previous Government. 
 I move: 
That Government Business Order of the Day, No. 1 be discharged. 
I do so because the Bill involved is being superseded by another Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Services and Property is not responsible for all occupancies by Commonwealth authorities in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. Questions relating to such occupancies should be directed to the Ministers concerned. The numbers of buildings not owned by the Commonwealth but occupied by Commonwealth departments in each State are as follows: 
The matter mentioned has not been brought to my attention. The first knowledge that I have had of it is the question just asked by the honourable gentleman. But if it is brought to my attention I shall institute immediate inquiries in line with what the honourable member has indicated in order to see what the real position is. If this is done, of course, action will be taken appropriate to the case. 
-! shall take up the time of the House for a few minutes only to answer a few of the false assertions which have been made by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  The honourable member made certain comments in regard to the manner in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  answers questions. Honourable members opposite might well realise that asking the Prime Minister questions is like bowling to Don Bradman - he is unbowlable. What is happening on the other side of the House is that- 
I do not want to take up the time of the Parliament. However, I just wanted to put those facts on record. If honourable members opposite persist in wasting the time of this Parliament with frivolous motions of dissent and things of that kind there are 2 ways in which the Government can retaliate. Firstly, the Government can take the time wasted out of private members time or secondly, it can take the time available to the Opposition in other ways. I do not intend to interfere with the rights of private members having been one for so very long. But if honourable members opposite persist in wasting time they cannot complain when time is taken out or Bills are restricted in order to make up the leeway. It is quite impracticable for every honourable member to participate in every debate in this Parliament. I mention that every time we have asked for a list of speakers from the other side of the House we have been given the name of practically every member, particularly of the Liberal Party. Opposition members who do not get the opportunity to speak rush back to their electorates and say that they have not had the time to talk knowing full well that in most cases about two-thirds of them did not have anything to say at any stage of the Bill that was being discussed. I mention this in order to show that honourable members should concentrate on the matters that are of importance. 
A period of 12 hours has been allocated for the 3 Bills that are to be discussed today. Yesterday the honourable member who rose a few moments ago and vehemently denied that he was a time waster, wasted the best part of an hour and a half of the invaluable time of this Parliament which could have been taken up on those important matters. Anybody who likes to study the record of the previous Government over a long period of time will see that members' rights were restricted, that there was no such thing as open government and that there was no chance of private members getting a go. This Government has remedied most of those faults. In addition we have never sat into the early hours of the morning as was constantly the case with the previous Government when we had to debate important legislation at 2, 3 and 4 o'clock in the morning. 
I agree with honourable members opposite that the Standing Orders of this Parliament will have to be reviewed because I believe in these modern times no doubt we will have to sit for longer periods. Probably we will have to provide under the Standing Orders for better methods of presentation of debates. But for honourable members opposite to say that they are not getting a fair go and that adequate time is not being given for discussion is something that cannot be substantiated. Quite frankly, if any record is necessary I refer honourable members to that historic debate which appears in the Hansard report of 4th May 1971, when the Liberal Party put through 17 Bills in 19 hours. In order that honourable members might see what was done by the Liberal Party in comparison with what has been done by our Government, I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard some extracts from the 'Votes and Proceedings' of the House of Representatives for 4th May 1971. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Allotment of time:  Mr Swartz  then moved - That the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 19-71 - 
For the second reading, 1 hour; 
For the remaining stages, 1 hour. 
United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill 1971- For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill 1971  -  For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill 1971  -  For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Seamen's Compensation Bill 1971  -  For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1971- 
For the second reading, 1 hour;  
For the remaining stages, 30 minutes. f 
Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill 1971- For all stages of the Bill,5 minutes. 
Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1971-For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill 1971- 
For the second reading, 4 hours; 
For the remaining stages,5 minutes. 
Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill 1971- For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Papua and New Guinea Bill 1971- 
For the second reading, 30 minutes; 
For the remaining stages,5 minutes. 
Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill 1971- 
For the second reading, 40 minutes; 
For the remaining stages,5 minutes. 
Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Bill 1971- For all stages of the Bill, 5 minutes. 
Superannuation Bill 1970 - 
For the second reading, 1 hour; 
For the remaining stages, 1? hours. 
Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill (No. 2) 1970- 
For the second reading, 30 minutes; 
For the remaining stages, 5 minutes. 
Trade Practices Bill 1971- 
For the second reading, 2? hours; 
For the remaining stages, 1? hours. 
Wool Industry Bill 1971- 
For the second reading, 2 hours; 
For the remaining stages, 30 minutes. 
Debate ensued. 

 Mr Giles addressing the House 
Closure of Member moved:  Mr Cope  moved - That the honourable Member be not further heard. 
Question - put. 
The House divided (the  Speaker, Sir William  Aston, in the Chair) - 
And so it was negatived. 
Debate continued. 
The time allowed by standing order 92 for the discussion of the motion for the allotment of time having expired - 
Question - That the motion be agreed to - put. 
The House divided (the  Speaker, Sir William  Aston, in the Chair) - 
I thank the House. I will conclude by saying that the record of the present Government in respect of private members and the conduct of the business of the House will bear more than favourable comparison with the record of any government of our time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 31st December 1973 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 to 9 introduced into the Parliament during this session. The tariff changes validated by this Bill relate to Tariff Board reports on agricultural tractors; cathode ray tube display terminals; and cherries; and Special Advisory Authority reports on capacitors; and phthalic anhydride. I expect the subject matter validated by this Bill to be included in the next Customs Tariff Bill. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr N.  H. Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
One position of First Assistant Secretary, Level  3  ($17489); one of Clerk, Class 11 ($12120-12551); one of Clerk, Class 8 ($9529-9961); one of Clerk, Class 6 ($7651-8230); one of Steno-secretary, grade  2  ($5170-5570); two of Steno-secretary, Grade 1 $4325- 4625); one of Clerical Assistant, Grade 4 $4516- 4764); one of Typist, Grade 1 $1688-3675). All positions are filled, except for the position of Clerk, Class 8, to which an appointment is pending. 
No. 
See (2) above. 
See (1) above. 
Official and Non-official Post Offices  (Question No. 505) 
In reply to the question of the Leader of the Opposition about the sittings of the House, let me say that this Government has given more consideration to honourable members, in relation to both private and government business, than any government in the  last 23 years. The question is interesting in view of the fact that on 3 May I moved that there should be a slight extension of the sitting hours each day because the Government desired to get through the business of the House and also to give honourable members an opportunity to debate the issues. Hansard of 3 May records that every member of the Opposition voted against the proposal to extend the sittings of the Parliament even for about an hour a day. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition, said that the Opposition was not even prepared to sit for a minimum of additional time each day to get through the business of the House. This Parliament has never sat into the early hours of the morning such as the previous Government made us do in order to pass legislation by exhaustion. The House has not sat after 11 p.m., and furthermore it will not sit in this session after 11 p.m. However, I mention to the right honourable member that we on this side of the House have a very big legislative program. We have about 30 Bills to pass. There is to be considerable debate on those Bills. We acknowledge the rights of honourable members to debate them. The Government has already considered this matter. In order to put the Leader of the Opposition at ease and give his colleagues the opportunity of acclimatising to the Canberra winter, I am happy to say that we will be sitting on Friday of this week and into the following week to complete the business of this Parliament. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  stated that I said he had voted against a motion for the extension of the sitting times of the House. The statement I made stands because the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  on behalf of the Opposition, opposed the extension of sitting hours for a short time each day, and I understand that the honourable member for Curtin is still a loyal member of the Opposition. Consequently he was linked with the rest of his colleagues in voting against an extension of the sitting times of the House. 

 Mr GARLAND (Curtin) - I wish to make a further personal explanation. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for an additional representative for the Australian Capital Territory in the House of Representatives. The provisions of the Bill are to (a) provide for 2 members of the House of Representatives for the Australian Capital Territory elected on the basis of single member electorates, with effect from the first sitting of the Twenty-ninth Parliament; (b) provide for full voting rights for both members for the Australian Capital Territory with all the powers, immunities and privileges held by other members of the House of Representatives; (c) divide the Australian Capital Territory into 2 single member electorates, of which one electorate shall embrace part of the Australian Capital Territory proper and the other electorate shall embrace the remaining part of the Australian Capital Territory plus the Jervis Bay territory - to be effective immediately following the expiry or dissolution of the Twenty-eighth Parliament; and, (d) provide  -  (i) for the setting up of a distribution committee, and (ii) for the inviting of suggestions and objections and preparation of a report to Parliament, along similar lines to that provided for the distribution of a State into electoral divisions. 
The Australian Capital Territory was given representation in the Australian Parliament in 1948 on the initiative of the then Labor Government, with effect from the 1949 elections, on the basis that the member representing the Australian Capital Territory had the same voting rights as the member for the Northern Territory at that time, namely, that the member could vote only on a motion to disallow an ordinance affecting the Australian Capital Territory. In 1959 he was given the same additional right as was given in that year to the member for the Northern Territory to vote on any Bill that related solely to his Territory, namely, the Australian Capital Territory. In 1966, after years of advocacy by the former distinguished member, the late Jim Fraser, and the Australian Labor Party, the member for the Australian Capital Territory was given the right to vote on any matter after the ensuing general election for this House. 
These constitutional developments were in accordance with section 122 of the Constitution which provides, in part: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any Territory surrendered by any Slate to and accepted by the Commonwealth, . . . and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament, to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
The number of electors enrolled in the Australian Capital Territory increased from 11,841 in 1949, when the Australian Capital Territory was given its first representation, to 48,127 in 1966 when the member for the Australian Capital Territory was given full voting rights in this House. Today there are 85,282 electors on the roll for the Australian Capital Territory. This number exceeds by 5,385 the number of electors enrolled in the next largest Australian electorate, which is Diamond Valley, with an enrolment of 79,897. 
In 1970 the then Minister for the Interior indicated that his Government:  bearing in mind the provisions of section 122 of the Constitution, favours the principle of providing representation for a Territory commensurate with its development and population growth. 
He went on grudgingly to admit that: 
. we may well have reached the time when we need extra representation for the Australian Capital Territory. 
What a remarkable conclusion to be reached, at a time when the Canberra electorate had already grown much larger than the majority of electorates in Australia. But in typical fashion, having acknowledged the need, the Minister was overcome by the inertia from which he and his Government suffered over the years. The inescapable fact was that by comparison with the States the Australian Capital Territory was and is underrepresented in respect of both population and electors. 
Under the provisions of the Representation Act, in determining the number of members of the House of Representatives a quota is ascertained by dividing the number of people of the States as shown by the census by twice the number of senators - that is, by 120. The number of members to be chosen in each State is then determined by dividing the number of the people of the respective State by the quota. The quota based on figures derived from the 1971 census was 104,376. The number of members determined for each State and the resultant average population per member in respect of each State were as follows: 

<graphic href="084131197305223_63_0.jpg"></graphic>

The average population per member for the States, taken as a whole, on figures obtained at the 1971 census was 101,010. The population of the Australian Capital Territory at the 1971 census was 144,100 which was 42.66 per cent above the average for the States. The population of the Australian Capital Territory is expanding rapidly and at 30 September 1972 it was approximately 162,000, while the electoral enrolment for the Australian Capital Territory as at 27 April 1973 was 85,282, including 561 18, 19 and 20-year-olds. 
While the enrolments for the several divisions in the States range from approximately 42,000 to 80,000, these are evened out at a redistribution. However, the enrolment for the Australian Capital Territory cannot be similarly adjusted. It continues to grow with the increase in population. The average enrolments for divisions in each State as at the end of April 1973 were as follows: 

<graphic href="084131197305223_63_1.jpg"></graphic>

It is estimated that the electoral enrolment of the Australian Capital Territory will exceed 120,000 by December 1975- the normal time for the next general election of members of the House of Representatives - and 185,000 by 1980, an annual increase of about 9 per cent. If an additional member for the Australian Capital Territory were provided as from the next House of Representatives election on the basis of the Territory being divided into 2 divisions, the estimated average number of electors per division - about 60,000 - would be in reasonable conformity with the average for the States combined, namely 58,741 as at 27 April 1973, and considerably in excess of that for Tasmania. 
Once again it remains for the Australian Labor Party to take the necessary action to ensure proper representation for the Australian Capital Territory in the House of Representatives. Of course we propose to go further and there will be a cognate Bill relating to representation in the Senate, which, together with the Bill before the House, will give a measure of justice to the Australian Capital Territory at this stage of its development. Moreover we will keep the matter under review and introduce further legislation as the population increases and the need develops. 
I need not emphasise to members of this House the challenge and the burden associated with representation of such a large electorate comprising such highly sophisticated electors as one finds in the Australian Capital Territory. Honourable members will recall the toll which such representation took of our late lamented friend Jim Fraser and which no doubt contributed to his untimely death. I never cease to be amazed at the conspicuously effective and untiring service given by my distinguished colleague, the honourable Kep Enderby, in performing his ministerial duties as Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory and in discharging the unequal burden of representing this electorate which should have been divided much earlier. The Australian Capital 
Territory, with no mayor, no local government representatives and no State members means that the people are entirely dependent on their member of the Australian Parliament to a much greater extent than possibly anywhere else in the world. Every grievance from the municipal to the national level ends up as the responsibility of their representative in the Australian Parliament. He is the mayor, the alderman, the ombudsman and their parliamentary representative all rolled into one. 
The Australian Capital Territory with its rapid growth, population and development, its wide diversity of interests and its multiplicity of problems makes the demand for additional parliamentary representation unanswerable. Briefly, let me compare it with, say, the State of Tasmania. That State with a population of approximately 393,000 less than two and onehalf times that of the Australian Capital Territory with approximately 162,000, has 35 members of the House of Assembly, 9 Legislative Councillors, 10 senators and 5 members of the House of Representatives - a total of 69 parliamentary representatives plus over 500 local government representatives, whereas the Australian Capital Territory is represented most ably by a single Labor Party parliamentary representative. Of course there are 8 elected Advisory Councillors for the Australian Capital Territory but these worthy members can do not more than advise the Minister in local matters. 
Before I conclude I wish to refer to one or two aspects of the legislation which are no doubt of interest to the House. Firstly, 1 refer to the provision for the legislation to take effect from the first sitting of the twenty-ninth Parliament, and that may be much earlier than a lot of people think. This arises from the differing legal opinions as to whether it would be constitutionally practicable to provide for the election of an additional member for the Australian Capital Territory during the term of the current Parliament. The Solicitor-General has advised that if the Government wishes to so provide, in his view such a law would be valid. However, because a doubt exists about the matter, the Government considers that the wisest course is to defer the election of the additional member until the next general elections for the House of Representatives, particularly as separate legislation is being introduced to provide for 2 senators for the Australian Capital Territory to be elected before that time. The election of the senators will in the interim period provide the additional representation so urgently required in the Australian Capital Territory. Secondly, under the provisions of the Bill the tolerance between the electorates must be. not more than 10 per cent, with additional provision for further redistributions whenever the Governor-General so directs. 
This Bill is a further step in the fulfilment of the Government's promise to provide additional representation in the Australian Capital Territory. It is progressive legislation, all too long delayed, to give to the people of the Australian Capita] Territory increased representation in the Australian Parliament. It is a move which should commend itself to all the democratically-minded and one that should receive the support of both sides of this Parliament. In addition it is urgent because of possible coming events. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ian  Robinson) adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for Senate representation for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory on the basis of 2 senators for each Territory. The Bill provides for the election of 2 senators each for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and that such senators have the same powers, immunities and privileges as senators representing the States; that the first election of Territory senators be held at the same time as the next Senate elections in the several States or at the same time as the next general elections for members of the House of Representatives, if such is held before or in conjunction with the next Senate elections; that the term of the first Territory senators be from the date of their election until the eve of polling day for the ensuing general election for members of the House of Representatives; that after the first election for Territory senators, elections be held at the same time as the general elections for members of the House of Representatives; that after the first election of Territory senators, the terms of Territory senators be the period between each House of Representatives election; and for the Territory senators to be elected under the same system of proportional representation as that currently applicable to the election of senators representing the States, except in the case of a single casual vacancy when such vacancy shall be filled by the holding of a by-election adopting the procedures used for filling a single casual vacancy for a State senator, as far as may be applicable. 
Under another Bill to be presented later today, Territory senators will be excluded for the purpose of determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States in pursuance of section 10 of the Representation Act. The Bill before the House is an historic Bill. It is introduced by this Government in furtherance of our belief that while ever the national Parliament remains bicameral it is in accordance with the political tenets of the Australian Labor Party that all parts and all the people of Australia should be represented in both chambers. The platform of the Australian Labor Party that all parts and all the people tal Territory and the Northern Territory to be represented by senators with full voting rights. It is a great honour for me to initiate this historic legislation. With this legislation the Australian Labor Party asserts the particular responsibility this Parliament bears towards these 2 mainland Territories which are under the direct control of the Parliament. The Australian Parliament passes laws concerning both of these Territories. These laws must be approved by both Houses of Parliament. And in respect of these Territories, the laws are wider in scope than it is possible for Parliament to pass for other parts of the nation, for they include matters relating to municipal and State functions which would normally be the prerogative of State governments. 
The Government and the Australian Labor Party believe that the administration of the Territories should be accountable to a Parliament in which the views of the citizens of the Territories can be stated in both Houses by those responsible directly to the electorate of the Territories. Honourable members will know that before the Commonwealth accepted the Northern Territory from South Australia and the Australian Capital Territory from New South Wales, residents of both of them were represented in the Parliaments of those 2 States in the same way as all other residents were represented. The Territories were incorporated in electorates for the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales and the House of Assembly of South Australia. The Northern Territory was included in a province for the Legislative Council of South Australia and the citizens of the area now comprising the Australian Capital Territory were eligible for appointment to the Legislative Council of New South Wales. When the Territories were surrendered to the Commonwealth their citizens were disfranchised and were denied parliamentary representation for a considerable time. 
In 1922 the Northern Territory was given representation in the Australian Parliament by one member in this chamber. He was not entitled to vote on any matter. In 1936 he was given the right to vote on a motion to disallow an ordinance affecting the Northern Territory. In 1959 he was given the further right to vote on any Bill which related solely to the Northern Territory. Whether or not a Bill was related solely to the Northern Territory was determined by the Presiding Officer or, if there was objection to the ruling of the Presiding Officer, by the House. In 1968 the member for the Northern Territory became entitled to vote on any matter. In my second reading speech on the Australian Capital Territory Representation (House of Representatives) Bill I recounted the history of representation of the Australian Capital Territory in the Australian Parliament. I shall not repeat it. The Australian Labor Party has struggled for years to give adequate and effective representation to both Territories. Lip service was given to this concept by members of the Opposition. They had the opportunity but took no action. 
Honourable Members will recall the efforts of the late lamented Jim Fraser in this regard. We all recall the maiden speech of the distinguished Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  in this House. The Labor Party asserted its view that further representation for the Territories was long overdue when private, member Bills were introduced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  then Leader of the Opposition. These. Bills were taken to the second reading stage on 7 November 1968 and 20 August 1970. But the parties now in opposition would not allow these Bills to come to a vote. In his 1968 speech on the Territory Senators Bill the Prime Minister, as Leader of the Opposition, also pointed out that there is nothing unusual in having more members for the Senate than for the House of Representatives for any Territory. Tasmania and Western Australia at this stage have more senators than members in the House of Representatives and in  5  States in the United States, Alaska, Delaware, Nevada, Vermont and Wyoming, there is but one member of the House of Representatives although there must be  2  senators under the Constitution. Accordingly, this is not without precedent under the American Constitution on which our Constitution is based or under the Australian Constitution itself. The Prime Minister in presenting the Labor Party policy at the last Federal election made it clear that further representation would be given to the Territories if Labor were elected. 
Honourable members will recall the maiden speech of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  when he advocated appropriate recognition of the Territories. In  1970  when the private members Bill, proposed by the then Leader of the Opposition (the Territory Senators Bill) was debated in this House the then Minister for the Interior aside 
I know that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is desirous of speaking.  His  name is on the list of speakers. He supports the view, that has been put forward by the Leader of the Opposition. 
But of course the honourable member for the Northern Territory did not speak on the Bill - he was not allowed; it would have been embarrassing. 
Because I was here. The then Minister for the Interior adverted to the matter in his speech on the Territory Senators Bill in  1970.  He admitted that the question of representation was of little importance to the Government. He said: 
The Leader of the Opposition has challenged me because, on the last occasion this subject was debated, in 1968, I do not think I had time actually to reach that conclusion. 
The conclusion to which he was referring was the one reached in  1970  after  2  years of concentrated thought and no doubt with monumental single mindedness which he stated as follows: 
While no formal decision has been taken in the matter it can be said that the Government, bearing in mind the provisions of Section 122 of the Constitution, favours the principle of providing representation for the Territory commensurate with its development and its population growth, but it considers that the present time is not appropriate to introduce senatorial representation for each Territory as proposed by the Bill. 
The time is never appropriate for those who do not wish to move. Justice delayed is of course justice denied and yet it was in the Senate that action was taken by this Parliament which so profoundly affected the Territories. 
The Prime Minister when debating the Territory Senators Bill in  1970  drew attention to the fact that there have been several motions in the Senate to disallow ordinances concerning the Territories and he listed a number of instances where such ordinances had been debated. There are committees in this Chamber dealing with the Northern Territory. There is a Joint Committee of the  2  Houses on the Australian Capital Territory, there is a Public Works Committee, the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory Committees, Public Accounts Committee, Public Works Committee and many others. However, no senator from the Territories is here to sit on them although they are matters of vital importance. Is it not strange that there is not one elected representative of either Territory in the Senate to expound the case for the local inhabitants? Surely this is a situation which in all fairness must be corrected. 
The provisions contained in this Bill are on similar lines to those proposed by the Prime Minister in the Territory Senators Bills introduced by him when Leader of the Opposition in  1968  and in  1970.  The justification for the provision of senatorial representation for the Australian Capital Territory and for the Northern Territory was expounded by the Prime Minister on these occasions and such justification has continued to exist and to grow with the growth and the development of the  2  Territories. It is unthinkable that such significant parts of Australia are not represented in both Houses of the national Parliament. Since  1967  the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council has been pressing for Senate representation of the Australian Capital Territory. At its meeting on  1 1  December  1967  the following resolution was carried: 
This Council advises the Minister that the Australian Capital Territory should be allowed representation in the Senate and seeks the Minister's assurance that he will do everything possible to persuade the Government to introduce the necessary legislation in Parliament in order that citizens of this Territory are no longer denied adequate and proper Parliamentary representation. 
The continuing development of the Australian Capital Territory and its high percentage population growth highlights the need for this Territory to be represented in both Houses. The Legislative Council of the Northern Territory has sought Senate representation for the Northern Territory on several occasions over many years. In 1969, the Legislative Council asked by resolution for the representation of the Northern Territory in the Senate by 2 senators. The Northern Territory, comprising an area of 520,280 square miles, is a vital part of Australia which should be represented in the Senate in addition to the representation of its people in the House of Representatives. 
Before I deal with the main argument in support of the Bill I should perhaps refer to the position under the Constitution. Section 7 of the Constitution provides: 
 The Senate shall be composed of senators for each State directly chosen by the people of the State . . . 
The Constitution further provides for an initial number of 6 senators but that the Parliament could make laws increasing or diminishing the number of senators for each State but that equal representation of the States was to be maintained and no original State could have less than 6 senators. The Constitution therefore provided for equality of State representation irrespective of the area or the population. Section 121 of the Constitution provides that: 
The Parliament may admit to the Commonwealth or establish new States, and may upon such adminisMon or establishment make or impose such terms or conditions, including the extent of representation in either House of Parliament, as it thinks fit. 
The Australian Parliament therefore could admit new States but was not required to accord equality with the original States. 
But Section 122 of the Constitution is relevant to the question of representation of a Territory in the Federal Parliament. It provides that: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the Commonwealth, or of any territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit 
It is clearly permissive. It was therefore the clear intention of the founders of the Australian Constitution that Parliament should be empowered to permit representation of resi dents of the Territories of the Commonwealth in the National Parliament. It seems clear beyond doubt also that they recognised the injustice of disfranchising a person simply because he transferred from a State to a Territory of the Commonwealth. 
I now refer briefly to a further section of the Constitution which is relevant to the Bill. Section 24 provides that: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by rae people of the Commonwealth, and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of senators. 
The Bill before the House will increase the number of senators by 4 making a total of 64 senators in all. I mention here a very significant matter. On the basis of advice by the Commonwealth legal advisers, the provision for Territory senators by virtue of Section 122 of the Constitution does not cause an alteration in the number of members of the House of Representatives by virtue of Section 24. Therefore the 4 senators representing the Territories will be excluded in determining the number of members to be chosen in the several States, in pursuance of Section 10 of the Representation Act. 
Having established the constitutionality of the measure, I would like to turn now to the reasons why it is necessary and desirable to extend representation in the Senate to the 2 Territories. Senate representation for the States is based on equal representation irrespective of population. While the number of people or the number of electors is not therefore a significant factor in Senate representation, the estimated population as at 30 September 1972 and the enrolment as at 27 April 1973 in respect of each State and Territory is as follows: 
The population of each Territory is increasing at a much greater rate than the populations of the States but at the moment the only representation in the Australian Parliament of either Territory is one member in the House of Representatives with no representation in the Senate. On the latest information available from the National Capital Development Commission it has been assessed that the population of Canberra could reach the half million level between 1992 and 1996 and that a population of 600,000 at the year 2000 is feasible, based on a decreasing percentage growth rate. 
In respect of the Northern Territory I am advised that the projected population for 1980 is assessed at 165,000 rising to 275,000 by 1990. These figures are those on which joint agreement has been reached between Government departments for planning purposes. Perhaps I might be permitted to quote the remarks of the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory when he made his maiden speech in this House on 20 August 1970. The honourable Kep Enderby said: lt is interesting to compare the situation in the Australian Capital Territory with the situation in Tasmania ... as far as Tasmania is concerned it has approximately 3 times the population of the Australian Capital Territory. In terms of numbers on the electoral roll the proportion is probably the same . . . Tasmania has 10 senators, 5 members of the House of Representatives, 19 members of its Legislative Council and 35 members of its Legislative Assembly, making a total of 69 politicians representing Tasmania as compared with one member representing the Australian Capital Territory, an electorate of approximately one-third of its size. 
The only good thing about that is that there is not one Country Party member among those representatives. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory continued: 
In addition Tasmania has a system of local government. There is no local government or territorial government in the Australian Capital Territory. Territorial government in the Australian Capital Territory comes directly from and is the law-making power of the public servants and beyond the public servants of this House, and of the Senate by way of review. This is all the more reason for adequate and proper representation in both the House of Representatives and in the Senate. There is no local government or state government equivalent in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Need I say more than what the honourable member for the A.C.T. said then. The argument today is even more cogent. The residents of both Territories are people who in all respect are similar to those who reside in the States. In 1970 the Prime Minister described the Australian Capital Territory as: 
The fastest growing, the youngest and in many ways the most affluent and best qualified electorate in Australia. 
Honourable members will see this from its member. The then Prime Minister continued: 
It is an electorate which, incidentally, should now have 2 representatives in this place as well as in the Senate, because there are many instances in this chamber where 2 members of the Country Party together represent no more persons, no more residents, than the Labor member of the Australian Capital Territory has to represent singlehanded. 
This position still applies. 
The people of both Territories pay taxes in accordance with the law. They are subject to the same laws but are not represented in the Senate where they are surely entitled to have presented to that House the views of the residents of their respective Territories. Again, because the Australian Parliament is responsible in the Territories for making laws in respect of matters reserved under the Constitution to the States, the Government should be answerable to both Houses of a Parliament each of which includes appropriate representation from the Territories. This Bill provides for representation for the Territories in the Senate in a manner different in extent and nature from the representation of the States in the Senate and as I pointed out, this difference is authorised by the Constitution. In particular, instead of having 10 senators for each Territory as there are for each State there will be 2 senators for each Territory. 
Two senators are suggested because it would be proper to have an even number representing the Territories. If only one senator alone represented a Territory, almost certainly the one party would be represented for long periods. It is probable that both senators would belong to the same party. It would appear then to be more democratic to have an even number elected each time for each Territory thus following the pattern of the major parties providing that each would have a representative in the Senate. The term provided for each of these territorial senators is not 6 years, the constitutional period for state senators (except in the case of double dissolution - always likely to be on); the term for territory senators will be the life of the House of Representatives. The main difference in representation which the Bill provides for the Territories as distinct from the States is the term of office. The Constitution expressly provides requirements as to the terms of office for senators representing the States. The Constitution leaves it to this Parliament to determine the terms of office for senators representing the Territories. 
The Government has adapted the method which was unanimously agreed to 15 years ago by the Constitutional Review Committee, upon which all parties in the House were represented. It was recommended by the Committee that the Constitution should be amended to provide that there should be an election for half the senators every time there is an election for the House of Representatives. The Committee believed that this would cut down the number of elections and so minimise the distraction of elections and the difference between the 2 Houses. The decision to bring the elections of territory senators into line with those of the House of Representatives is in accordance with the Constitutional Review Committee's findings. Both senators will be elected every time there is a general election of the House of Representatives. So for the Territories there will be elections for both Houses of Parliament at the same time. When this Bill passes the Parliament, the writs will be issued for the elections of senators for the Territories concurrent with the next Senate general election or House of Representatives general election, whichever is the sooner. Thereafter all the senators for the Territories will retire at each House of Representatives election. 
There is perhaps one further point to which 1 should refer. In the past, some honourable members have seen some inconsistency in the platform, constitution and rules approved by the Federal Conference of the Labor Party in Melbourne in 1969 and the attitude of the Government towards representation in the Senate. It is true that it is well established Labor policy to abolish the Senate. The Labor Governments view on this point was cogently presented by the Prime Minister when, as Leader of the Opposition, he spoke on the second reading of the Territory Senators Bill on 7 November 1968. He said:  lt has been said quite correctly that the Australian Labor Party is in favour of the abolition of the Senate. One of the first planks to the Party's platform provides for an amendment of the Constitution to abolish the Senate. This is one amendment of the Constitution which would require the support of a majority of the voters, not only in Australia as a whole and in a majority of the States, but in every State. Accordingly it would be a difficult amendment to carry ... Be that as it may, the situation is that as long as this is a bicameral legislature, in the name of democracy and decency people throughout the nation should have a vote for both chambers. Everyone is subject to the laws and therefore everyone ought to have a vote to choose the members of each House of Parliament which makes the laws. 
As importantly, the Government believes that this legislation goes far towards achieving the basic principles of the Labor Party's platform on constitutional matters which reads as follows: 
The restoration of Parliament as the principal organ of democracy and social and economic change, the maintenance of effective Parliamentary supervision over the administration. The adaption of procedures and privileges of Parliaments and their committees to contemporary standards of efficiency and justice. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ian  Robinson) adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend the formula in the Representation Act under which the number of members of the House of Representatives is determined. Section 24 of the Constitution provides, in part: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth, and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of senators. 
Section 24 further provides that the number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the respective numbers of their people and the section goes on to specify the manner in which that number is to be determined until the Parliament otherwise provides. As honourable members will know, Parliament has otherwise provided in the Representation Act. A short time ago I introduced the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill which provides for senatorial representation for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The Government's legal advice is that section 24 of the Constitution does not have application in relation to senators who may be provided for a Territory under the provisions of section 122 of the Constitution. In other words, the requirement contained in section 24 for the number of members of the House of Representatives to be as nearly as practicable twice the number of senators does not relate to Territory members or senators provided under section 122 of the Constitution. Furthermore, 'the people of the Commonwealth' in the context of section 24 are the people of the States. 
The formula in section 10 of the Representation Act for determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States, sets out that a quota shall be ascertained by dividing the number of people of the Commonwealth by twice the number of senators. The number of members to be chosen in each State is determined by dividing the number of people of the State by the quota; and if on such division there is a remainder, one more member shall be chosen in the State. Clause 3 of the Bill before the House makes it clear that in applying the formula provided in section 10 the people of the Commonwealth' are the people of the 6 States and do not include the people of any Territory. 
Clause 5 of the Bill which substitutes the words 'the Senators for the States* for the word 'Senators', makes it clear that Territory senators are excluded from the formula for determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States. Thus, consistently with section 24 of the Constitution, the introduction of Territory senators will not affect the representation of the States in the House of Representatives. 
Opportunity is being taken in clauses 4 and 6 of the Bill to make some amendments of a formal nature to sections 7 and 13 of the Representation Act. The present provisions of these sections do not take into account the fact that one House of the Parliament may be sitting although the other is not. At the same time it is desirable to bring the period within which regulations are to be tabled under subsection (2) of section 13 into line with the period of 15 sitting days provided by the Acts Interpretation Act in relation to regulations generally. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate ton motion by  Mr Ian  Robinson) adjourned. 
.1 move: 
That  the  Bill be now read a  second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend the Book Bounty Act 1969-1970 to give legislative authority to administrative decisions announced by the previous Government. When the book bounty was introduced in June 1969, the then Government expected payments to total about $1..6m a year. During 1970-71 this amount was exceeded and in May 1971 it was decided to contain expenditure to an acceptable level by excluding certain publications from bounty eligibility. 
The change was publicly announced on 28 May 1971 and applied on and from 31 May 1971 except for those publications for which a firm order was held by printers prior to this date and all copy had been received. The Bill gives legislative authority to this administrative practice which has been in force since 31 May 1971. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Insurance (Deposits) Bill and the Life Insurance Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Is there any objection to that course being followed? There being no objection that course will be followed. 
by leave - Following the 1971 census the Chief Electoral Officer determined in accordance with the provisions of the Representation Act that 10 members of the House of Representatives are to be chosen for Western Australia in lieu of 9 as at present. Section 25 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides, amongst other things, that the Governor-General may issue a proclamation directing a redistribution of a State into divisions whenever an alteration is made in the number of members of the House of Representatives to be elected for the State. Despite this provision the present Opposition when in government did not take appropriate action over redistribution in Western Australia. On the other hand, the present Government strongly criticised the Opposition for its failure to provide the tenth member for Western Australia at the last election, thus denying electoral justice to the people of that State. 
As the Parliament is aware, the Government proposed to make certain alterations to the redistribution provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act but the Electoral Bill was rejected by the Senate on 17 May 1973. This Bill will be presented again immediately Parliament resumes in August. I advise the Senate accordingly. Despite the Senate's rejection of this important piece of legislation, the Government is determined that Western Australia shall not be denied the extra member to which it is entitled and a redistribution of that State will therefore be effected without delay. The Governor-General will be invited to make the necessary proclamation and to appoint Distribution Commissioners. I shall inform Parliament of the names of the Distribution Commissioners as soon as possible. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (3) The matter of public notices advising of the appointment of the Australian Post Office Commission of Inquiry and inviting submissions within its terms of reference is the responsibility of the Commission. I om informed by the Commission that the public notices in this case appeared in all daily newspapers, both metropolitan and provincial, published throughout Australia - four times in the morning editions and twice in the afternoon editions. The 52 newspapers involved have a daily circulation of about 5.4 million. The Commission considers that the extensive coverage through newspapers was reasonable to draw the attention of interested persons, groups, associations, etc., to the establishment of and the terms of reference given to the Commission. 
I move: 
That the House, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 10 a.m. 
In explanation of this motion I might say that honourable members already will be aware of the need to sit tomorrow in order to ensure that the House can complete some of its business. For the guidance of honourable members I point out that the proposed hours of sitting will be 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 2.15 p.m. to 4.15 p.m. The House will then adjourn and resume next Tuesday at 10 a.m. when it will sit for the normal hours. 
I can consider the matter now for the honourable member. The hours of sitting as arranged stand until the end of this session. This arrangement has been decided by the House. I appreciate the honourable member's concern, but the Government faces the same inconveniences. I 'thought that the Government was adhering to a request from the Opposition in deciding that the Parliament should sit next week so that honourable members opposite could take up more time. I thought, because they seemed so anxious, that it would not have mattered to them if the Parliament commenced sitting at, say, 7 o'clock in the morning. However, I thought that would have been a little unreasonable. I thought 10 o'clock was not an unreasonable compromise in view of the anxiety of honourable members opposite to be here. Therefore, whilst I appreciate their problems, I point out that the Government faces much greater problems because it has the responsibility of introducing legislation. Consequently, although we would like to meet the Opposition's wishes, I feel that any change might upset some of its members who are so anxious to sit next week. After due consideration I regret that we will have to continue sitting for the hours laid down. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Yes. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said that he was told what to do. He came to me and asked what would be done about the Bill and  1  said that in accordance with Government practice we intended to give private members, even him, the opportunity to put things forward in this place, to have them debated and also to have a vote taken.  1  suggested to him that we might be able to bring about a debate. It was mentioned that he would be moving the motion - naturally his seconder would have to support it - and we would reply to the debate and a vote would be taken after that. He entered into that arrangement unreservedly. This is the second occasion on which he has broken an agreement with me- 
I do not blame the honourable member for Mackellar,  Mr Speaker.  I blame myself because anybody who is caught twice is in a certain category. But let me advise the honourable member that never again while I am Leader of the House will I enter into an agreement with him, and I will have grave reservations about entering into an agreement with the Opposition if the honourable member is supported by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That the question be  now  put. 

<graphic href="084131197305245_36_4_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="084131197305245_36_4_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="084131197305245_36_4_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave of the House to move that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the debate on the second reading of the Bill ensuing forthwith. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
 I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the debate on the second reading of the Bill ensuing forthwith. 
This is an important Bill. The Bill seeks to introduce an Act to enable young couples to make better provision for the purchase of their homes. Notice of intention to present the Bill was given on 1 May by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  He evidently does not treat it as a serious matter. The Government treats this as a very serious piece of legislation. Evidently the honourable member seeks to make General Business day a joke. Do not forget that the House will be sitting next week in order to provide time for this debate, among others, to take place. This is the second occasion on which the honourable member has endeavoured to make a joke of very important motions. Once having instigated them he seeks to get all the notoriety and refuses to allow the government case to be put or the matter to be debated. The honourable member wishes to clutter up the business paper with unlimited matters like the previous Government did, without any opportunity being given to debate them. 
This Government has stated that it will always bring to a conclusion motions of this kind. Consequently, today we seek to debate this issue. The honourable member was told this yesterday and he distributed to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  and to Government supporters who were interested copies of the Bill. We arranged with him that the mover and the seconder would speak, we would be given an opportunity to reply and a vote would be taken today. These arrangements have now been repudiated. What can we expect from the Opposition? This is making a farce of the time which has been set aside for matters to be introduced by private members. It is a subterfuge. Yet honourable members opposite say that we do not give them time for debate. 
This is a matter of policy for both sides of the Parliament. Surely as it is a policy matter the honourable member would have discussed it with his own Party, as a matter of courtesy, before introducing it. I think this is a misuse of the time set aside for General Business and we as a Government do not intend to tolerate it. We will not enter into arrangements with the honourable member again on matters of this nature. As a matter of fact, we thought that this was so important that we waited and gave preference to the honourable member because young couples do need homes and we wanted to discuss this as a matter of importance. There is no purpose in putting it at the end of the notice paper and leaving it there for years as the previous Government did in respect of similar matters. This Government will not follow that infamous policy. We will bring this on for a vote today. Having said that I formally move: 
That the question be now put. 
I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
 I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the consideration of General Business continuing beyond 12.45 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sydney  -  250 square feet. 
Melbourne  -  313 square feet. 
Brisbane  -  322 square feet. 
Adelaide  -  340 square feet. 
Perth- 324 square feet. 
 I move: 
That the House, at its rising, adjourn until 11 a.m., or such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the chair, on Tuesday next. 
If I may comment briefly on this motion, honourable members may recollect that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  raised with me the question of extending the normal sitting time of 10 a.m. next Tuesday. At that stage I said that in view of business this could not  be  done. We have since discussed the matter further and, in order to assist Opposition and, no doubt, the Government in the workings of their internal affairs regarding the heavy legislative program, it has been decided to meet on Tuesday next at that time. Honourable members will appreciate that there is a great amount of legislation to be dealt with by the time at which we desire to rise next week. They also will notice that there is a lot of legislation on the notice paper for today. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition indicated that, whilst not restricting the rights of honourable members to participate in these debates, we both would look forward to a reasonable measure of co-operation in order to make up for the time lost. I therefore appeal to honourable members to co-operate in every possible way to ensure that we complete today's legislative program and ifinish next week's legislative program by the time at which we desire to rise next week. The hour lost is considerable, but I was able to reach an agreement with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and I ask for the co-operation of honourable members. 
 I move: 
That so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent (a) a Defence Force Retirement end Death Benefits Bill, a Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill, a Superannuation Bill (No. 2) and a Defence (Parliamentary Candidates) Bill being presented forthwith and read a first time together and one motion being moved without delay and one question being put in regard to, respectively, the second readings, the committee's report stage, and the third leadings, of the four Bills together, (b) the consideration of the Bills in one committee of the whole, and (c) messages from the Governor-General recommending appropriations for the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Bill, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill and the Superannuation Bill (No. 2). being announced together. 
This is a procedural motion, and I hope that it will be agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be  now  read a secondtime. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give statutory form to the Australian Electoral Office and to provide for statutory offices of Chief Australian Electoral Officer, Deputy Chief Australian Electoral Officer and Electoral Officer in each of the 6 States. Honourable members will note that, in accordance with policy of the present Government, the word 'Commonwealth' is being replaced by 'Australian'. These statutory officers will administer the Electoral Act and also carry certain powers under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The Bill provides that the Chief Australian Electoral Officer shall, as required by the Minister, advise the Minister on matters relevant to electoral policy, legislation and procedures. At present the Chief Electoral Officer has statutory powers, but he holds office under the Public Service Act. Statutory offices are normally created where there is a need to exercise substantial powers and functions, often of a quasi-judicial kind, specified in the relevant legislation. This is important where the powers and functions are to be exercised free of immediate political control and without fear or favour. This Bill is the first step towards a restructuring of the Electoral Office in a way which recognises the need to preserve the integrity and impartiality of the officers. This, I believe, will accord with the thinking of all honourable members. 
The present Government regards it as important that those who administer the electoral machinery should be publicly seen as having a separateness from the normal relationship that exists between a Minister and his Department for which, of course, the Minister is fully responsible. Technological advances over recent years have brought substantial changes to the Electoral Office. 
Within the next few months the electoral rolls for the whole of Australia will have been converted to a computerised process. But this is only the first stage and in the near future the rolls will be maintained by even more advanced methods. 
Under an arrangement between the GovernorGeneral and the Governors of the States of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania, the Australian Electoral Office is responsible for maintaining joint electoral rolls and these rolls are used for both Federal and State elections. One other State has recently indicated its desire to join the joint rolls arrangement and the Government looks forward to a time when a single joint electoral roll will be used for every State, resulting in considerable cost savings and less confusion to the electors. 
As one would expect in a country with a growing population, the work of the Electoral Office has increased substantially. The Government wants up to date electoral rolls and maximum efficiency in the conduct of elections. The Government also wants quicker production of election results. The public demands for information about elections and electoral procedures, requiring more extensive research, are increasing. The granting of the franchise to the Aboriginal people means that ways and means need to be found for ensuring that they exercise that franchise fully and effectively. There is also a need for dissemination of more electoral information to migrants. With all these developments it is necessary to examine closely the organisation and workings of the Electoral Office and the arrangements for training of electoral staff to carry out the more complex technical procedures involved in performing its modern role. 
The Government, in putting forward these proposals which are in accord with recommendations of the Public Service Board, envisages that further developments may require additional legislative changes. We are determined to ensure that the Electoral Office is developed to perform its full functions efficiently. The Bill includes the normal sort of provisions which apply to statutory officers and, in this respect, is somewhat similar to the Parliamentary Counsel Act. It includes protection of the rights of public servants appointed to the statutory offices. It will be noted that the Chief Australian Electoral Officer will have the powers of a permanent head in relation to his staff, who will continue to be covered by the Public Service Act.  Mr Speaker,  I am confident that it is desirable to recognise in legislation the impartial position of the electoral officers covered by this Bill. The Bill deserves the support of all honourable members and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Appropriation Bill (No. 6) 1972-73, Supply Bill (No. 1) 1973-74 and Supply Bill (No. 2) 1973-74 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the close of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this. Bill and the Public Service Bill (No. 3) as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill and the Representation Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I do not intend to reply in detail to all that has been said. I only wish that the present Liberal Party members of this House would get on the beam with their counterparts in the Australian Capital Territory on the question of Senate representation because I have with me an article from the Canberra Times' of 17 May 1973 headed 'Libs Want Two A.C.T. Senators' which states: 
The Australian Capital Territory Federal Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party may ask the Party's Senate wing to initiate moves to bring in legislation giving the A.C.T. two representatives in the Senate. 
The Federal Electorate Conference will also ask the Parliamentary Liberal Party to support any legislation providing for the two senators. 
At its meeting last night, the Conference carried a motion supporting the establishment of two Senate seats for the A.C.T., both to be elected at the same time. 
The  Chairman  of the Conference,  Dr Peter  Hughes, said today the legislation should be brought down as soon as possible. 
The two senators are vital to Canberra because the A.C.T. is under-represented in that it does not have self-government', he said. 
Local government now seems even further away because the Federal Government is talcing centralism to an extreme degree'. 
If honourable members opposite believe that, they should believe the rest of the article. It continues: 
Proposed legislation to provide Senate representation for the A.C.T. was approved last month by Federal Cabinet. 
However,  Dr Hughes  said the legislation did not look like coming up in the present session of Parliament. 
One reason we would like to see the matter dealt with soon is that it would give us  a  chance to start campaigning', he said. 
Members of the Liberal Party in Canberra are not worried about the Constitution. The article continued: 
We expect the two new seats will be established before the next Senate elections which are likely to be held either in November this year or March next year. 
November seems the most likely choice, so there is not all that much time left.' 
Where do members opposite stand with their counterparts in Canberra? Are they a lot of phoneys, a lot of no-hopers? I have quoted what their candidate,  Dr Hughes,  said. He is one of the most capable Liberals, the most intellectual, most competent, and most brainy of all in the Liberal Party of Australia. This is a fact. The learned former AttorneyGeneral, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  says this is all phoney. Did honourable members ever hear anything like that? Why do Liberal members opposite not talk to their Canberra colleagues sometimes. I can understand them not talking to members of the Country Party but 1 urge them to have a yarn to their fellow Liberals in the Australian Capital Territory. That would be only reasonable. 
Did anyone ever hear anything like what was said by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)?  He believes 100 per cent in Senate representation for the Northern Territory so long as he does not have to vote for it. The Country Party is constantly asking for extra facilities, smaller electorates and more members because they have too much to do in the huge areas they represent. If anybody wants assistance the honourable member for the Northern Territory does, but today in this Parliament he said that he does not want anyone to help him in the 500,000 square miles he represents. While the Country Party seeks to gerrymander every electorate in the Commonwealth by means of a 20 per cent tolerance, a Country Party member has turned down added representation for the people in an electorate of 500,000 square miles. I suggest to him that he should examine bis record in this Parliament. He has never voted for anything worth while for the Northern Territory since he has been here. The fact of the matter is that a full-time Minister for the Northern Territory is now available and the Northern Territory has development unlimited. There is protection of the rights of the people and everything that goes with it, yet the member for the Northern Territory today said that those people do not need additional representation when everybody in the House knows that he is a complete failure himself. Why does he not want extra representation? The answer is that he knows that it would not be hard for another representative to outshine him, even in the Senate. I say nothing more except to repeat that the Liberal Party in Canberra does not agree with the views expressed tonight by members of the Opposition. It knows that Labor is endeavouring to give the Australian Capital Territory representation on a constitutional basis. 

 Mr BEAZLEY (Fremantle- Minister for Education) - 1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
 The paragraph that is proposed to be inserted has no useful purpose in this Bill. What is sought to be inserted is that we should take into consideration in redistributions 'community of interests within the division, including economic, social and regional interests'. I would like to know what are 'regional interests' in the Australian Capital Territory. There is not the great diversity of interests here that there is in other places. It makes no difference to the substance of the Bill. So, the Government accepts the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
 The Government cannot accept this amendment because its policy is 'one vote one value'. In accordance with the findings of the Constitutional Review Committee, it believes that the nearest possible margin to that would be 10 per cent. I point out what this amendment would mean in the Australian Capital Territory. The enrolment for the Australian Capital Territory is now 85,282. The quota would be 42,641. The addition of one-fifth would bring the number of electors up in one case to 51,000. With the subtraction of one-fifth the lower one would be 34,000- a difference of 17,000. What the Opposition is asking us to do is to institute in the Australian Capita] Territory a system that will create 2 electorates in the one district - the one form of community - with a difference of 17,000 electors between them. That is precisely what the amendment means. The margin of one-tenth would mean 46,900 against 38,000  -  a difference of only 8,900. The amendment is unacceptable to the Government. Consequently, we will vote against it. I will not elaborate on it as that was done in a previous debate. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
 I would like to reply briefly to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  who moved the amendment. The amendment seeks to make the terms of Austraiian Capital Territory and Northern Territory senators half the term of State senators - that is for  3  years from  1  July. I think that that is broadly the interpretation of the amendment. Whilst this would be a workable proposition, it is quite in conflict with the concept and policy of the Australian Labor Party which is that elections for senators and for the House of Representatives should coincide. Consequently the amendment is not acceptable te the Government. 
In answer to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  let me say that our legal advisers, who were no doubt the same advisers as those whs advised the previous Government and who gave it the best of legal advice, have advised us that the size of this House will not be increased if we increase the size of the Senate by these  4  senators. So his argument is completely dispelled. There is to be no intention on the part of this Government to flout the constitutional advice that we have been given. Furthermore, if he thinks that this is part of a sinister plot of the Labor Party completely to dominate and control the Parliament by the election of these senators, I suggest that he should have a chat with the  President  of the Liberal Party in the Australian Capital Territory who thinks that it is a first class Bill and that it should be introduced by the Opposition side of the House even if the Government did not do it in this session. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as  a  whole. 
 The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is again arguing what is a constitutional matter and a question of legal interpretation. I have already stated that the Government's legal advice is that the increase in the Senate will not necessitate an increase in the size of this House. Section 5 makes clear that it is our intention not to do so. It makes it clear that Territory senators will not be included in the formula for the ascertaining of the quota used in determining the number of members of the House of Representatives in each of the States. We have clarified that in order to dispel the suggestion that it is the Government's intention to increase the size of the House of Representatives. I noted that the honourable member said a few moments ago that this matter will be tested. I sincerely trust that he and his colleagues will give this Bill a passage through both chambers of the Parliament and thereby permit to be done with this legislation what is intended to be done with the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, that is, have its legality tested. This would give an example to this Parliament of his consistency on great legal and constitutional matters. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move: 
After '3 May 1973' add '22 May 1973'. 
It is a funny thing but I can do that. I omitted to say this in the. (first place. This amendment seeks to provide for the validation of the collection of duties under Customs Tariff Proposal No. 10 of 1973, which was introduced subsequent to this Bill. Customs Tariff Proposal No. 10 relates to industrial type plastic-coated knitted gloves. I think that has cleared up the matter. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
 in reply - I thank the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  for their constructive and complimentary remarks about the activities of the Australian Electoral Office and its officers. I also place on record my commendation, after a long period in Parliament, of their impartiality, integrity and the contribution that they make to the workings of democracy. I share with the right honourable member for Lowe and other honourable members a common desire to see that the staff enjoy conditions of employment and advancement that are enjoyed in other avenues that in many respects are not so important but in which greater privileges are extended. I hope that this Bill goes a little way along that course. 
Questions were asked by 2 members of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for Maranoa and the honourable member for Mallee. The Bill refers expressly only to the 8 officers that it covers - the 6 State officers, the Chief Australian Electoral 
Officer and his deputy. At this stage other employees of the organisation are still members of the Public Service. Under clause 12 of the Bill all their rights are preserved in relation to their employment as members of the Commonwealth Public Service. Naturally, that involves appeals and all matters relating to them. It is only fair to say that employees of a statutory authority suffer slight impediment in respect of working conditions, transfers, and so on, but those matters will be looked at in the wider aspect when the organisation is complete. I can assure honourable members that all precautions will be taken so that no employee suffers by the change, particularly public servants. Statutory officers being appointed at all stages will have full protection in regard to their status and salaries should changes take place. I again thank the House and particularly honourable members who participated in the debate for the way in which the legislation has been received. I hope it is as successful as we all envisage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on these 4 Bills I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering these Bills, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill and the Defence Force (Papua New Guinea) Retirement Benefits Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 6 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The honourable member will appreciate that the question he has asked is a lengthy and involved one. I answer the final part of it first. The Government has not avoided its responsibility towards private honourable members or towards legislation during this session and has no intention of commencing to do so either at this stage or in the future. I will look into the matter that the honourable member has mentioned and in due course provide him with an appropriate reply. 
 Mr Speaker,  may 1 have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Income Tax Asessment Bill (No. 2) and the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 Mr Speaker- 
I can speak with great knowledge of either the motion or the amendment. We have just witnessed the third most important member of the Opposition speaking from the other side of the House. He is what might be called the innocent young bridegroom who is courting that dear old lady, the Democratic Labor Party. I suppose one could liken them to Kane and Unable. 
I am sorry that the honourable member took offence. I thought I was being complimentary in view of the ages of the respective parties. Won't it be a great marriage, when it comes about, with this handsome, young, valiant crusader fighting for the leadership against the aging  Senator Gair  or  Senator McManus?  What fluency they will bring to the Parliament; what knowledge. This is the union that is running away from the name of the Country Party. Members of the Country Party always speak about the country people, and now they want to change the name of their Party. If you were in the Country Party or the DLP, why would you not want to change your name? Why would they not be ashamed of their record? The Country Party reduced the rural industries to ruins and the DLP has practically reduced this country to ruins by its actions. 
It will be a great union. They may marry. It will be lovely when they are churched, because as a good Christian I do not like to see people living in sin. Let us hope that we are all there for the filming of the wedding night. Won't it be great. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  will probably be the bridesmaid.  His  colleagues in the Senate will probably be train bearers. Won't it be a magnificent marriage. It will be one of those we all dream about -  Mr Gorton  and  Mr Fraser  arm in arm singing. What a disaster that would be. We can see them as they sing Here we are Again' or 'For they are Jolly Good Fellows'. Members of the Labor Party might even go along to look at it. 
These are the honourable gentleman who say that this Government does not have a magnificent record. They talk about disagreements in public between Government members. I suppose that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was being complimentary when he said the other day of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser):  If he became leader it would be a disaster'. Is that the kind of friend you want to have around? Both these honourable members walk along together and sit pleasantly on the front bench, each hoping that the other will drop dead politically. Smilingly sitting in the wings is the former Prime Minister, and he does not care much about either of them. I can see him nodding assent. 
I think the honourable member must be the only maiden in the House. 
Might I say,  Mr Speaker,  that in spite of your comment I have no intention of proving it even under the Gorton motion. On a more serious note I want to say that it ill behoves the Opposition to say that this Government does not have a magnificent record. Tonight as one saw the benches on the Government side crowded by members listening proudly to the great record of achievement of this Government one could not help but wonder how those who sit opposite had lasted so long to do so little. The situation is, and I put it on the record, that since the first day of this year we have initiated  114  Bills and that in the Senate another  12  have been initiated. The total time of the sitting, including suspensions of the sitting, up to and including  30  May was  355  hours  21  minutes. Adjournment debates, which have been allowed to take place every night except one when the Opposition, led by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  stopped the business of this Parliament, totalled  29.  Every due Thursday the grievance debate has been called on and on  4  occasions general business has been considered and disposed of on every occasion. Only  5  matters of public importance were raised by the Opposition and they were given adequate time for debate. 
Despite what is said by the Leader of the Country Party - the handsome, young, smiling bridegroom who does not know what he is in for - on only  2  occasions was the guillotine used, and that was to put through Bills of tremendous importance. There have been  89  divisions, and the Government won the lot. On only  37  occasions did we need, because of the obstruction of the Opposition, to curtail debates, and we are still about  300  behind on the number of gags that were moved by honourable members opposite when in Government. There have been  690  petitions presented. Open government, freedom of the people - this is what we stand for. Questions placed on the notice paper numbered  722,  which is not really a large number, but I think the Opposition gave up the prospect of asking intelligent questions openly and honourable members opposite hid their light behind a bushel by putting them on the notice paper. There have been  504  questions without notice. I will tell the House what else was done. We have not sat till  3  o'clock in the morning. The question that the House should now adjourn is put on Tuesday nights at  10.45. 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Mr Snedden's  amendment) be so added. 
by leave  -  I move: 
That so much of the standing orders be suspended  as  would prevent a Privy Council Appeals Abolition 
Bill 1973 and a Privy Council (Appeals from the High Court) Bill 1973- 
being presented and read a first time together and one motion being moved without delay and one question being put in regard to, respectively, the second readings, the committee's report stage, and the third readings, of the Bills together, and 
the consideration of the Bills in one committee of the whole. 
So that the Opposition will be somewhat more calm than it now appears to be, I state that the purpose of this motion is to facilitate the introduction of the second reading of this measure. 
-I will hand a copy to the honourable member. This motion has been moved only for the purpose of allowing the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to introduce the Bills and to make a second reading speech, nothing else. I assure the House that the Leader of the Opposion  (Mr Snedden)  will be given the opportunity to move the adjournment of the debate as soon as the Prime Minister has finished his speech. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - In my statement to Parliament on 23 May 1973 concerning the redistribution of Western Australia into electoral divisions, I said that I would inform the House as soon as possible of the names of the distribution commissioners to be appointed by the GovernorGeneral. The Governor-General will be invited to proclaim and direct a redistribution of Western Australia into electoral divisions and I am now in a position to inform Parliament that the Governor-General also will be invited to appoint the following persons as distribution commissioners: Bobbie Sydenham Nicholls, Willian George Henderson and John William Robson.  Mr Nicholls  is Commonwealth Electoral Officer for the State of Western Australia and will be recommended to be  chairman  of the distribution commissioners.  Mr Henderson  is  Deputy  SurveyorGeneral for the State of Western Australia and his appointment has been agreed to by the State Government.  Mr Robson  is  Deputy  Commissioner, Repatriation Department, Western Australia. He served as a distribution commissioner for Western Australia at the time of the 1968 redistribution. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$48,526 per annum. 
Yes. The Australian Government has a site which will be suitable for Australian Government Offices when the Postmaster-General's Department's Telephone Exchange Building which at present occupies part of the site is removed to a new location. Plans for the relocation of this Telephone Exchange are being discussed with the Postmaster-General's Department. 
Very briefly, but nonetheless sincerely, I wish to be associated with the tributes so sincerely paid to the late Arthur Calwell. I think almost all has been said of the great qualities of a great Australian and a great Labor man. He did bring, as honourable members have said, determination and energy to his political career. In the conflict of politics undoubtedly he made political enemies on both sides but it is a tribute to his character and standing that he left life respected and loved by both sides of the Parliament. That, in itself, reveals his great qualities and it is something for which his family might justly be proud. Much has been said about the qualities he had and of his oratory but he had another quality that many did not seem to realise. He had a great memory for names and the most humble members of the staff, as with many people from all sides of politics, were always surprised when, frequently after a long absence, he remembered their first names and was able to address them in that way. This, in itself, was a capacity which was remarkable for a man with so much on his mind. 
I was also a member in those years of vibrancy when he was in the full vigour of life and Minister for Immigration in the war Cabinet. Undoubtedly our immigration scheme, with its great contribution to Australia's development, must go down as his greatest memorial as a member of this Parliament and as a citizen. Those who like oratory and Australianism should read his speeches during the early days of immigration, particularly his speech on the Citizenship Bill. They will see running throughout his speeches Australianism of the highest calibre. Those speeches, well written and well delivered, are an inspiration to all who have a nationalistic or patriotic spirit. 
I do not wish to say more at this stage except that one of my colleagues mentioned to me one of the quips  Mr Calwell  made on one occasion. It is a quip which lingers in the memory of some honourable members. The late Archie Cameron was in the Chair and Arthur addressed him as  chairman.  Archie said: 'I am not a  chairman'  and Arthur replied: 'I know you are not, but I thought I would pay you the compliment'. Having said so much, I join with others in expressing to his wife and family my deepest sympathy and my respect for a colleague I liked and respected in every way and whose absence I mourn with all other honourable members. 
I give notice of my intention to present at the next sitting a Bill for an Act relating to the distribution of States into electoral divisions. 
I have been misrepresented and I seek leave to make a personal explanation. The statement made by the honourable member for Angas is deliberately false. I was not consulted by the Whip on this issue on any question at all. That statement should be withdrawn. 
I say it was a false statement. I was not consulted on this matter by anyone. 
He can discuss it when he speaks during the Budget debate. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Firstly, I shall put the record straight in opposition to the motion. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  asked for leave to make a statement; leave was granted. The spokesman for the Opposition asked for leave to make a statement; it was granted. No honourable member asked that the paper be printed or noted for debate. Had that been asked for the request would have been granted. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  did not ask that any other honourable member from his side should be allowed to speak. Had that been requested and arrangements made, consideration would have been given to it. I repeat that the 3 processes open to the Opposition were not availed of. It was accepted that there would be one  speaker  and that was the spokesman of the Liberal Party. This brings me to the question: Must we in this Parliament, every time a member of the Liberal Party speaks, ask a member of the County Party to speak also? Is that the situation? Who is the spokesman on the Opposition side? Is it the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the fourth  most  important man in the House, or is it the honourable member who spoke? When the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  makes a statement in a moment must we have a Liberal Party  speaker  and a Country Party speaker? Why do not honourable members opposite sort themselves out? They know why we asked for only one speaker; it was because we wanted to keep harmony in their camp. We do not want to bring into the light of day the disharmony that exists there. Why do not honourable members opposite put their heads together? I cannot help it if the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party overlooked the Country Party when making his arrangements. Having a good look at the Country Party, I do not blame him, but it is not my job to sort him out. 
'The point I raise is this: Is it to be taken that on each occasion when a debate takes place we are to have 2 speakers from the Opposition parties. We would only get into all kinds of trouble. In respect of China it could be to recognise or not to recognise; in regard to North Vietnam it could be to bomb or not to bomb. 
 Mr Speaker,  I accede to your request. I point out that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who spoke a moment ago, rambled far and wide. I am just giving, within the scope of my intelligent remarks, some reasons why the honourable member rambled. Honourable members opposite have offered criticism of the Leader of the Government in respect of Lee Kuan Yew and others. Most of the Prime Minister's time was involved in taking away from Lee Kuan Yew the odium that was created by Country Party Ministers in regard to shirts, clothing and things like that. While the Prime Minister was abroad he was trying to defend in many respects- 
I mentioned earlier the reasons why Standing Orders should not be suspended. Firstly, they should not be suspended because the Opposition did not ask that the paper be noted or printed. Leave was given for the Prime Minister to speak. Leave was given to the spokesman for the Opposition to speak. Now an interloper enters the debate and says that he speaks for the Opposition. That is why Standing Orders should not be suspended. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  is nodding his head. I have checked with my Whip and found that the honourable member misled the House on a certain arrangement which I made and which I will explain later. These are reasons why Standing Orders should not be suspended. 
The honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who spoke a moment ago said that my Party, when in Opposition, often moved for the suspension of Standing Orders so that Opposition members could speak. Of course, we did, but we were not a shambles like the present Opposition Parties. We were a united opposition. We were not a rabble like those honourable members who sit opposite today. We were an opposition that spoke with one voice on the great issues. That is why today the Standing Orders should not be suspended. Did honourable members ever hear anything so silly as to why Standing Orders should be suspended? 
 Mr Speaker,  you know that is not my nature. I have pointed out these things to show the humbug which is associated with this motion. I ask the Opposition Parties, in all sincerity, whether they expect, on international affairs and every matter that comes before this Parliament, to have 2 voices from what is supposedly a united party. Do the Opposition Parties expect us to suspend Standing Orders and give leave for a Country Party member to speak and other honourable members to speak as well? 
I do not know about that, but the DLP will be in a lot more trouble when they line up with your Party. The next thing that will happen is that  Mr Fraser,  the honourable member for Wannon, will be speaking for the DLP as the third most important man in the Party. How long can these kinds of affairs be tolerated? If arrangements are made in respect to debates they will be honoured by this side of the Parliament. If arrangements are made for speakers on any matters they will be honoured. But I cannot give any assurance that 2 spokesmen will be allowed to speak on every issue that comes before the Parliament. I suggest to the Opposition Parties that they should prevent time wasting like this by having some harmony and a bit of unity on that side of the Parliament. They should not expect us on this side of the House to put up with 2 men fighting openly and holding up the Parliament when no arrangements were made or broken. 
I do not wish to speak at greater length on this matter. There is no case to be made for the suspension of Standing Orders. My Party has honoured its obligation. The only reason the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party spoke a moment ago is that his Party Joes not trust the Liberal Party and the Liberal Party does not trust the Country Party. I suggest to the Whips of the Opposition Parties that when they wish to make arrangements they should make them through the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  with me and not go around the House trying to make arrangements elsewhere because it is our responsibility. I suppose honourable members opposite only talk to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition once a week so he cannot be expected to know. Anyhow, that is the reason why we do not suspend Standing Orders. Apart from all other things, we do not want to bring into the open the disharmony that exists on the other side of the chamber - the disunity and the failure to agree on great international issues. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Wide Bay has just told the honourable member for Angas that no request was made for additional speakers to debate the Prime Minister's statement. No arrangements were ever made with me for additional speakers but the honourable member for Angas stated that I had arranged for the Opposition to be allowed extra speakers. The situation is that they were never asked for. The Government 
Whip has confirmed that no arrangements were made with me. In order that this will not happen again, I ask the honourable member for Angas to ensure that arrangements are made with the man responsible for making them. I will certainly not be misrepresented like this on these matters by a member who has no responsibility for the organisation of the business of the House. Today, the honourable member for Angas implied that I had misled the House and made arrangements which never had been made by me. I resent that suggestion and 1 think that the honourable member should apologise. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which seeks to amend certain provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act relating to the redistribution of States into electoral divisions, is in identical form to the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973 which I introduced in this House on 13 March 1973 and which was passed by this House on 4 April 1973. As honourable members would know, the motion for the second reading of the Bill was defeated in the Senate on 17 May 1973. My Second Reading Speech on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973, when first introduced, is reported in Hansard dated 13 March 1973  -  pages 502 to 513. In my speech, I fully explained the details and the purposes of the amendments. We have a heavy legislative program before us and as the proposed amendments of the Commonwealth Electoral Act contained in this Bill have already been agreed to by this House, I do not propose to again go over the many reasons which justify the adoption of this legislation. I will, however, for the benefit of honourable members, deal briefly with the proposals contained in the Bill and the purpose of the Bill. 
The Bill seeks to change only sections 19 and 25 of Part III of the Commonwealth Electoral Act dealing with the redistribution of the States into electoral divisions. It is proposed that all other provisions of Part III of the Act which specify the procedure for redistributions of States into electoral divisions, be retained. The amendments proposed will have the effect of: 
reducing the permissible variation from the quota specified in section 19 (1) from one-fifth to one-tenth; 
revising the factors (section 19 (2)) to which the Distribution Commissioners are required to give due consideration by deleting the reference to: 
disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance; 
the density or sparsity of population of the division; and 
the area of the division; and 
varying section 25 (2) (b) to provide that a redistribution may be directed whenever in one-fourth of the divisions of a State the number of electors differs from the quota by one-tenth (in lieu of one-fifth). 
The proposed amendment of section 25 (2) (b) is a natural corollary to the amendment of section 19 (1) reducing the margin of allowance from the quota to 10 per cent. 
The purpose of these amendments is perfectly clear. We seek to bring down legislation which will provide for practical equality of representation at redistributions of States into electoral divisions thus ensuring that the will of the majority will be reflected in the outcome of the elections of members of this House. The principle of 'one vote one value' must be established as the fundamental objective of redistribution. These are principles which are enshrined in the platform of the Australian Labor Party and our efforts fo bring them about when in Opposition are well known. Our intentions were publicised before the last elections at which the people elected an Australian Labor Party government. 
We proposed a permissible variation from the quota of electors sufficient to enable the Distribution Commissioners to give due consideration to factors which are consistent with the equal representation principle which the Australian Labor Party, both in Opposition and in Government, has consistently enunciated. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who interjected received 17 per cent of the primary votes at the last election and he got into the Parliament. That is a real democratic vote. I am reminded that he did well to get 17 per cent. Factors such as 'the area of the division', 'the density or sparsity of population' and references to 'disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance' inserted by the previous Government in 1965, are contrary to the concept of equality of political rights and encourage departure from the quota of electors in a manner which makes the value of a citizen's vote depend largely upon his geographical location. 
The changes proposed by this Bill are designed to provide by legislative measures that, as far as may be practicable, the value of the vote of one citizen shall be equivalent to the vote of another and to give some meaningful application to the principle of one vote one value' without unnecessarily restricting the Distribution Commissioners in proposing a redistribution. The existing 20 per cent permissible variation from the quota which allows a division to have 50 per cent more electors than another division in the same State and which was introduced in 1902 when Australia had a population of about four million, as against thirteen millions today, can no longer be tolerated in our society. 
Section 24 of the Constitution provides that the number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the respective numbers of their people. Thus, the Constitution itself ensures equality of representation between States based on the numbers of people resident in those States, a condition which the Australian Labor Party believes should also apply within the several States. Based on the population revealed at the last census, New South Wales for example is entitled to 45 members while Western Australia (which comprises nearly one-third of the whole of Australia) is entitled to 10 members. Obviously, the founders of the Constitution did not take cognizance of the area, density or sparsity of population and disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, in framing Section 24. 
It is evident that the area of divisions and the density or sparsity of population in divisions cannot be uniformly applied throughout the States. The Government believes that people should be the controlling factor, not only for determining the representation for the States in the House of Representatives, but also for determining divisions within those States. I remind those honourable members who are seeking to interject that the Labor Party holds more country seats than does any other party in this Parliament. 
There are only 4 clauses to this Bill, and its title, 'Relating to the Distribution of the States into Electoral Divisions', indicates its limitations. Despite these limitations, in this House in March and April of this year, the debate extended over a total period of 10 hours 55 minutes. There were 21 speakers on the second reading and 14 in the Committee stage. Again, when the Bill was before the Senate it was debated for 10 hours 5 minutes and 25 senators participated in the debate. It must, therefore, be agreed that full and adequate time has been given for discussion to this limited 4-clause legislation. 
As the Bill is identical with that previously presented, I see no reason why the legislation should be delayed by a lengthy debate which will no doubt only provide a repetition of the well-worn arguments made by the Opposition on the previous occasion. It is also worth recording that in rejecting the Bill, the Senate did not advance any new arguments, their opposition being a blatant political move designed to maintain loaded electorates and destroy the principle of one vote one value. I repeat what I said of this legislation in my second reading speech earlier in the year: 
It is a challenge to those who sit opposite to stand up and be counted on the fundamental democratic principle of one vote one value and majority rule. This is the basis on which this legislation stands - nothing more, nothing less. 
The Government regards this Bill as a major piece of our legislative program, and in resubmitting it we expect that the Parliament will adopt a responsible approach and that the measure will be afforded a speedy passage through both Houses. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That, in lieu of the times fixed for the meeting of the House in paragraph (1) of the order of the House of 1 March 1973, for the remainder of this period of sittings, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the despatch of business on each of the following Mondays, viz: 17 September, IS and 22 October and 12 and 26 November, at two o'clock p.m., on each Tuesday at eleven o'clock a.m., or such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the Chair, on each Wednesday at half-past eleven o'clock a.m. and on each Thursday at ten o'clock a.m. 
That paragraph (2) of the order of the House of 1 March 1973 with respect to the adjournment of the House be varied by omitting 'at fifteen minutes to eleven o'clock p.m. on each Tuesday' and inserting in place thereof 'at fifteen minutes to eleven o'clock p.m. on each Monday and Tuesday'. 
The motion I have just moved is to enable the House to adopt a number of changes in the sitting arrangements for the sittings. The changes, if agreed to by the House, will begin to operate from Tuesday next, 28 August. Details of the proposed arrangements have been made available to honourable members but it may be helpful if I summarise them. Firstly, we propose that when the House resumes on Tuesday, 6 November after a week's adjournment, it will sit for 5 weeks, taking us to Thursday, 6 December. Of course, we might need to review the tentative termination date later in the sittings. Secondly, we propose that starting from Monday, 17 September the House should sit on Mondays for half of the sitting weeks. The dates proposed are 17 September, 15 and 22 October and 12 and 26  November. The House will meet at 2 p.m.. when it sits on Mondays. 
Thirdly, it is proposed that the House sit earlier on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. On Tuesdays it will meet at 11 a.m. and on Wednesdays at 11.30 a.m. Honourable members will recall that in the latter part of the autumn sittings the House met at 10 a.m. on Tuesdays and 11 a.m. on Wednesdays. This caused some difficulties and it is now proposed that there be slightly later meeting times. Fourthly, the arrangement whereby the House rises each night not later than 1 1 p.m. will continue. On Mondays and Tuesdays the adjournment will be moved at 10.45 p.m. and on Wednesdays and Thursdays at 10.15 p.m. Finally, meal arrangements will be the same as in the autumn sittings, namely, from 1 p.m. to 2.'1 5 p.m. for luncheon and from 6.15 p.m. to 8 p.m. for dinner. 
I am sure honourable members will be fully aware of the need for the changes which the Government is proposing. The Government has a heavy legislative program to put before the Parliament. In fact the number of Bills that we intend to introduce, and with which I will deal later, is expected to exceed by a considerable margin the number of Bills that the Parliament normally passes in a whole year. Obviously this will place strains upon the Parliament. The Government is anxious that these strains be kept to a minimum, while providing opportunity for adequate debate of its important legislative proposals, and that the interests of honourable members and of the staff, of course, be preserved as far as it is possible to do so. I am sure that I will have the support of the House for these proposals. 
The Government examined carefully all possibilities. The first conclusion it reached was that the arrangement whereby the House rises at 11 p.m. each night should continue. Late night sittings are an imposition on everyone concerned and I am sure nobody would wish to return to them. Of course, the earlier meetings in the mornings will cause some inconvenience but honourable members must expect to put themselves out to some degree if the Parliament is to implement the reforms for which the Australian people have asked. The Government appreciates that Monday sittings will reduce the time that members can spend with their constituents but additional time must be found for sittings, and meeting on some Mondays appears to be the most reasonable solution. I believe that Friday sittings, which the Government also considered, are less convenient to honourable members and less useful to the Parliament because the House cannot sit beyond midafternoon. 
I refer now to private members' time. The previous Government made it a practice during the Budget and Estimates debates to take over Thursday mornings for Government business on the rather strange ground that honourable members could debate matters of their own choosing during the Budget and Estimates debates. The Government does not propose to continue this bad practice. On Thursday mornings general business and grievance debates will be held as usual. I should mention, in this regard that during the autumn sittings problem) were experienced occasionally when the Government sought to ensure that the House had the opportunity to bring general business matters to a vote. Some honourable members felt, rightly or wrongly, that they were being forced to vote on matters that they had not had adequate time to consider. It also happened on a couple of occasions that general business was extended into the afternoon period thus taking away precious time from Government business. To avoid these problems in these sittings I suggest to the House that it would be more suitable if when the normal time for general business expires and it is not practicable to take a vote on the matter before the House the debate be adjourned. At a later stage, if it is so wished, the House could arrange a special Friday sitting devoted entirely to dealing with outstanding business debates. 
Before I conclude, and having given this explanation, I should like to give honourable members some idea of the legislative program that will face them in this session in order to substantiate the need for some change in sitting times. The number of Bills to be presented during this session will approach 200. Honourable members will agree that a legislative program of this magnitude will necessarily require more hours of sitting and more days of sitting. The proposal must be considered in the light of the fact that the average number of Bills for a full year during the last 5 years has been about 133. The highest number passed in a previous Budget session was 93 in 1968. Generally Bills were spread fairly evenly between the autumn and Budget sittings. For the benefit of honourable members I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard figures supplied to me by the  Clerk  concerning the number of Bills presented. I might mention that I am not using these figures for political purposes. This is interesting information for honourable members. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="085131197308220_39_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. This session the House will have twice as many Bills as usual to debate. True, some of them will be the subject of cognate debates but if they are all completed within the time set down the Parliament this year will have passed a record number of 320 Bills. A legislative program of this size naturally means that the Parliament must sit for longer periods. During the last 5 years the average number of days on which Parliament sat was 55, the highest number being 74 in 1971. The proposals I have outlined provide for 44 sitting days in this Budget session and a total for the year of 78, which is the highest number for some years. This gives an indication of the program before the Parliament. This program must be carried out. It would present difficulties if we adhered to the old hours. 
Since this Government was elected it has endeavoured to give the fullest possible opportunity for private members in this Parliament to express their views on subjects with which they are concerned. Several desirable reforms have been attempted. I mention a few. The House now adjourns at not later than 1 1 p.m. General business has always been called on and grievance debates have been permitted. Adjournment debates have been held each night and attempts have been made to allow a reasonable time for discussion of legislation. Honourable members know that this is factual information. I withdraw any criticism of the previous Government at this stage. I think members opposite would agree with me that these are desirable moves. The previous Government probably did not introduce such reforms during the last session it was in office because of its legislative program but they are necessary if members are to be able to express themselves. I might mention that the Australian Parliament sits about onethird of the time that the Congress of the United States of America, the House of Commons of Canada and the British House of Commons sit. Recently when I was abroad I took the opportunity to study the proceedings of those legislatures. They sit almost constantly throughout the year with breaks here and there in certain circumstances. I do not know how they arrange such sittings or what is done but there appears to be reasonable agreement between all parties on matters appertaining to debates and discussion. Arrangements are made and respected, but from what I can see that is not possible in many respects in Australia. 
I believe that the Parliament will have to sit longer hours. I hope later this year to be able to submit for consideration by the Government a program which may extend the sittings of this Parliament for an additional 2 months next year in order to avoid the inconvenience to some honourable members that will result from the proposed sitting hours. I have been a member of this Parliament for a long time but the procedures broadly are the same as they were when I first entered this place. In this enlightened age there must be change. Many of the time-wasting procedures will have to disappear otherwise honourable members will be required to remain here from Christmas Day to Christmas Day. I believe that ultimately consideration on an all-party basis must be given to amending the Standing Orders and our procedures so that Bills which are considered to be of major importance are debated instead of minor Bills which sometimes occupy valuable time. I do not criticise honourable members for being obstructionists, for putting their points of view or for demanding their right to speak. After all, that is part of our parliamentary procedures but in the interests of the whole Parliament I believe it would be better if procedures could be laid down whereby Bills that matter can be discussed in preference to subjects that do not matter. I instance the occasion when the House spent 90 minutes debating whether an additional minute should be allowed for the ringing of the division bells. 
I have made some constructive suggestions. Later I shall move a motion relating to our committee system to institute procedures which have been adopted in other countries to streamline the proceedings of the Parliament and to enable business to proceed more smoothly. It is a matter for the Parliament to decide whether it wants it or not. But these things will have to be done if the Parliament is to get through its work. The changing of hours is even more inconvenient for the Government than it is for the Opposition. The Cabinet sits sometimes on Sundays and on Monday mornings. Our Party meeting has been put forward li hours to meet the proposals put forward in respect of Wednesdays because there is a realisation that this is the only way in which we can get through the sittings in reasonable hours. Otherwise honourable members will have to go back to the old days of sitting all night. 
I just make those broad observations. I commend the proposals to the House. We believe that they represent the best available compromise between the interests of individual members and, of course, the staff, and the need to provide sufficient time to deal with our legislative program. I hope that honourable members on both sides of the Parliament will give their co-operation to these proposals and the ensuing business to ensure that it goes through the Parliament objectively, constructively and with full discussion. I am one who believes that the public thinks we are now fairly well off here and that parliamentarians are doing pretty well. Honourable members on both sides of this Parliament are under close scrutiny. Many members of the public think - probably rightly so - that we do not sit long enough or often enough. I suggest that today, when honourable members opposite are considering what attitude they will adopt to these proposals, they give due consideration to public opinion on this issue and not vote against the extension of the sitting hours of this Parliament to which is needed to enable it to put through legislation which is vitally important and which the people are entitled to have fully discussed in reasonable hours, at reasonable times and with proper and adequate consideration. I commend the proposal to the House. 
 in reply - Nothing brings the Liberal Party and the Country Party back to the ground more than a term in opposition. Never have I heard so much rot in my life as what has been said in this debate. I suggest to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  that instead of members of the Liberal 'Party and Country Party having breakfast in bed they get up in the morning and meet at 9 o'clock as members of the Australian Labor Party do. The honourable member said that the former Government never asked the House to sit on Saturday. Of course it did not but we sat all night and we went home at a time when only the perverts, the police and the prostitutes were on the streets. That is what happened under a Liberal Government. We sat here in the middle of the night. Listening to Liberals talking in the day time is bad enough without having to sit up in the middle of the night and hear them warbling on. The honourable member spoke about the committees that are meeting. Shortly I will be introducing a measure - we will see. if the honourable member votes for it - that will give appropriate times for committees to meet. 
The honourable member said that the Opposition wants more time for debate; yet the Opposition has moved an amendment seeking to reduce by an hour and a half the time we have allowed for debate. How silly can you get? The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  said that it is monstrous to change the hours of sitting as we have proposed. He said that it would upset the whole Parliament; yet he is supporting an amendment that reduces the sitting time by an hour and a half and he is going to vote for everything he says is monstrous. I wish honourable members opposite would sort themselves out. Fancy talking about their record of open government. Remember the 19 Bills that were dealt with in 17 hours  -  5 minutes for a Bill dealing with rural subsidy and a minute and a half for a Bill dealing with the telescope at Siding Springs Observatory. Remember those days. This is the record of those men who tell us they want freedom of speech. 
The honourable member for Angas says that he should not be here 5 days a week. He is getting $14,500 a year in salary and $4,000 in tax-free expenses. He is paid to be in this place. Let him go back and tell his electors that he does not want to be here. Having a good look at him, I wonder why they ever sent him here. The honourable member talked about days for private members' business. We never had a day for private members' business when the present Opposition was in government. General business was never discussed. It disappeared into the limbo of the forgotten. Honourable members opposite talk about free speech and they talk about staff. I sat on the Opposition side of the Parliament for 24 years. In that time an Opposition member could not get a typist to help him. The honourable member for New England, who was in the Ministry for 7 years and who has been a member of Parliament for many years says that the Opposition wants staff and attention, but I say to the honourable gentleman: You never gave a damn for us; you never gave a hoot about us; and today you are sitting there cringing for assistance from a Government to which, when it was in Opposition, you gave nothing. Having a good look at him, I can say that he wants assistance. The situation now is that the Opposition is crying out for clerical staff and for attention. For 24 years previous governments let us take it. We got nothing at all. They thought that our ignorance would keep us out of government. But they realise how bright we are now that we are sitting on this side of the Parliament We won office without assistance and without staff. The Liberals would not give us anything. Tonight they are talking about what they ought to receive. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  nearly made me sick when I heard him talking about these things. Why does the Opposition not make time for its party meetings and committee meetings? Members of the Labor Party are in the party room for  2i  hours from 9 o'clock on Wednesday mornings when the Parliament is in session. After the recess of a couple of months I strolled around Parliament House and saw on the notice board outside the party room of the Opposition - the alternative Government - that it would meet at 12 o'clock on the day that the Parliament first met after the recess. That shows how interested Opposition members are. They are  going to spend only li hours discussing what would happen here because they could not be bothered coming from Melbourne, Booligal, or wherever they come from, a day earlier to discuss matters. 
The honourable member for New England says that he wants longer hours. A man named Lynch moved the amendment and a man named Sinclair seconded it. I could not help thinking that they must both be of Irish extraction because only Irishmen could move a motion for extra hours that would mean that the hours would be reduced. That is precisely what happened. The Government moved a motion to sit at 11.30 a.m. Honourable members opposite said: 'No. We want  longer hours. We move that we sit at 2 o'clock'. They would not get away with that even in Belfast. The honourable member says that he wants adequate time to discuss and debate matters. He referred to 5 Bills being introduced every day. If one considers what happened in this Parliament under the previous Government one will see that we are giving members a luxury of discussion. Since this Government came to office, every night that the Parliament has met there has been an adjournment debate. Every Thursday that private members business was set down it was called on. Every day that a private members Bill was brought on it was discussed and debated, much to the annoyance of honourable members opposite who wanted to hide from a lot of issues such as abortion on demand. This Parliament has put through more legislation than has ever been put through before. 
Honourable members opposite spoke about the guillotine and all that is associated with it. Since this Government came to office the Parliament has not sat past 11 o'clock at night; whereas, as I said earlier, we were here all day and night when the previous Government was in power. Honourable members opposite raised the point of an honourable member not being allowed to speak today. The Government cannot be sorting out their troubles. It is shocking to see the Liberal Party and the Country Party fighting in public. It upsets me. I do not become upset easily, but I hate to see the distress of the Opposition parties. Let me say that in this session if there is to be an 
Opposition spokeman there will be only one, and the Opposition parties can work it out amongst themselves. The Government will not sort out their troubles. The Liberal Country parties pose before the public as being unified, yet they want to speak in this Parliament as 2 separate entities. Honourable members opposite have said: 'Let us sit longer'. In the last session they challenged us to sit longer and we accepted the challenge. 
Of course you did, and on the final night you had 39 members here out of 58. They all went back to their businesses or their country farms. The Opposition challenged the Labor Party to be here. We had the full complement and the Opposition was nearly 20 short. What would the Opposition's elder statesmen, or backwoodsmen, in the other place say if we made honourable members opposite sit here until Christmas Eve and they had to come there on Christmas Day to knock back our legislation? They just would not like it. I give this warning to honourable members opposite: They have challenged us to sit longer. If they waste time as they have on this motion they will 'be here until Christmas Eve, and they can have their turkey and duck in the chamber. This Government will put its legislation through. I do not want to hear from the Opposition phoney arguments about wanting extra time to discuss things and then supporting motions that reduce the actual time that the Government is allowing. What extra time in a week would the Opposition suggest that we give? 
The trouble is that, as the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  said, honourable members opposite are inexperienced in Opposition. They have a lot to learn. They are now about up to the stage I was at 30 years ago, and that is a long way back. They have to learn to have their meetings at 7 o'clock at night. They will have to get out of bed and have their breakfast at the table early instead of staying in bed. They cannot let the honourable member for New England go back to Armidale with a rural Bill that has been introduced without telling them anything about it for a week. They must reform. They must get together. I know their problems. The unity ticket over there is obvious. With one party courting the Democratic Labor Party, things are really desperate. As honourable members know, the Country Party has turned its back on the one it knew so well to go to that strange old lady. This brings complications. I can understand the problems. Let me repeat for the nation to hear that this Government has given private members of this Parliament more than they have been given by any other government in our history. I was on the Opposition Executive for more than 10 years and I could not get extra secretarial help from the previous selfish Ministry. 
I believe that members of this Parliament are entitled to a fair deal and to assistance of all kinds, but it is made exceedingly difficult when 2 former Ministers, who for years had all the plums of office, ridicule the Labor Party for not giving assistance to the Opposition as they refused to do for 24 years. Now they say that they want to debate major Bills. Of course they should. But what respect can be given to an Opposition that spends a couple of hours debating whether to sit extra hours in the time that they are paid by the taxpayers to be here and then wants to reduce the sitting time by a couple of hours? They have no right whatever to resist the proposed hours because it is time that should be spent debating great legislation. All honourable members have electorates and they have constituents to look after. All honourable members have to attend to their requirements. But I have always accepted that, as a member of Parliament, my primary responsibility is to be in this place. That is what every Government supporter believes. Tonight we have seen Opposition members condemning the motion for extra hours, moving a tinpot amendment to reduce debating time and yet insisting that they want extra time. That is the weirdest argument I have ever heard in my life. There is only one good thing about it, and that is that the Country Party and the Liberal Party are united. That will make me happy for a couple of hours. The only thing on which they are united is that they both oppose the extension of the sitting times of the Parliament. 
Let me remind the honourable member for New England and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  that they are both former Ministers not in Government now. We run the country, and it is a good thing. It seems, when I look at those 2 ex-Ministers opposite, that they have not read the election results. They are not running this Parliament. They are not bringing down the legislation. We are the Government that is bringing it down. We will call the tune because we have been elected by the Australian people to run this country. We want the hours of this Parliament to be changed. If honourable members opposite want more money for less work, that is their business; but we have responsibilities and we will sit here day and night, if necessary, to see that they are carried out. I invite honourable members opposite to vote against an extension of the sitting times of Parliament. The extended hours still will not take us within a fraction of the sitting hours of the Parliaments of Great Britain, America and Canada. I invite honourable members to vote against this motion, and to go back to their electorates and tell the people that they do not want to be in Parliament because they want to be back in their electorates looking after the cows, if they are in the Country Party, and God knows who, if they are in the Liberal Party. 
Reference has been made to the guillotine and the gag. It was said that the gag was applied 40 times in the last session. I will give honourable members some good news: I am still 350 behind the Liberals. Let me say on a more serious note that this motion was moved to give the Parliament the opportunity to debate legislation in detail. If honourable members opposite do not want to co-operate, if the Country Party and the Liberal Party want to show their disunity from time to time and if they do not want to debate the issues that really matter and want to give preference to issues such as those we are debating today, they can take their chance with the Australian public because the public knows what pay and allowances they receive. They know the facilities that honourable members opposite have and I am a bad judge if the average Australian believes that they ought not to be in this place to do their work and to carry out their responsibilities. Members of the Liberal Party and Country Party can do what they like but we know our responsibilities and we intend to respect them. We have moved the motion in order that this Parliament can put through legislation that means so much to everybody in this country and particularly to those people who depend for their salvation on legislation of the kind we are bringing down. I commend the motion to the House. I hope it will be carried. ' ! will be delighted 'to see those members who have said that they want extra time for debate voting to reduce the time we are allowing now. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lynch's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I move: 
That a Joint Committee be appointed to inquire into, report on and make recommendations for- 
a balanced system of committees for the Parliament; 
the integration of the committee system into the procedures of the Parliament; and 
arrangements for committee meetings which will best suit the convenience of Senators and Members. 
That the committee consist of three Members of the House of Representatives nominated by the Prime Minister, one Member of the House of Representatives nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, one Member of tha House of Representatives nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the House of Representatives, two Senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, one  Senator nominated  by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and one  Senator nominated  by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in the Senate. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a joint committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister or by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members and to refer to any such sub-committee any of the matters which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place and to sit during any recess or adjournment of the Parliament. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That five members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That in matters of procedure the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  presiding at the meeting have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, have a casting vote, and that, in other matters, the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  have a deliberative vote only. 
That the committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
That the committee or a sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee may proceed to the despatch of business notwithstanding that all members of the committee have not been appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy on the committee. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting that it concur and take action accordingly. 
In the previous debate in which we discussed the times of sitting much time was taken up, or comment was made, that the committee system could not function with the new sitting hours. Consequently this motion gives us an opportunity to debate this aspect and that is why I hope that ultimately this motion will be supported. This is a very important motion. It seeks that the proposed committee will make recommendations for a balanced system of committees for the Parliament, the integration of the committee system into the procedures of the Parliament, and arrangements for committee meetings which will best suit the convenience of senators and members. Those 3 terms of reference should, I think, be supported by all members of this Parliament because this is an opportunity and an attempt to bring to the Parliament some formality in regard to committees. 
In the first place I list the number of committees as shown on the notice paper for the House of Representatives and the Senate and seek leave to have them incorporated in Hansard. 
Fifteen committees in the House of Representatives, and 25 committees in the Senate are listed. It is true that some of these are also amongst those shown on the House of Representatives notice paper, but suffice it to say that there are many committees functioning at the present time. The committee system is a very important part of the legislative machinery of many parliaments throughout the world. For instance, in the USA most of the work of Congress is done by standing committees. These are permanent, specialised committees to which relevant legislation is referred for hearings and recommendations. There are also select committees created for special work and there is also the Committee of the Whole, which is the whole legislative body acting under relaxed procedures for the sake of speedier action. In Canada there are 14 standing committees in the House of Commons. They include committees on privileges and elections, railways, miscellaneous private Bills, public accounts and banking, commerce etc. Before a committee in Canada can act at all a Bill must be referred to it. Committee hearings provide legislators with the opportunity for questioning witnesses in order to gain information on Bills. After it has completed their inquiries a committee must then decide what action to take and report to the Commons. 
In Great Britain, committees are not given the importance of committees in, say the United States, although many Bills are considered by a Ways and Means Committee. The point I make is that in these three Parliaments, the committee system is well advanced and streamlines the proceedings of the Parliament while at the same time giving a better informed presentation of the legislation to the Parliament. 
The purpose of this motion therefore would provide for inquiries into the functioning of committees such as these, firstly to sec if the committee system could be effectively used in our Parliament. 
It is essential that a balanced system of committees of the Parliament be decided upon and, at the same time, the incorporation of the committee system into the procedures of the Parliament, such as is happening, say in Great Britain, Canada and U.S.A. might well be of advantage to this Parliament. 
I believe this would enable us to overcome many of the problems associated with matters in the Parliament and discussions that have arisen in recent times. An extension of the committee system might well provide longer hours for debate, better presentation of debates in this Parliament and more information and in many ways might not only speed up the processes in Parliament but make it possible for us to make better informed decisions. The practical side of the committees is one that must receive consideration. Members of both Houses are finding it exceedingly difficult to regularly attend Parliament and at the same time attend meetings of committees of which they are members. Sittings of the House interfere with committee meetings. For instance, such things as the calling of quorums can interfere with them, whilst committees are in session divisions may take place. Interference occurs and all these factors are making it most inconvenient for members to attend committee meetings. This Committee could inquire into the question of pairs, of quorums and of how the Standing Orders could be amended to allow members to participate in committee meetings and at the same time how these committees could within the functions of Parliament, be useful in the deliberations that take place in this chamber. In any case, it is quite true that the present system must be investigated in order to give the committees a real standing in the parliamentary sense and also to fit them into the Australian parliamentary system. 
It is inevitable that we will not be able to continue with the sittings of our Parliament without some arrangements being made in an orderly way for the committees to function not only independently in their inquiries and all that goes with that but also at the same time for their deliberations and their decisions to be presented to this Parliament in a way that will provide for better debate and speed up the practice and all that goes with it. 1 suggest in all good faith to this House that this matter must be faced up to. It was mentioned even in a debate earlier tonight that members were finding it exceedingly difficult to attend committee meetings because of the sittings of the Parliament. As I have mentioned, there are numerous committees. It is only right that these committees should have been established. They are all important committees when they are appointed and members should be given the opportunity to attend meetings. But there is nothing more annoying or distracting than when in the middle of hearing a witness in a committee a quorum of one of the Houses of Parliament is called or there is a division or something of that nature. I think at this advanced stage we should be able to arrange for the committees to function effectively. Some arrangements should be made amongst responsible men for the committees to function without interruptions. 
This is only one aspect of this matter. More importantly, committees could play a tremendous part in the deliberations of this Parliament. It is idle to suggest otherwise. We cannot continue in this Parliament with the kind of procedures we have at this time and avoid criticism from the Opposition - probably this could be brought forward quite rightly - that full time has not been given to some debate that some member is interested in. I think that if this proposed committee could study closely the workings of the committee ' system in other countries and bring back here its findings and we could then incorporate them in our parliamentary system, that would be beneficial to both sides of the Parliament. The proposed Committee will consist of 5 members of this House and 4 members of the other place. The  chairman  will come from either House. 
Honourable members have all read no doubt the terms of reference that I have suggested. We are open to correction if honourable members thing the terms of reference could be suitably amended whereby the system could be improved. 
They are on the business vaper. They are there for discussion. I hope that the House will not dismiss this lightly. If there is one issue on which honourable members might well take a non-party view it is the functions and the workings of committees and what can be done to improve the committee system in this Parliament. It is in all good faith that I submit the motion to the House. Naturally it has Government support. If honourable members opposite have constructive suggestions that might help, if they think there is a way in which we can improve what has been suggested here, if they feel that their suggestions could be of benefit to the Parliament, I hope they will come forward with those suggestions, because it is very important not only in the ordinary routine workings of these committees that something be done to give them set times to meet and set responsibilities and also internally to bring them into the parliamentary system. I think it is vital in this day and age, and something must be done. 
This is an unusual motion; we are asking the House to set up a committee to inquire into committees. But this matter has been so long delayed, and 1 think it is well worthy of the consideration of this House. I submit it in all good faith and I hope that the Opposition parties will consider it carefully. Let us see if we cannot work out some proposal that will allow us not only to let the committees function without the interruptions I have mentioned, but at the same time give some contribution to the deliberations of this House and the other House. I think would be beneficial generally. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
I would be very surprised if the statement made by the honourable member is one of fact, but I shall investigate it. I remind him that the Commonwealth electoral office at Parramatta during the last Federal election campaign was outdated and outmoded and in every way unsuitable as an electoral office. I understand that, in accordance with the progressive policy of this Government to provide electoral officers with the best of conditions in which to work after their long suffering under the previous government, we have secured new offices. Probably the officers moved into them in order to ensure that the Parramatta by-election is conducted in circumstances and with facilities which are better than those which existed on the last occasion. I shall investigate the allegations mentioned by the honourable member, but I would say that they would be completely inaccurate. 
I ask leave of the House to give to the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  the information he sought in connection with the Parramatta electoral office. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Pay-roll Tax Assessment Bill 1973 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 in reply - A few matters have been raised during the course of this debate to which I should reply briefly. I agree with those honourable members who have said that there are numerous parliamentary committees. It is true that whilst there are numerous committees in this Parliament none of them has functioned as effectively in our parliamentary system as do such committees in many other countries. With the growth of work, forgetting all about sitting hours, and the numerous problems that must be discussed in the national Parliament, some system must be devised whereby some issues can be deliberated in committees and more specialised and knowledgeable debate take place in the Parliament. I do not think we can keep abreast of developments in parliamentary systems if we continue our debates under a system devised many years ago and which lays down provisions for so many hours for a second reading debate. 
Having listened to a number of honourable members opposite, particularly those I look at now, I believe that service on a committee would improve their knowledge tremendously. A proper investigation may result in ways of shortening effective debate whilst not curtailing the right of expression in the Parliament of those who have an intimate knowledge of a subject under discussion. Undoubtedly they would be able to give the benefit of their knowledge more informatively and in a shorter period to those honourable members who do not possess such knowledge. 
Much is to be said for committees meeting when the Parliament is not sitting. Quite frankly it is impossible to have intelligent committee meetings when, in accordance with the proceedings of the Parliament, such meetings can be interrupted when quorums of the House are called and divisions taken. One matter into which the proposed committee might inquire is how to avoid such occurrences when committees are deliberating on important matters. Much has been said about the changed sitting hours of the Parliament. I understood that the Opposition did not oppose the extended sitting hours although it moved some minor amendment. Whilst clamouring for extra time in the Parliament the Opposition moved an amendment to reduce the sitting hours. Of course that kind of reasoning is worthy of investigation by a committee. Long before hours were extended in this Parliament there was trouble with committee sittings. This occurred during the last Parliament. There will always be such trouble unless some method is adopted whereby time is put aside for committee meetings. Honourable members have suggested that because of the extended sitting hours committee meetings cannot be held. I point out that there are many Fridays in a year when honourable members could linger in Canberra to serve on a committee. There are many Monday mornings when honourable members could be present for committee meetings. Of course Country Party members would have to leave their cows, trees and horses. Someone else would have to milk the cows on Sunday evenings. 
I do not blame the honourable member for spending a lot of time in his electorate. However I give him the good oil that if he stayed away longer his electorate would appreciate him more. The situation is that we are not now determining the committee system. I hope that from this motion a joint committee will meet and make recommendations whereby parliamentary committees can function more effectively. It has been said that a joint committee is proposed. It is proposed that a joint committee investigate the committee system to see whether it can be made to function more effectively. The joint committee will have an investigatory role. It must be a joint committee. If the Parliament wants to continue as it is operating, Opposition members will not participate in the joint committee, but if they want the sensible functioning of the Parliament they will agree that something must be done. 
It is idle to think that every honourable member in the Parliament can debate every Bill. It would not matter how knowledgeable an honourable member was, the House would have to sit 24 hours every day of the year to enable all members to speak to all matters. This would not work. If as a result of the operations of the proposed joint committee the procedures of the Parliament can be streamlined without interfering with the Parliament's deliberations a big forward step will have been taken. I am pleased that honourable members opposite are not opposing the motion although they have, in a strange way, damned it with faint praise. As I look about me I can see many honourable members who would benefit from serving long terms on committees. They could learn much. If, in future, committees function as the Government believes they might, honourable members may have the opportunity to serve on such committees. In the investigation that takes place every aspect of committee work can be examined including whether committee meetings should be interrupted, when they should be held, should the Parliament not meet until a certain hour, say 12 noon, in order to allow committees to function and whether committee meetings should continue during meal hours. These matters can all be considered by the joint committee to determine how committee meetings can be dovetailed into the parliamentary system and parliamentary machine. 
I am pleased that the Opposition is not opposing the motion. I would, however, ask honourable members opposite to speak with the recalcitrant backwoodsman in the other place to see whether, for once, they might recognise the enlightenment that is flowing from this chamber and support this proposal. The knowledge they gain from mingling with members from this side of the House in a joint committee would be an inspiration to them in their efforts to get back into government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: . 
and (2) Information in respect of the Department of the Special Minister of State is: Number of Buildings: 
I do not wish to detain the House for long. 
Well, I would but if that happened the debate might go over and I would hate to deprive my friends opposite of the opportunity to speak in this debate. So, do not tempt me too much. It was interesting to hear members opposite, criticise the greatest Budget in 24 years. Nobody is crying more than members of the Australian Country Party. They have bled the nation with bounties and subsidies and uneconomic proposals for a generation or more because, when in government, they dictated what the Treasurer of the day should do. But today, they do not matter a damn to members of the Liberal Party or to the nation. They cannot propound their policies and hold the Government to ransom. A government which really believes in the welfare of Australia is distributing the income of the nation in the places where it should be distributed. It is going to the poor and the needy and the people who want it. 
Honourable members opposite know that pensioners and people who depend upon social welfare schemes in the country and the city and everywhere else today are receiving the benefits they were denied for so long by those who sit opposite. I heard the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  say one day in this House that a telephone was connected to a man's farm in the country and it would have been cheaper to buy the farm than to connect the phone to the farm. This is the kind of incompetence with which the previous Government put up in these areas. Never have I seen a more angry collection of people than members of the Country Party debating this Budget. They have attacked the PostmasterGeneral, they have attacked the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and they have attacked everybody else because all the Country Party has ever stood for was handouts. Members of the Liberal Party opposite who kowtowed to the Country Party, who were bludgeoned into submission and who bowed and scraped every time the Country Party demanded something today do not matter in the big scheme of things; they are getting the rewards which they deserve. 
The Country Party is so desperate for political power that it is trying to marry that dear old girl, the Democratic Labor Party. I will tell honourable member something: It will find that 'the old grey mare ain't what she used to be many long years ago'. Members of the Country Party are really desperate when they look for support from that area. To think that the Country Party has shunned the lady that it knew so well - the dear old Liberal Party. To think that it has turned its back on the Liberal Party. The Country Party is walking away from the Liberal Party and yet the Liberal Party is vying for the favours of the Country Party because even today in another place the Liberal Party was bludgeoned into supporting the Country Party's policy on redistribution of electoral boundaries. I take this opportunity to tell honourable members opposite that this Party believes in one vote one value. In another place today members of the Opposition defeated legislation passed by this Parliament. But let me state for the nation to hear: Ere this Parliament is out there will be a redistribution of electoral boundaries throughout the length and breadth of Australia and it will be a case of one vote one value. That legislation will be introduced in order to give effect to equality of voting because, this Government stands against the loading of electorates which allows people like those in possum paddock, if I might use the expression with 50 per cent fewer electors that I have in my electorate, to receive the same vote as people who represent a majority of the votes in Australia. 
Is it not shocking to think that a person in the country, no matter what his position might be, has twice the voting capacity of, say, a brain surgeon in Macquarie Street, Sydney, or a professor simply because the latter group of people happen to live in a Sydney or Melbourne metropolitan electorate. In other words, members of the Country Party want loaded votes and, to tell you the truth, having a good look at the Country Party, how could they win except under an undemocratic political system? Notwithstanding the Democratic Labor Party, the Country Party and the toadies who sit opposite and call themselves Liberals, we will introduce legislation that will produce equality of voting. In the United States of America the courts have the right to intervene in electoral matters where injustice has been created. It is only because the Liberal Party is afraid of the Country Party that the people of this country have foisted upon them a system that must be the worst in the world in regard to inequality of voting. 
Does anybody believe that someone who lives in, say, Canowindra should have twice the voting capacity as a person who lives in 
Sydney or Melbourne? Do honourable members opposite really believe in that policy? Members of the Liberal Party say they believe in one vote one value, but those who sit beside them say they do not believe in it. This is the unity of the Opposition. Just where does the Opposition stand on this great fundamental issue? Do not think that a temporary reverse from the backwoodsmen who sit in another place has put us off. Ere another year is out you will face a redistribution of Federal electoral boundaries. I ask honourable members opposite whether they will reject a redistribution in Western Australia where 10 seats must be created before the next election is held, knowing full well that if a Federal election is held only 9 seats are contested in that State, it can be challenged constitutionally. Will these weak kneed Liberals who sit opposite give effect to a policy that will deny Western Australia the extra seat? They will get the chance to do that ere very long. They believe in electoral justice. The electorate of the Australian Capital Territory is to be divided into 2 electorates. 
That great small '1' liberal, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  believes in some electorates having 50 per cent fewer voters than have other electorates. This is the small T liberal who is the chosen man of the Liberal Party to lead it into the sublime in the future. Does he really believe that at the next election Diamond Valley should have 95,000 voters while Mallee, which sent to this Parliament the man who sits among the incompetent members of the Country Party should have 45,000 or 50,000 electors. Of course he believes in that for the simple reason that he does not believe in electoral justice. 
I see the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  slumbering quietly on the front bench. If I might say so, he is unmoved by my eloquence. He is on record in this Parliament as voting for a 10 per cent variation from the quota in electorates. Even in his slumbers I think he is dreaming about the tomorrow and thinking how things would be under a fair redistribution in this country. As honourable members opposite know, the Country Party for some reason or other has the Liberals scared. Does anyone believe that the Country Party could scare anybody? The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  is a real democrat. He was elected on 17 per cent of the primary vote. I repeat what I said the other night: He was very lucky to get it. He believes in the present system of voting. This is the pattern of thinking of those who sit opposite. 
My time is limited. I do not wish to detain the House, but, instead of issuing a statement to the Press, tonight I make this official announcement: Ere this Parliament is ended there will be a redistribution of electoral boundaries throughout the length and breadth of Australia. It will be done because we do not believe in one electorate having 100,000 electors and another having 60,000 or 50,000. We believe in the principle of one vote one value. We believe in equality of voting. We believe that a man's vote in this country should be equal no matter where he lives. The geographical selection of candidates and members is something which the Labor Party opposes. Whilst honourable members opposite might temporarily frustrate us, history shows that ultimately that kind of expediency brings the reward that it deserves. People will ultimately awaken to the fact that we must have equality of yoting in any country if we are to have a democratic system. Why would not the Country Party want some loaded system of voting when under such a system it gets only 9 per cent of the vote of the Australian people but exercises 20 per cent of the control of the Parliament when in government? That is the kind of system under which the Country Party exists. From memory, not one member of the Country Party has ever won more than 50 per cent of the primary votes before being elected to this Parliament. Of course they get more than 50 per cent after the distribution of preferences, but not one Country Party member has ever gained a majority on the first count. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  is a good friend of mine. A couple of years ago he was elected on 27 per cent of the primary vote. I could mention all the members of the Country Party. I wish I had the figures; I would make them blush, if that was possible. The Country Party is the minority Party. It is living on rigged electoral boundaries, on undemocratic proposals. To his eternal discredit the small T liberal, the honourable member for Kooyong, supports this situation because the Liberal Party is frightened of the Country Party, and that is like running away from a mouse. I do not want to continue my remarks at this stage. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later hour and suggest that the debate be now adjourned. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. The land was acquired on 13 December 1945 for $1,000 which was at that time the full market value. 
The Council indicated its desire to obtain the land for recreation purposes in July, 1952. The Council's interest in providing an aged persons home complex in the area was mentioned in April 1969. The Department of the Army declared the land surplus to its requirements in August 1972. 
and (5) Yes. 
and (7) The land was offered to the Council in February 1973 for $184,000.. The true market value of the land on the basis of the latest assessment is approximately $240,000. The offer was not accepted and has since been withdrawn. Consideration is now being given to the possibility of developing this land in co-operation with the State Government in such a way as to incorporate provision of homes for pensioners under the State Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act and possibly other dwelling units under existing and proposed Commonwealth legislative arrangements for migrants, students and exservice personnel. 
The Commonwealth is in the process of acquiring the property necessary for extension to Perth Airport. 
See answers to 6 and 7 above. The course of action proposed will undoubtedly serve the interests of the Council and the ratepayers of the Shire of Belmont. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
by leave - The request of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is understandable but the time provided for debate on Bills of this nature will depend on how much time is wasted by the Opposition on minor Bills. I suggest that if the Opposition arranges to curtail debate on Bills that do not matter it certainly will have more time to debate Bills of this nature. I do not know what the honourable member would call adequate time. A reasonable amount of time will be allotted, as is always the policy of this Government on important legislation. 
Within the limits of the time available time will be permitted but at the same time I suggest to the honourable member that it is up to the Opposition. If it can curtail its efforts on Bills that do not matter important matters like this can receive lengthy discussion. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Cowper. 
Yes. I remind the honourable member for Cowper that he is quoting from a proof or uncorrected copy of my speech last night. If he had been in the House earlier tonight and heard my explanation, he would have understood the position perfectly. 
I mentioned that the honourable member for Darling Downs got, I think, 17 per cent or 30 per cent of the primary votes. 
He got 32 per cent of the primary votes. In my explanation tonight I said that the honourable member for Cowper got 48.49 per cent of the primary votes of the electors of Cowper who were enrolled at the last election. A similar comment applies to the honourable member for New England. In order that the honourable member for Cowper will know that my explanation is correct and that he has misrepresented me, I ask him to refer to the weekly Hansard as soon as it is available and then tender the appropriate apology to me. 

 Mr IAN ROBINSON (Cowper)- I rise to a point of order. As I understand the precedent which has been established in this House, a member has the right to claim to have been misrepresented by quoting from Hansard. I have quoted from the daily Hansard of 
Wednesday, 29 August 1973. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  now claims that he should be excused. (Quorum formed.) Accordingly,  Mr Speaker,  I ask for your ruling as to whether in future it will not be permissible for members to claim, under the Standing Orders, that they have been misrepresented, by referring to the daily Hansard. If this is the case, I believe that it is a very retrograde step and a loss of privilege in this House. By the time the corrected Hansard is printed it is too late, in most instances, to claim to have been misrepresented. Take, for example, the present situation. The House will rise tonight and will not reassemble until Tuesday week. I believe that it would be quite inconsistent for you,  Mr Speaker,  to accept the point which was taken by the Minister. I refer again to the substance of the misrepresentation. I draw attention to the fact that the Minister has used these words: 
. not one member of the Country Party has ever won more than 50 per cent of the primary votes. 
Of course- 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The union body concerned in the ban is aware of the use to which 'F' Block of Reid House is to be put and does not oppose its removal, which is currently proceeding. The partially demolished block is being removed to Duntroon for use by the Association for Modern Education. 
The provision of car parking in Canberra ls the responsibility of the National Capital Development Commission which is within the area of responsibility of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
I am advised that the provision and control of parking spaces in the city is constantly under review. The introduction of paid car parking by the Department of the Capital Territory is awaited before any decisions are made about total provisions in parking. 
The most interesting point arising from this debate is that the Opposition is ashamed of its previous record and ashamed of anything on its records, and in addition to that- (Opposition members interjecting) 
One of the major reasons, apart from the excellent speech of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  why Standing Orders should not be suspended is that this is Grievance Day, the day when honourable members opposite demand that private members be given their opportunity to speak. Yet this morning we have seen them bring forward a motion that denies to those who squeal the loudest on the other side of the chamber, a right to say a few words in this House. In addition to that, for the first time in history in a Budget session honourable members can have a Grievance Day. Those who complain the most have taken away that opportunity with a frivolous motion. Could any better reason be given as to why this motion should not be carried? 
I have taken note of the honourable member's reason for moving this motion and I will keep well in my mind that he does not want a Grievance Day debate. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Killen's)  be agreed to. 
 I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bil] be as follows - 
For the Committee stages, until 9.45 p.m. this day 
For the remaining stages, until 10.0 p.m. this day. 
This is most important legislation and must be passed. Full and adequate time has been given for discussion on this Bill today and on the occasion when it was first introduced. I remind the House of what happened on the first occasion. The previous Bill was introduced on 12 April 1973 and was passed on 9 May. In that time the Government allowed 10 hours 7 minutes for discussion. At that time 5 hours 26 minutes was taken in the Committee stages and 4 hours 41 minutes on the second reading. Today we have allowed the Opposition 6 speakers in succession. Every honourable member opposite who wanted to speak this afternoon was allowed to do so and had we doubled the time for this debate it would not have allowed any more speakers from the Opposition side had Government speakers risen also. We also allowed the leader for the Opposition in the debate 50 minutes to put his case, if he so desired. Therefore, to say that there is not adequate time for discussion is completely false. 
I would have thought that this was essentially a Bill to be dealt with in Committee and that Opposition members would have been well advised to do what the Government members did, that is spend their time debating the important clauses or amendments to be moved in the Committee stages. I told the Leader of the Opposition earlier in the day that this Bill had to go through tonight because it was so urgent and important. I would have thought that a man with his knowledge, background and education would have recognised the importance of this Bill and the substance of my suggestion that he should debate the important parts and not make broad speeches. 
To those honourable members opposite who think that this Government has not given reasonable time for debate on this matter let me quote the record. Under previous LiberalCountry Party Governments between 1951 and 1972 the average time allowed for the second reading stages of a number of Conciliation and Arbitration Bills was 4 hours 3 minutes. The average time allowed for the Committee stages on such Bills when Opposition members were in government was 1 hour 22 minutes. The average delay after the introduction of the Bills until the House was allowed to debate them was 8 days, but on this occasion the Government has allowed the Opposition much more time than that. In addition the average time allotted for all debates on Conciliation and Arbitration Bills under the previous Government between 1951 and 1972 was 5 hours 25 minutes. Of course, honourable members opposite say that they allowed 20 hours debate last year on a Bill. But let us look at the debates on Bills introduced before that. In 1970 it was 2 hours; in 1969 it was none; in 1968 is was none; in 1967 it was 5 hours. We have to go back to 1956 to find a debate on a Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which went over 2 hours. Today this Bill has been debated since 3.25 p.m. and ere the night is out it will have taken about51/2 hours. 
So honourable members opposite will have had about 16 hours to debate this measure in this House alone. Yet they say that it is not sufficient. The problem with honourable members opposite is that they want to talk on everything and, as I mentioned before, there are very few of them who have yet read the last election results. They all think they are still in office; they all think they are still running the country; they all think they can lay down the business of government. So I say to the Opposition that if it continues to waste the time of this House like it did this morning-- 
I declare that the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1973 (No. 2) is an urgent Bill. 
The question before the House is that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announcing to the House the decisions reached by the Government since the Prime Minister's last Press conference. Quite frankly, I thought that after Parramatta the Opposition could have done better. When all is said and done, it would appear that members of the Opposition may be suffering from an attack of gallstones after the events of Saturday. Let me say that at least this motion has brought the Liberal and Country Parties together. Constantly, when motions are moved in the House for a statement to be made, we have to listen to 2 speeches from the Opposition parties because honourable members opposite do not know who is talking for whom. The situation is that during the period of the last Government Press conferences were never held and policy statements were never made, inside or outside of the Parliament. The decisions were kept secret by the clique or the junta that controlled that ill-famed organisation. As honourable members opposite know, this Government has announced consistently in the Parliment great measures, great legislative proposals and great reforms. 
Let me point out what honourable members opposite are asking for today: At this very hour the Executive Council is meeting. 
Cabinet has made decisions in regard to a number of appointments which have to be ratified and approved by  Her  Majesty's representative in this country. Do honourable members opposite expect the Prime Minister of this country to come into the House and make announcements concerning these matters even before the Governor-General has assented to them7 Do they seriously ask that that be done? Does the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  say that we should announce in the Parliament what will be done when such matters are still subject to the approval and endorsement of  Her  Majesty the Queen and probably run the risk of the Queen not accepting the matters? Does he say that? Even the members of the mushroom club would not - 
 There is nothing foolish about this. I repeat the position: At this very moment the Governor-General is considering certain Government decisions in regard to appointments. Does the Opposition say that it should be told before  Her  Majesty's representative in this country is told? Do honourable members opposite seriously say that? Of course, they do not. They know that they are putting up a phoney proposition this morning. It was never endorsed by their own Government. It was never more difficult to get decisions or submissions out of a government than it was from the previous administration which the honourable member who has just spoken helped to lead to its political doom. This Government has been the most open Government of our time. 
The claim by the Leader of the Opposition that every debate is gagged by this Government is a fantasy. If the record of curtailment of debates by the previous administration was compared with our record, what we have done would hardly be noticed. The reason why debates have been gagged by this Government is that stupid senseless motions such as the one now before the House are moved by the Opposition to waste the time of the Parliament. I tell the Opposition that. later today. I will give notice of a motion that will seek to stop these time wasting procedures such as the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition today. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that decisions of the Cabinet are overturned by the Labor Caucus. Unlike honourable members opposite, the Australian Labor Party is not run from the top. Honourable members opposite know that they were never consulted on any aspect of policy. They never knew what a budget contained until it was presented in the Parliament. Each member on the Government side of the House has an equal say in the running of this country, the administration of the Party and policy decisions. Consequently, Cabinet decisions must be submitted to the Party as a whole. We do not blindly follow, as honourable members opposite did as they went to their political doom, what is decided without knowing the substance of proposals which affect our electorates. That is why we on this side of the Parliament are consulted on decisions. 
The Leader of the Opposition stated that Cabinet was overturned by the Caucus. 1 remember when he appointed his shadow Cabinet. Then, his Party members decided that members of that shadow Cabinet should be elected by them. The selections by the Leader of the Opposition were overturned when that right to elect the Opposition shadow Cabinet was given to Opposition members. Looking at the few who were elected on the other side, I think that those who were beaten were unlucky to lose their positions. 
The Prime Minister brings to this Parliament legislative proposals and announcements of great importance. He makes them in the right place. This is the point at issue. We can never please the Opposition. When he appeared on television with  Mr David  Frost, the Opposition said that the Prime Minister first should have consulted the Parliament on the decisions he mentioned. More people in Australia on that night through that program saw and heard announcements and statements than probably have ever heard decisions by any political leader of our time. The Prime Minister meets the Press each week. He gives the Australian Press entree to what is happening in the Parliament. The Opposition says that instead of telling the Press the Prime Minister should come in here and tell the Parliament. Why, as honourable members know, this practice demonstrates a real approach to democracy in this country. 
The present situation arises because a desperate Opposition is clamouring for power which it cannot get. It wastes the time of the Parliament and then wonders why the time allowed for important debates must be curtailed. Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that the legislative proposals that will be announced here in the next few months will be such that a record will be created in this Parliament. 
 I think there are between 150 and 200. I urge honourable members opposite to be patient because they certainly will have available to them plenty of time to discuss many of these matters of great importance. In that way they will be able to give vent to whatever their feelings may be on the matters to be considered by the Parliament. 
I consider this motion to be frivolous. I say quite frankly that I would have thought that the Leader of the Opposition and the third most important man on the Opposition side of the Parliament had more to do "-t this time than to move and second this motion. At a time when all kinds of important issues face this Parliament I would have thought that they would seek more time to deliberate on those issues. The Government rejects this motion. I repeat that it is lovely to see the Country Party and the Liberal Party again speaking with one voice. The few fleeting moments of joy that I get from this debate arise from the opportunity to see them together again arm in arm supporting even a minor motion of this nature. 
The Government rejects the motion. The Prime Minister will continue to do as has been his wont. He will present to the Parliament decisions in accordance with determinations made by the Government from time to time. I understand that the Press conferences will continue. Good luck to them. The people are entitled to be told what the Government is doing. In addition, I hope that those members opposite who waste the time of the Parliament by moving motions such as this will realise that they cannot be allowed to continue to waste the time of the Parliament and then expect to be able to have time available to consider statements or other matters of that nature which are of great importance. Later today I will give notice of a motion that will seek to provide that the time wasting procedures indulged in by a temporarily exuberant Opposition will be dealt with in such a way that the Opposition will be brought to face the fact that it cannot take such action and at the same time expect important matters to be debated. The Government rejects the motion and will vote against it. 
by leave - Perhaps I might say a few words in relation to this matter the debate on which the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is seeking to have adjourned. The report before the House is important. It contains 42 pages and I know that the honourable member has not seen the details of the report. At an appropriate time he will be given the opportunity to speak after he has had a chance to study the report. That opportunity will be as soon as possible and when circumstances permit. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Speaker, this Bill, which seeks to provide Senate representation for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, is in identical form to the Bill having the same title which I introduced on 22 May 1973 and which was passed by this House on 30 May 1973. As honourable members would know, the motion for the second reading of the Bill was defeated in the Senate on 7 June i973. It is interesting to note, however, that when the second reading of the Bill was agreed to by this House on 29 May 1973, it was carried by 78 votes to 43. Seventeen members of the Australian Country Party crossed the floor and voted with the Government. The result of that division as recorded on page 2815 of Hansard shows that the other 3 members of the Country Party were absent when the vote was taken. Very little criticism was offered in this House by the members of the Country Party and in fact the Country Party member for the 
Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is recorded as saying in the course of his speech: 
In speaking to this Bill, I point out that in 1966 Senate representation for the Northern Territory was on my platform and it has been ever since . . . 
He further said: 
I support Senate representation for the Northern Territory . . . 
At another stage he went on to say: 
This Bill seeks to grant Senate representation to the Northern Territory. I say again that I welcome it . . . 
He further said: 
I am glad that it has been introduced because it provides a chance for the Northern Territory to get further representation in the Parliament . . . 
Yet, when the vote on the second reading of the Bill was taken in another place, we find that all 5 Country Party senators voted against it.  Senator Drake-Brockman,  at the conclusion of his speech, stated quite definitely: 
Therefore, we in the Country Party oppose the legislation. 
This is a remarkable display of political gymnastics based not on facts, principles or reason, but straight out political opportunism. I wonder whether it is more than coincidence that the Chinese acrobatic team is visiting Canberra this week. In fact the only party out of step in this House was the Liberal Party. Even the Australian Capital Territory federal electorate conference of the Liberal Party is reported in the 'Canberra Times' of 17 May 1973, under the heading 'Libs Wants Two A.C.T. Senators', as supporting the legislation. That article stated: 
The Australian Capital Territory Federal Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party may ask the Party's Senate wing to initiate moves to bring in legislation giving the A.C.T. two representatives in the Senate. 
The Conference may ask the Senate wing to initiate it, mind you. The article continues: 
The Federal Electorate Conference will also ask the Parliamentary Liberal Party to support any legislation providing for the two Senators. At its meeting last night, the Conference carried a motion supporting the establishment of two Senate seats for the A.C.T. both to be elected at the same time. The  Chairman  of the Conference,  Dr Peter  Hughes said today the legislation should be brought down as soon as possible. The two Senators are vital to Canberra because the A.C.T. is under-represented in that it does not have self-government', he said. 
In these circumstances, to say the least, the attitude of the Opposition parties to this legislation is indeed exceedingly difficult to follow. Of course we understand that they have one policy in this House and one in another place.  Senator Withers  said to the Leader of the 
Opposition: 'Keep your nose out of our business'. So evidently we have to negotiate 2 ways. 
My second reading speech when introducing the Bill is reported in Hansard at pages 2425 to 2430. In that speech, I fully explained the details and the purpose of the proposed legislation and, having in mind that the measures contained in the Bill were agreed to by this House, I do not propose to enter into a lengthy discourse on the many reasons which justify the proposed legislation. 
However, for the benefit of honourable members. I will deal briefly with the proposals contained in the Bill, and the purpose of the Bill. The Bill provides for the election of 2 senators each for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and that such senators have the same powers, immunities and privileges as senators representing the States; that the first election of Territory senators be held at the same time as the next Senate election in the several States or at the same time as the next general election for members of the House of Representatives, if such is held before or in conjunction with the next Senate election: that the term of the first Territory senators be from the date of their election until the eve of polling day for the ensuing general election for members of the House of Representatives; that after the first election for Territory senators, elections be held at the same time as the general elections for members of the House of Representatives; that after the first election of Territory senators, the terms of Territory senators be the period between each House of Representatives election; and for the Territory senators to be elected under the same system of proportional representation as that currently applicable to the election of senators representing the States, except in the case of a single casual vacancy when such vacancy shall be filled by the holding of a by-election adopting the procedures used for filling a single casual vacancy for a State senator, as far as may be applicable. Under another Bill to be presented later today, Territory senators will be excluded for the purpose of determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States in pursuance of section 10 of the Representation Act. 
The purpose of this Bill - and this is its only purpose - is to provide a measure of representation for the Australian Capital Territory and for the Northern Territory in the 
Senate and thus give some meaningful expression to section 122 of the Constitution in respect of the Senate as an integral part of this Parliament. Such representation is clearly permissible. Section 122 of the Constitution provides: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the Commonwealth, or of any territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
During the past couple of decades there has been a significant increase in the development and population growth of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. These 2 Territories, and the people who reside in them, are as much part of Australia as any other part. Had these areas not been formed into Territories they would have been within the States of New South Wales and South Australia respectively and their people would have participated in electing representatives to the Senate. We believe that while the national Parliament is comprised of 2 legislative chambers, all people and all parts of Australia should be represented in both chambers. We tried to bring this about in Opposition and we seek to bring it about in Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when Leader of the Opposition, introduced the Territory Senators Bill in 1968 and again in 1970. He explained the justification for the provision of senatorial representation for the Australian Capital Territory and for the Northern Territory on those occasions. This justification has continued to exist and to grow with the growth and development of the 2 Territories. 
I turn now for a moment to a matter which has been the subject of legal advice in relation to section 24 of the Constitution which provides, in part: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of Senators. 
On the basis of the advice by the Commonwealth legal advisers, the provision of Territory senators under section 122 of the Constitution does not cause an alteration in the number of members of the House of Representatives by virtue of section 24. Consequently, the proposed Territory senators will be excluded in determining the number of members to be chosen in the several States in pursuance of section 10 of the Representation Act. This will be made clear by proposed amendments of the Representation Act contained in the Representation Bill which I shall introduce later this day. 
The Bill before the House provides for senatorial representation for the Australian Capital Territory and for the Northern Territory differing in extent to representation in the Senate afforded the States. The Government proposes two senators for each Territory. We believe that it would be proper to have an even number elected each time for each Territory, thus allowing representation of the parties to be more evenly balanced than would be the case if only one senator for each Territory was provided. 
Fifteen years ago the Constitutional Review Committee, upon which all parties were represented, recommended that there should be an election for half the senators every time there was a general election for the House of Representatives. Bringing elections for Territory senators into line with House of Representatives elections accords with the recommendation of that Committee. It is proposed that the first election of the Territory senators will take place at the next Senate elections or at the next general election of members of the House of Representatives if such takes place sooner than the next Senate elections. The legislation gives effect to the Government policy to provide increased representation to the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. This Parliament has an obligation to give adequate representation to the people of these Territories. The Government is endeavouring to carry out its mandate and the Opposition in this House and another place should act with a sense of responsibility and not, by its actions, deny the people of these Territories the representation in the Australian Parliament to which they are so justly entitled. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
 I move:  That the  Bill  be  now read  a  second  time. 
This Bill, which is in identical form to the Representation Bill 1973 passed by this House on 30 May 1973 but rejected in the Senate on 7 June 1973, seeks to amend the formula in the Representation Act for determining the number of members of the House of Representatives in the several States. This legislation was carried without a division in this House on 30 May 1973, again with Country Party support. It was, however, rejected and voted against by the 5 Country Party senators in the Senate on 7 June 1973  -  another acrobatic act that is exceedingly difficult to follow. This was another example of opposition without rhyme or reason, evidently designed to embarrass rather than further the interests of the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
Before dealing with the amendments of the Representation Act proposed by the Bill, I will refer briefly to section 24 of the Constitution, which is relevant. Section 24 provides, in part: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth, and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of Senators. 
Section 24 further provides that the number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the respective numbers of their people and the section goes on to specify the manner in which that number is to be determined 'until the Parliament otherwise provides'. As honourable members will know, Parliament has otherwise provided in the Representation Act. A short time ago I re-introduced the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill 1973, which provides for senatorial representation for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The Government's legal advice is that section 24 of the Constitution does not have application in relation to senators who may be provided for a Territory under the provisions of section ' i22 of the Constitution. In other words, the requirement contained in section 24 for the number of members of the House of Representatives to be as nearly as practicable twice the number of senators does not relate to Territory members or senators provided under section 122 of the Constitution. Furthermore, 'the people of the Commonwealth' in the context of section 24 are the people of the States. The formula in section 10 of the Representation Act for determining the, number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States, sets out that a quota shall be ascertained by dividing the number of people of the Commonwealth by twice the number of senators. The number of members to be chosen in each State is determined by dividing the number of people of the State by the quota; and if on such division there is a remainder, one more member shall be chosen in the State. 
Clause 3 of the Bill before the House makes it clear that in applying the formula provided in section 10 'the people of the Commonwealth' are the people of the 6 States and do not include the people of any Territory. Clause 5 of the Bill which substitutes the words 'the Senators for the States' for the word 'Senators', makes it clear that Territory senators are excluded from the formula for determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States. Thus, consistently with section 24 of the Constitution, the introduction of Territory senators will not affect the representation of the States in the House of Representatives. Opportunity is being taken in clauses 4 and 6 of the Bill to make some amendments of a formal nature to sections 7 and 13 of the Representation Act. The present provisions of these sections do not take into account the fact that one House of the Parliament may be sitting although the other is not. At the same time it is desirable to bring the period within which regulations are to be tabled under sub-section (2) of section 13 into line with the period of 15 sitting days provided by the Acts Interpretation Act in relation to regulations generally. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate' covering this Bill, the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill and the States Grants (Home Care) Bill as they are all associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I confirm that what the honourable member says is correct. It is true that the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory are represented only in this place yet both Houses pass laws affecting those Territories. As a matter of fact, the honourable member for the Northern Territory in this House gave notice yesterday to disallow a regulation applying to the Territory that he represents. The Australian Labor Party, in accordance with its democratic practices, has endeavoured to remedy this situation by giving representation in both Houses to the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory. For once I congratulate the Australian Country Party in this House because its members supported that move, but their colleagues in another place decided to oppose it. Whether they will do that again and whether that acrobatic stunt will prevent democracy being given to these Territories, I am not in a position to know. But I assure the honourable member for Corio that the Labor Party is committed to giving representation to both Territories in both Houses of this Parliament. Legislation to that effect has been introduced, and I hope that common sense and the desire to give in both Houses democratic representation to the Territories will receive the support of honourable members opposite when the legislation is presented again. 
 Mr Speaker,  I ask for leave of the House to move a motion to suspend so much of the Standing Orders as would prevent the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  from moving forthwith the notice No. 1 standing in his name. 
I declare that the Constitution Alteration (Incomes) Bill 1973 is an urgent Bill. 
 The debate on the estimates for the Parliament is most important and I am grateful to honourable members for many of the constructive suggestions they have made. Before making some general comments I should like to answer in detail and as briefly as possible some of the matters that have been raised. The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  who generally gives much attention and study to this matter raised, as did other honourable members, the matter of question time and the limited opportunities that members have for asking questions. He referred also to questions on notice and matters of that nature. I must say that the average time this Government permits at question time is well up with that allowed by the previous Government. I do not say that the Government has an excellent record, but it is no worse than that of the previous Government. Consequently criticism of the length of replies to questions or the number of questions asked would apply more to the previous Government. Because of the time available, there are limitations. Members opposite naturally want to ask a lot of questions but one of the facts of parliamentary life is that all day cannot be allowed for questions every day. This situation does not apply in any parliament anywhere. As honourable members have said, time is the big factor. 
I believe that there must be radical changes in the general procedures of this Parliament as well as in the hours and days of sitting if legislation is to be passed. The honourable member for Ryan dealt also with the matter of quorums. I believe that a quorum of this Parliament should be no more than 20. Some parliaments have no provision for quorums at all. From memory, I think a quorum of the Canadian Parliament is 40 members out of a total of about 280. It is virtually impossible nowadays for members to attend committee meetings and perform other duties if they are required to be present in the House to maintain a quorum. Our requirement of one-third of the members of the House for a quorum is out of line with the thinking of parliaments in almost every other country. I know that some time ago the House referred this matter to the Standing Committee on Standing Orders and that it was rejected subsequently by the Parliament. However, I hope, with other honourable members, to refer a more acceptable proposal to the Standing Orders Committee when next it is considering this matter. 
The honourable member for Ryan suggested that there should be more weeks of sitting rather than more days of sitting. I agree with him. I think it can be accepted that in future there will be longer sittings of the Parliament, not so much by way of increased sitting hours each day but for more weeks of the year. While the procedures adopted in this Parliament remain as they are at present, with no committee system such as that suggested by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or other honourable members, all debates must take place in full in this chamber. It will be just impossible to give everybody the opportunity to speak at length on all the debates, unless the committee of inquiry into the committee system, which I am pleased the Opposition supported, has some effective result and is able to streamline the procedure for dealing with Bills, particularly those that may be of minor importance, but also those of major importance, before the debates take place in this Parliament. 
I heard the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  speak. I remind him that the Opposition has a perfect right to use to the full the Standing Orders and the procedures of the Parliament to redress grievances, to put its point of view as it thinks fit and to see that its case is put. But the Government has the same right to use the Standing Orders of this Parliament to take effective action to see that its legislation proceeds. I do not quibble at the Opposition using the Standing Orders of the Parliament, but it should not squeal when we use them in return, for one of the facts of life in a parliament is that the majority must rule. No government can allow an opposition to take the proceedings of parliament out of its hands. The honourable member for Kennedy also said that debates were curtailed suddenly. I wonder: Did that start on 2 December? I sat on the Opposition side of the chamber for 24 years and I was gagged so many times that I got knocked up trying to count them every day of the week. And who will ever forget the 20 Bills that were put through here in about 17 hours? No government in our time was more ruthless in the misuse of parliamentary procedures than was the previous Government. But is it not remarkable that after 6 or 8 months in Opposition honourable members opposite are all great reformers of the parliamentary system? 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  has been a member of the Parliament since 1966. He never said a word about questions or the gag before and now that he is in Opposition one cannot stop him talking about reform of the procedures of the Parliament. He is like Rip Van Winkle. He has been asleep for 20 years. Opposition members talk of the conditions of Parliament House. But they were in government for 24 years. How many more years would it have taken them to remove that dingy little drinking room of which the honourable member for Kennedy spoke? How many more years would we have waited for a new Parliament House under the previous Government? Whatever is wrong with this Parliament House or its facilities is the responsibility of those honourable members who sit opposite and criticise it today. Every one of them is guilty. The Ministers in the previous Government were so affluent that they didnot even worry about their own rank and file, let alone the staff or anybody else in this Parliament. Consequently when facilities and such matters are mentioned I am interested in them. 
The honourable member spoke about the Lobby' restaurant which provides a service for wealthy Liberals who can afford to go there instead of for the pensioners and others. The Minister who approved its construction was the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who was then the Minister for the Interior. It was a Country Party project built supposedly for pensioners and now the elite sit there and swap stories and that kind of thing. I do not mind the honourable member for Kennedy offering criticisms, but I think that I am entitled to put the case for this side of the Parliament. If honourable members opposite will persist in wasting the time of the Parliament they cannot complain if the Government has to take action in accordance with the Standing Orders to see that its legislation goes through. Frivolous matters are raised for discussion in this place. Only yesterday in this Parliament there was a debate on social services. It was an important debate, no doubt, but everybody in the Parliament was in agree ment with it and I would say that had this Parliament been properly run and the Opposition been properly organised in respect of it that debate might have been completed in a much shorter time than was actually taken. 
I mention those matters so that honourable members opposite will know that this Government is not fully responsible for what has been happening here. I was a bit upset in a roundabout way that the honourable member for Wannon made a slighting reference to my desire to move the gag and things of that nature. I thought he spoke a lot of sense tonight, for once, when he dealt with the committee system and many of the suggestions he made might well receive the consideration of this Parliament. I thought that if he could introduce through the committee system or initiate some moves in his own Party in cooperation with the work of the Joint Committee that would, as I said, bring to this Parliament a more easy way to deal with debates. Many qf the things that we have to do now to get legislation through would not be necessary. I would suggest that he might take to the Committee that has been set up some of the suggestions he made tonight. We may have no need to curtail debate on legislation if the Committee system is working effectively. Only when we get a system which will streamline the procedures of this Parliament will it be possible to avoid these matters that I mentioned a few moments ago. 
There are a couple of other matters I wish to mention. The honourable member for Maranoa, as I said, has been asleep for 20 years, but he discovered that there are 27 Ministers in this chamber. I wonder where the other 6 are; they must be hiding somewhere. There are only 21 here. There are half a dozen across the hall in the other place. So he is not only wrong in the number of Ministers; his arithmetic is right out. He said tonight that there are 27- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member for Maranoa was heard in silence. I ask him to extend the same courtesy to the Minister. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  I hope you will excuse him. It must be awful at his age to be told that he cannot count. He said that there are 39 backbenchers and 27 Ministers in this House. He is quite incorrect. 
There are only 21 Ministers in this place. He was only half a dozen out. That is 25 per cent, but that is reasonable for the Country Party. The honourable member has become a real democrat. He said that the Opposition members should be allowed to ask 3 questions for every two from the Government side. We were lucky to be able to ask one question for every hundred from the Government side when we were in Opposition. Honourable members know that we would wait for 3 weeks to ask a question. The honourable member suggesting the reforms is one of those great democrats who got 10 per cent of the Australian votes at the last couple of elections. The situation is that they are finding out only now the great difficulties this magnificent Government laboured under when in Opposition under their Administration. With limited questions, limited opportunities and the gag and other measures used ruthlessly against us, we won our way to the treasury bench. 
Consequently, we know the problems the Opposition has. These complaints, whilst they might have been well-intentioned, are ones that are the Opposition's own responsibility. There is criticism of how this House is run. Let me tell honourable members this: It has never sat after 11 o'clock at night, except on one occasion, but that was because of obstruction from the Opposition. It was forced to sit on by obstruction from the Opposition which became nearly demented on postal charges and threw caution to the wind and disrupted the proceedings of this Parliament. Let me tell honourable members this also: When we sought to extend the hours of sitting of this Parliament in order to give every honourable member the opportunity to speak, every member of the Opposition side voted against it. So when they talk about wanting rights for private members they should remember this: A few days ago on Grievance Day when private members have their only chance once a month to put their views, the Opposition put up frivolous motions and took that time away from the private members. And that is humbug. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  said: T do not want to speak on private members' day.' Thank God for that. Nobody wanted to hear him. The situation is that the Opposition took away the opportunity for private members to speak on that day. 
I point out to honourable members opposite that the Government has allowed an adjourn ment debate to be held every night. In addition, a grievance day debate has been held whenever it has fallen due. Issues raised by private members have been brought to a vote. And how the members opposite hated voting on issues such as abortion. The previous Government put all those issues to the bottom of the notice paper all the time and never let them be debated. Not once during Budget sessions did it allow a debate on a private members' business to be brought forward or the grievance day debate to be held; yet a grievance day debate has been held on every scheduled day since this Parliament has been in session. In addition, the Parliament does not sit into the early hours of the morning. Fancy having to look at the collection opposite in the middle of the night. It looks awful enough in the daytime. But that was the situation day after day under the previous Government. Many a night my colleagues and 1 walked home at 2, 3, 4 and sometimes as late as 7 o'clock in the morning. Legislation by exhaustion was the order of the day. There has been 1 1 o'clock closing under the present Government. In addition there have been more hours of sitting. Even when the Budget was being debated there have been debates on the matters. I have mentioned. In addition, the facilities of members of Parliament have been improved in order that they might be able to carry on their work more effectively. Consequently, I suggest to honourable members opposite that they should be much more charitable with respect to these things instead of criticising the way in which the House is run. A former Prime Minister is on record as saying in this House that an Opposition which behaves stupidly enough forces the Government to move the gag. That is precisely the case in every Parliament. I summarise that aspect in this way: Legislation originating from this side of the Parliament must go through the Parliament. The Opposition has its rights, as does the Government. Let us fight on equal terms in respect of that. But it should be kept in mind at all times that there is an old axiom: You cannot win without the numbers. 
On the general matter of the Parliament itself let me briefly say that I am one of those who believe that there will have to be great changes made in the parliamentary system. I would suggest to the Opposition, after having spent 24 years on the other side of the chamber, that if it wants to have effective debates on the issues that matter it should have a look at the program before it and decide to debate the issues that really matter. In that way the time available could be spread over the debates on issues that are of importance. If members of the Opposition persist in debating every tinpot issue at great length they must inevitably suffer when the more important debates take place. That is bad for the Parliament, bad for the members of the Opposition and bad for discussion. 
Whenever the Government asks the Opposition for a list of the members who wish to speak on a particular Bill the Opposition puts on the list the name of almost every honourable member on its side of the chamber and then says: 'We wanted to have 40 speakers on this matter but the Government allowed us to have only 2, 3 or 4'. What you have to do - this is what is done in the parliaments of Great Britain and other places - is to make an arrangement between the various parties on what are important Bills and what will be discussed. In co-operation with the Committee system one then gets effective debate. 
One of the problems with this Parliament is that the general procedures with regard to debate and discussion are still the same as they were at the time I 'became a member of Parliament and even before then. I think that changes must be made in this respect. I would say to the honourable members opposite that what they should do in respect to this matter is to decide what measures they want to debate. I do not doubt that agreement could be reached on those measures. Does any honourable member opposite say that every member of this Parliament should be allowed to speak on every Bill and on every issue and to ask questions during every question time of every day? That is just a fantasy. One just cannot do those things. 
It is not a fantasy? 
The honourable member for Boothby says that every member on the Opposition side of the Parliament and on the Government side of the Parliament should be allowed to talk in every debate. 
The honourable member for Boothby is one of the members who voted against sitting an extra hour a day and now he wants to sit for the whole of the year. Is he not being inconsistent? The honourable member for Boothby voted against the extension of the sitting hours by one or two hours a day. He also voted against allowing a minute extra to honourable members to enable them to get to the chamber in time when a vote is being taken. Honourable members opposite now say they want extended hours. I will stack up the record of this Government in regard to the proceedings of the Parliament and the conduct of the Parliament against the record of any of those governments that have been in office in the last 24 years. Honourable members opposite should read the election results of last year. If they were to do so they would see that those honourable members who sit on the side of the Parliament on which I sit are the ones who are sitting on the winning side. What honourable members opposite are trying to do on their side of the Parliament is run the business of the Parliament when they have not the responsibility for doing so. That is the Government's responsibility. 
I summarise the whole situation in this way: If the Opposition were to put reasonable propositions forward that were in conformity with the hours available for the debating of its propositions they always would be considered. But I have found it well nigh impossible to negotiate with the Opposition because its members evidently seek to speak on everything and anything at all times. That just cannot happen. Consequently, whilst I appreciate many of the constructive suggestions that have been made tonight, I must point out that the Government's record in the conduct of this Parliament needs no defence. 
The honourable member for Farrer, a former Minister, said that the Government has no record. For 24 years he was a member of the previous Government 'He ran out of gags in the end. He applied them because he did not want anybody to criticise his Department, knowing the incompetence associated with his administration. 
The honourable member said that he did not use the guillotine. At one time the Parliament passed 20 Bills in .17 hours. He was one of the members of Parliament recorded in Hansard as having voted for using the guillotine. Every honourable member on that side who survived the last Parliament is one of those guilty men. I do not worry about some of these things because I know that even if I were to move the guillotine every day for a week and the gag 100 times in the next 14 days I would not be within coo-ee of the previous Administration. 
Those are things that honourable members ought to consider. The Government has no desire to rush legislation through the Parliament. It would like to have effective debate. But if honourable members opposite persist - and it is their right, of course, to use the Standing Orders to restrict the business of the Parliament - they cannot blame anyone but themselves if the Government has to take action to ensure that its legislation goes through the Parliament. I have made just a few observations. I assure honourable members opposite that the matters they have raised will be taken to the right source for consideration. To my colleague the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  I say that the matters he mentioned with regard to staff and the various matters associated with the Parliament are the responsibility of  Mr Speaker  and  Mr President.  No doubt his remarks will be conveyed to them, but they are outside my scope and the scope of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The honourable member claims to have been misrepresented? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! What is the honourable member's point of order? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I request the honourable member to state his point of order and not to abuse the forms of the House. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Boothby will please come to his point of order or I will be forced to take action. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member is making the point that he has been misrepresented; yet he is using the royal 'we'. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member is going outside the terms of a point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will please resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I call the honourable member for Cook. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  I claim to have been misrepresented. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  said that members of the Opposition put their names down on the list of speakers because they want to speak. He knows, of course, that that is not correct. He knows that many of those honourable members whose names are put down on the list do not want to speak but their names are put down so that if a debate is curtailed the Opposition can say that it has been cut off. In addition, on many occasions when a debate which is to go for only about half an hour is to take place one would find 10 or 15 members of the Opposition had put their names on the list of speakers. I am too long in the tooth to be caught by that kind of trick. I know precisely the reason. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The Minister has made his point of order. 
What is more, I will give honourable members opposite a look at the list now. 
No one regrets more than I do intemperate language being used in this Parliament. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
as they are associated measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply - There is little need for me to speak at great length in replying in this debate, for 2 reasons. One is that we have heard again the time worn arguments that were brought out when the Bill was first introduced. The second is that the devastating speech by the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has left the Country Party in particular with not a feather to fly with. 
I would like to say a few words to the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  first. He said that there is no need for this legislation. He seems to forget that the people of the Territories pay taxes in accordance with the law. This is what I said in my second reading speech when this Bill was introduced a few months ago: 
They are subject to the same laws but are not represented in the Senate where they are surely entitled to have presented to that House the views of the residents of their respective Territories. 
As the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for the Northern 
Territory said a little time ago, events have been decided which affect particularly the people in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory but on which they have no voice whatever. Then we had the humbug of the Country Party voting one way in this House and another way in the other House under the pretence that it seeks to give some form of representation to the people of these Territories. If honourable members opposite vote against these proposals they are voting against the principle that every Australian is entitled to a say in his Government and a vote in this and the other place. The Labor Party has said that while ever there is a bicameral system all the States of Australia and the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory should be represented in the Senate. 
Honourable members opposite asked how we decided on 2 senators for each Territory. It is interesting that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  said that this is too many. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  said it is not enough. The honourable member for the Northern Territory said that to him 2 senators for 31,000 voters is too many. What does the honourable member for Stirling suggest? Does he want 10 senators for the Northern Territory? Why does he not suggest that figure if that is the case? This is the type of argument that is a phoney one. I will tell the House why 2 senators are suggested. I thought that honourable members opposite would have been glad that it was only two seeing that we have been told that the Labor Party would win all the positions. Does anyone who knows me think that I would not have made the number 10 if I thought we would win the lot? Why would we stop at two? The fact of the matter is that we on this side put principle above political expedience. We are not like the Country Party which votes one way in this House and another way in the Senate. In again, on again, off again, Finnegan - that is the Country Party. In my second reading speech when this Bill was introduced the previous time this is the reason I gave why 2 senators are suggested: 
Two senators are suggested because it would be proper to have an even number representing the Territories. If only one senator alone represented a Territory, almost certainly the one party would be represented for long periods. It is possible that both senators would belong to the same party. 
According to the Opposition, would that not be dreadful. I went on: 
It would appear then to be more democratic to have an even number elected each time for each Territory thus following the pattern of the major parties providing that each would have a representative in the Senate. 
Does the Opposition disagree with that principle or does it think that its prospects are so gloomy that the Government will win both the proposed Senate positions in the Northern Territory and in the Australian Capital Territory? Does it think that this is possible and that is the purpose of this legislation? Honourable members opposite also ask why the proposed term of office for these senators is to be 3 years and not 6 years. I said in my second reading speech in introducing the Bill: 
The Government has adapted the method which was unanimously agreed to IS years ago by the Constitutional Review Committee, upon which all parties in the House were represented.  lt unanimously recommended this course for the Parliament. We are giving effect to resolutions passed by the all-party Constitutional Review Committee to which every member in the House at that time, including those on the other side of the Parliament, subscribed. I said: 
It was  recommended  by the Committee that the Constitution should be amended to provide that there should be an election for half the senators every time there is an election for the House of Representatives. The Committee believed that this would cut down the number of elections and so minimise the distraction of elections and the difference between the 2 Houses. The decision to bring the elections of Territory senators into line with those of the House of Representatives is in accordance with the Constitutional Review Committee's findings. Both senators will be elected every time there is a general election of the House of Representatives. So for the Territories there will be elections for both Houses of Parliament at the same time. 
That is a sound basis on which to base this legislation. It is true that there are constitutional problems in respect of these matter One honourable member raised the question of Norfolk Island. I think it was the honourable member for Petrie. This question was also raised in the other place with regard to Heard Island, and it was said that the penguins and somebody else would end up in the Senate if this legislation went through. As 1 said, when this Bill was originally introduced, some comments were made about the representation of other Australian Territories besides those mentioned in the Bill. The case of the mainland Territories, with which this Bill deals, is clearly different from that of the external Territories, many of which are uninhabited or sparsely populated and have little in common with each other. That red herring that the Opposition has drawn across the path of this legislation will not bear constitutional investigation. 
The honourable member for Petrie said that he would not have a bar of the legislation.  His  argument was not so much that the people pf the Territories were not entitled to representation but that the Labor Party would win both positions in each Territory. What a dreadful argument for a democrat to bring forward. Surely if the people want 2 Liberals, 2 Labor members or 2 Democratic Labor Party members and they vote that way they are entitled to have them. But this measure does not provide for that. It provides for proportional representation, which the honourable member knows makes it practically impossible for one party to win both positions. I was disturbed by the speech by the member for the Northern Territory. He threatened me that if I came to Alice Springs I would be done away with 5 miles outside the town, and only at night. I was surprised. He said that this measure is an example of opportunism by the Labor Party, but he is prepared to take advantage of it. He could not have got into the Country Party unless he was an opportunist. So that statement is correct. 
The idea of Senate representation for the Territories is not a new idea for the Labor Party. This is what we thought should be done when we were a long way from being the Government. In November 1968 and in August 1970 the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  introduced legislation to give effect to the proposals which we are endeavouring to pass through this House today. So it is not a whim that has come to us in Government, not a whim to keep us there, lt is a longestablished idea or principle of the Labor Party that this should be done. Consequently we are now giving expression from the place of power to principles that we have espoused for years in respect of representation for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory asked what would be done about giving the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory a vote at referendums on constitutional matters. The Labor Party's policy on this matter is as clear as the day. We believe that people in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory should be able to vote on referendums but I am not at all confident that when we introduce legislation into this Parliament to give effect to such a proposition, although the honourable member for the Northern Territory may vote with us, his 5 colleagues in the Senate will vote for it. I should like him to say, on behalf of the Country Party, that his Senate colleagues will support such a proposal, but he will not because he knows they will not support it. The Country Party has the phoney attitude of suggesting things for which they are never prepared to vote when the Labor Party brings the necessary legislation to the Parliament. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory has proved that he speaks only for himself.  His  colleagues in this House may vote with him but he has no more influence with the 5 Country Party senators than I have, although he is a member of the same Party.  His  attitude is to do one thing in the Parliament and another in the Northern Territory. He has been a member of this House since 1966. I admit that during the term of the previous Government not many days were devoted to private members' business but he could well have introduced a proposal to enable residents of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory to vote on referendums. However I cannot recall his ever having placed such a proposal on the notice paper. Members are judged by their actions and votes in this place, not on what they say. The only way to establish whether a member is a man of principle who supports the things he espouses is to see how he votes. Not once in the past 6 years has the honourable member for the Northern Territory introduced a proposal to give effect to what he suggested today. If this is such a bad Bill, as the honourable member for the Northern Territory suggested, why will he vote for it? It is dreadful to think that if it is just an opportunist Bill he will vote for it. Either it is a good Bill or it is a bad Bill. I will be interested to see what the honourable member does when the vote is taken. 
It is not necessary for me to detail what happened in the other place when similar legislation was introduced earlier this year. In his masterly speech, the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory, clearly outlined the position. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  is, I think, one of the most intelli gent members of the Country Party. Today, unlike the honourable member for the Northern Territory, he spoke against this measure. He was one member who did not vote with the Government on the last occasion when 17 members opposite voted with us. So let us look closely at the real lilywhite of the Country Party. The vote will be taken soon. I will be watching to see what the honourable member does. Today he spoke quite freely against this legislation. He could do so because, unlike the honourable member for the Northern Territory, he did not vote on the earlier occasion. I was almost frightened when the honourable member for Stirling spoke because he said that the Government was endeavouring to turn the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory into socialist enclaves with Australia the real victim. I have in my possession an extract from the 'Canberra Times' of 17 May 1973 headed 'Libs Want Two A.C.T. Senators' which states: 
The Australian Capital Territory Federal Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party may ask the Party's Senate wing to initiate moves to bring in legislation giving the Australian Capital Territory two representatives in the Senate. 
What a conversion to the idea of socialist enclaves that the Labor Party is alleged to be setting up. The article continued: 
The Federal Electorate Conference will also ask the Parliamentary Liberal Party to support any legislation providing for the two senators. 
At its meeting last night, the Conference carried a motion supporting the establishment of two Senate seats for the A.C.T., both to be elected at the same time. 
The  Chairman  of the Conference,  Dr Peter  Hughes, said today the legislation should be brought down as soon as possible. 
Is he a socialist? Is he one of these dreadful men who will destroy the Australian Capital Territory? I am sure  Dr Hughes  will be delighted to know that he is now a radical socialist undermining the future of the Australian Capital Territory. I think that the Canberra Branch must be a security risk for thinking so differently from the honourable member for Stirling. This article points out clearly that the attitude of members opposite today is merely an opportunist trick. The honourable member for Stirling said that the proposed senators will be second-class senators. How did he work that out, with his great legal brain? I do not want to go into the morass that makes up a lawyer's mind - with due respect to the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory - but as an ordinary layman 
I can read and understand clauses in a Bill. Clause 5 of this Bill states: 
A senator for a Territory has all the powers, immunities and privileges of a senator for a State and - 
shall be included in the whole number of the senators for the purpose of ascertaining the number of senators necessary to constitute a meeting of the Senate for the exercise of its powers and, if present, shall be counted for the purpose of determining whether the necessary number of senators are present; and 
shall have a vote on all questions arising in the Senate. 
The provisions contained in sections 16, 19 and 20 and sections 42 to 48 (inclusive) of the Constitution, to the extent, if any, to which they do not apply, by virtue of the Constitution in relation to a senator for a Territory apply, by force of this Act, in relation to such a senator in the same way as they apply in relation to other senators. 
Do honourable members want anything clearer than that? This clause gives such senators all the rights of and everything associated with being a member of the Senate. 
I will read out clause 6. It states: 
The term of service of a senator for a Territory commences on the day of his election and expires at the close of the day next preceding the polling day for the general election of members of the House of Representatives next following his election. 
This is in accordance with the findings of the Constitutional Review Committee. In due course I hope that such provision will apply to all senators. If members opposite are in any doubt about this provision I point out that the Canberra Branch of the Liberal Party at its Federal Electorate Conference supported it. Despite the legal terms used by the honourable member for Stirling, Territory senators, when elected, will have equal rights with other senators in voting and in respect of everything else associated with Senate membership. What is more a Territory senator will get the same salary as other senators and in every way will be one with them. 
It was not so long ago that there was some enthusiasm for this legislationfrom some sources opposite, but it is marvellous how events change. Consequently when the Labor Party, as the Government, introduces a reform for which most honourable members have clamoured - we know that the vast majority of democrats wants representation for the Territories - we find it opposed by members opposite. I have no doubt that this is just a political manoeuvre. There is no sincerity or substance in the arguments put forward by members of the Opposition. If members oppos ite really believed in democratic representation for these  2  Territories they would support this legislation. Frankly, if their votes are bad in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, they should be because members opposite are denying to the people of these Territories the same rights as apply to every Australian in every part of Australia outside of the 2 Territories. 
I commend the Bill to the Parliament. I will be interested to see not so much what the Country Party does in this House - after all it has to save one of its colleagues from some embarrassment - but what Country Party senators do. I will be watching to see whether they vote the way they did before and discard their colleague in this place like a waif and leave him like a shag on a rock. He says he is fair dinkum, but as we know, he is putting up phoney propositions in this place. The machinations of the Liberal Party are such that one does not know what it will do. I hope it will see the light with respect to this legislation, pass it and give effect to a democratic move designed to give to these 2 Territories the increased representation to which they are entitled. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills- -at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Opposition has become very excited. It must be a delayed Parramatta reaction. Earlier tonight the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  gave notice in these terms: 
That at the next sitting I will move that this House censures the Minister for Minerals and Energy for his gross abuse of power in relation to the New South Wales power strike. 
That notice was given for the next day of sitting and, in accordance with it, notice would have been taken, because that was all that was asked for in the motion. Consequently the Government has a right to say whether it takes notice yea or nay. The honourable member for Wannon then produced some document which I had not seen until a second ago and said: 'Can I table this?' I did not know what was in it. He had not shown it to me before he asked to table it. Quite rightly, as I do not trust any Liberals, I would not accept the document. 
As the honourable member knows, I am not the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I did not know the document. I had not seen it until a second ago when the Minister showed me what I presume to be the document, but I do not know yet whether that is it. The honourable member, with his long experience in a Ministry, might well have paid the courtesy at least of asking me to read the document before he sought to table it in his usual aristocratic dominating manner. 
I will get back to the motion. In the course of his remarks the honourable member said: 'I move: That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Wannon tabling a certain paper forthwith'. I still have no knowledge of what was in the paper. The honourable member is quite annoyed because he wants to table a document which nobody who was here at the table at the time - that was me - has seen. And when does he want to table it? 
Opposition members - Now. 
And when did he try to do this? In the middle of a debate on the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Bill and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill - the poorest section of the Australian community; the most suffering section. And the wealthiest man in the Parliament caring not a damn for them, interrupted this debate and then proceeded- (Opposition members interjecting) - 
I was pointing out that the Government thinks more of handicapped children and sheltered workshops than it does of the cheap political stunts of wealthy people opposite in this Parliament. We on this side will never be a party to putting aside the interests of those suffering people just to let our political opponents opposite get some cheap political capital out of it. They have had all day to move this motion. They have been here a week and they have not done anything. There has not been one of them in the House tonight for more than 5 minutes. The honourable member for Wannon wandered into the chamber at 10 minutes to 10 this evening and, in a dramatic gesture, he - this wealthy exponent of the rights of the individual, caring not a hang for the children in sheltered workshops and other institutions - wanted to table a particular document forthwith. 
Perhaps 1 should remind honourable members of the terms of the motion. It states: 
That so much of the Standing Orders he suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Wannon tabling a certain paper forthwith. 
I am now on the beam, am I not? The honourable member for Wannon moved that motion a few moments ago. When he sought to censure the Minister for Minerals and Energy and to move for the suspension of Standing Orders to enable him to table the document there was only about 25 minutes of today's sitting, which will be the last one for this week, remaining. I wonder what honourable members opposite would say if the Government were to accept their challenge and bring all of them back tomorrow? (Honourable members interjecting) - 
I did that once and the Liberal Party could muster only 35 votes in the first division. What chance would one have of getting honourable members opposite back tomorrow when they voted against sitting an extra hour a week? Honourable members opposite know that that is a phoney proposition. If this matter is so important the .Opposition should have moved for the suspension of Standing Orders this morning when the Minister for Minerals and Energy was under attack in this Parliament. That was the time to have followed up on the attack and to have moved for the suspension of Standing Orders to enable the tabling of a paper. The Minister could have been given adequate time to prepare his reply to the Opposition's place, if it had one. No self-respecting government could in the last 20 minutes of a sitting on the last sitting day of a week accept a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders to enable a Minister to be censured, particularly when the Opposition has had all day to move such a motion and every opportunity to do so. The fact that the members of the Opposition are all slow thinkers and take all day to work out things does not excuse their lateness in bringing forward such a proposition. In seeking the suspension of Standing Orders tonight for this purpose the Opposition would know full well that its methods would not be acceptable to the Government. The Opposition is trying to have this matter hanging over the Minister's head for a couple of weeks. 
As sure as I am here I know that the Opposition could not get a quorum tomorrow. Honourable members opposite are nervous wrecks because they think I might accept their challenge if they are not careful. The Opposition has had all day to move this motion. Perhaps some honourable member opposite can explain why it was not moved this morning. Perhaps some honourable member opposite can explain why the Opposition did not bring the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders forward at a time when all might have had the opportunity to participate in a debate on it. Why has the Opposition waited until this very late moment before coming forward with anything in respect to this matter? As I said earlier I did not know - I do not know yet - what is in the document the honourable member for Wannon wants to table. I was never shown it. I wonder whether he will let me have it now. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! No motion can be moved while a motion to suspend the Standing Orders is before the Chair. 
I will conclude my remarks by saying that the motion to suspend the Standing Orders and the notice of motion of censure might well have been put forward at a much earlier hour this day. As I mentioned a moment ago, it is too much to expect the Government to accept a motion of this nature in thelast 20 minutes of the sitting, particularly if the motion is in relation to the tabling of a paper which the person seeking to table it would not let me read before he asked whether he could table it. I do not know whether the document is authentic. I do not know whether the honourable member for Wannon has manufactured it. 
I have not seen the document. I have seen one document, but I do not know whether it is the right one. 
I cannot read a document from 30 yards away. I am not a searchlight. The situation is that the Opposition has had all day in which to move this motion but preferred instead to have a great battle during the last few minutes of the sitting. That is not good enough. 
We on this side of the House have nothing to be frightened about. All we want is a bit of responsibility to be shown by the Opposition. I have never seen such a frustrated collection of people in all my life. One would have thought that-- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister will resume his seat. The time allotted for the debate has expired. The question is 'That the motion be agreed to'. Those of that opinion say aye; to the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. It has been said by members on the other side of the House that I gagged one of our own Ministers in the debate for the suspension of Standing Orders.  Mr Speaker,  as you well know, the time allowed for debate on the suspension of Standing Orders is 25 minutes and in accordance with the procedure, the  Deputy Speaker  at the time put the question. Consequently there was no opportunity for any one to speak but me. Had I sat down the call would have gone to the Opposition and consequently, knowing that Opposition members would have taken the call there was no alternative but to let the time expire as it did. It is not my fault; it is the fault of the Standing Orders. 
 Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That the Leader of the Country Party be suspended from the service of the House. 
That the Leader of the Country. Party be suspended from the service of the House. 
Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. 
Opposition members - No. 
Question put: 
That the Leader of the Country Party be suspended from the service of the House. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Air Accidents (Australian Government Liability) Bill and the Superannuation Bill (No. 3) as they are associated measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  revealed the jealousy and the hatred that honourable members opposite have for the greatest political leader this country has had for generations. As I listened to him speak a few moments ago, wailing about what is wrong with the economy and what is wrong with the administration and what is wrong with the nation, I could not help but think what a tremendous improvement this Government has made in a few months on anything those on the other side did in 23 years of Government. 
I refer to the last point mentioned by the honourable member in relation to man hours lost by industrial trouble. How many man hours did those 120,000 unemployed under the Liberal Government lose? How many man hours were lost because the honourable member and his vicious policies sought to make men so economically dependent that they would take any kind of employment? The previous Government wanted a pool of unemployment to lose man hours. Now, when this pool has been removed, the Opposition says that this Government has not done anything. 
The honourable member complained about Ministers' advisers. If any government needed advisers it was the one that he supported. He is out of office because he not only had no advice but he also would not take the advice that some people offered to give. This is not a new development. The honourable member knows full well that right at the top level and other places this Government seeks advice from those who have the ability to advise on the great problems confronting the nation. 
I was hoping to be able to give honourable members of this Parliament additional staff, but how can I do it for honourable members on the other side when they are complaining about the growth of the Public Service? Would it not be dreadful? I would be criticised by each of them. As I gave them a new research officer or a new secretary they would say: 'My goodness, look how the Public Service is growing'. I did not hear the Opposition complaining about the mammoth staff of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  or the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  or how they cry and wail every week to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to give them additional staff. They say: 'We do not have many members ourselves. We want as many as we can get to help us.' That is the situation. I will stack up the staff of any office bearer on the Opposition side against the staff of any Minister and I will find that the Opposition has twice as many as it ever gave to any member on this side. 
Whilst honourable members opposite are clamouring about ministerial staffs they should turn their eyes on to their own leaders, including the Country Party leaders, and they will see not only the staff that they have but also what they are continually demanding from this Government. So why do we hear all this humbug about what the Labor Party is doing in these matters? Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and his  Deputy  are always clamouring for additional staff. If one is talking to the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party he will say that he has a top staff and wants more. The same applies to the Leader of the Opposition. I think that the big fault with them is that they have good staffs but they will not take the advice that is offered. That is precisely what I think the situation is. The honourable member for Isaacs dealt with schools any other items. Does he suggest that the wealthier schools such as Timber Top and Melbourne Grammar should receive the same money as the schools in the poor, depressed areas receive? As I stand here I notice the wealthy individuals who sit opposite. They have never seen a poor man because they do not mix in those circles. They have never seen kids who wanted an education but could not receive it because the former Government preferred to give the money to Timber Top, Melbourne Grammar and all the other wealthier schools instead of to the ones that really needed it. This Government is spreading the wealth of the nation among those who richly deserve to share in it. 
Let us look at the 27-man Cabinet and the 93-man Caucus. Do honourable members remember the first and second elevens of the former Government? There were 12 in the first eleven and 12 or 13 in the second eleven, and half of them could not trust each other. They all came from one or two States. The first eleven never consulted anybody. They just walked into the Parliament and said: "This is the policy. Take it or leave it'. The Labor Party is a democratic party. Every member of the Ministry is a member of the Cabinet. There are no first and second elevens on this side of the chamber. They are all equal and they all receive the same pay. Over there I can see the third eleven - the Country Party. Many of them could not get in anywhere. I see one member sitting there looking at me. He has been gazing from that side of the chamber for years and years. Those honourable members have never shifted from that side. When I looked at the first and second elevens I thought how crook these members must be because they could not get into either. 
The 27-man Ministry decides on matters in accordance with the policy of this Party. Then in accordance with all the democratic practices of government the Ministers submit their proposals and participate in the deliberations. The Labor Party gives the right to every member who is elected to come to this Parliament and who has to. answer to his constituents to have a say in what should or should not be done. Of course, a Cabinet is not infallible. We do not blindly follow anyone who puts up proposals. Members of the Caucus carefuly examine matters that are submitted to them and, as is their right, they have the opportunity to vote. The majority rule prevails. Of course, if honourable members opposite want a system whereby a discarded leader such as Billy McMahon comes in and stands over them telling them what they have to do, good luck to them. But that is not the Labor Party's approach to these problems. 
Honourable members opposite referred to the Labor Party sometimes rejecting Cabinet proposals. Would they expect the Cabinet to be right every time? Admittedly, 99 times out of 100 it is right on the ball but occasionally it might miss one. At least these things are done and although somebody may be rebuffed temporarily, that is the democracy of a parliament. I prefer to tell my constituents, as honourable members on this side do, that our Party is one in which every member has an equal say in the policy that is presented to this Parliament. They have a right to adjudicate on decisions that are made and to express their opinions. Consequently decisions are made that have the support of the Party as such. Let me mention to honourable members opposite that there is nothing wrong with the system of Cabinet that we have here. In case they might not think so, let me inform them that in the Progressive Conservative Party in Canada every member of the Ministry is in the Cabinet, and it is about as big as ours. In other parts of the world the same thing applies. Those who follow Whitehall, the House of Commons, the late  Sir Winston  Churchill and  Mr Heath  will have their first and second eleven because that is what those who wear the old school tie want. They love to look up to somebody. That is the system the Country Party tries to foist on the Australian people. It is so different on this side of the Parliament. 
I just mention these matters in answer to the honourable member. I suggest that the Country Party should consider the Prime Minister's performance and compare what was done in the years it was in office with what has been done in the months that we have been in office. In the 9 months that this Government has been in office its record in social welfare, administration, world affairs and presentation to the Australian people stands unequalled in the annals of this country. Look at honourable members opposite now. 1 have said it before and I say it again. They are like roaring lions in opposition but in government they were quiet as rabbits suffering from myxomatosis. We never got a word out of them when they were in government but since they have been in opposition they have discovered all that is wrong with the nation and all that can be done. Do you know what annoys them? They cannot do anything about it 'because we have a government that will remedy the state of affairs that they created and bring real justice, equality and social and economic security to the people of this country. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  has become the great reformer. He wants extra standing orders. He wants the whole Parliament reformed. On one occasion he wanted the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to pay SI 0,000 to put a telephone on to some cocky's place in the country. As the Postmaster-General said, it would have been cheaper to buy the farm. This is the kind of case he puts up to a government. Is it any wonder that members of the Country Party are in opposition? I ask the people to judge. Are they not where they ought to be? Why would they be on this side? There is not a thought between them. All they can do is rail and rant about the democracy of the Australian Labor Party, about the prestige of the Prime Minister and about our methods. 
Not one member of the Country Party has a vote for anybody in his own party. They are told what to do, and most of the people who tell the Country Party what to do live in Pitt Street, Sydney, or at Darling Point and such places. Members of the Country Party are terribly frustrated because in this Parliament they act as well paid puppets for those people who put them here under the guise of being Country Party supporters. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The Minister will relate his comments to the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department and Cabinet and the estimates for the Department of the Special Minister of State, whom he represents here. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  I may have deviated slightly, but you will agree that what I said was exceedingly interesting. I finish on this note: I am sick and tired of hearing honourable members opposite talking about all that this Government has not done. If I had another 25 minutes to speak I would not be able to tell them a quarter of what the Government has achieved in the months it has been in office. I finish on that note because I think it is important that we should again give those opposite the chance to wail and moan if they will. But let them remember this: This Government will continue along the course it is following, which the great majority of Australian people endorse. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) This will be a matter for the Members of the Grants Commission to inquire into and report upon in the course of their examination of applications by local governing bodies for financial assistance. 
and (4) The Australian Labor Party has long advocated that local governing bodies have access to the Grants Commission. This has now been accomplished with the provision of legislative authority for the Commission to enquire into and report upon applications by local governing bodies for financial assistance from the Australian Government. 
The practice of publishing contributions made to political parties that the honourable member has mentioned is common in a number of countries throughout the world. It is followed in the United States and it is about to be followed in Canada. In a recent visit overseas I saw that this commendable practice was well adopted by those countries. I think all people in this country want to avoid any Watergates, and therefore there is a great case to be made for the names of the donors to political parties to be made public. That particularly applies in regard to multi-national companies, which seek to defeat duly elected governments by contributing funds to their opponents in Australia and other places. I believe also the sources of the $lm fund that the Liberal Party is collecting from these kinds of organisations to defeat this Government should be made known. The Australian Labor Party has under consideration a number of electoral reforms. Very high on the list is consideration of the proposal that we do what the honourable member for Robertson has said and that is to make it necessary by legislation for donors and the amounts they contribute to political parties to be made known. I am hopeful that in the immediate future we may be able to bring down in this Parliament that kind of legislation. Then we will see where the Liberal Party stands with respect to its anonymous donors who seek to defeat this Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No special provision exists to enable disabled employees and officers of the Public Service to obtain parking facilities near the office in which they are employed. Any request received from an officer through his employing Department is considered sympathetically having regard to the particular circumstances of each case and where such request is reasonable, it will be satisfied if at all practicable. 
This matter is currently under review by my Department. In the meantime my Department will continue to deal with these cases most sympathetically on an ad hoc basis. 
I wish to inform the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  today are attending a meeting with the State Premiers. Consequently they will not be present in the chamber until, later today. The Prime Minister had intended that this meeting with the Premiers be held tomorrow, which is a non-sitting day, but unfortunately not all Premiers were able to come to Canberra tomorrow and so the meeting for some very important discussions on Loan Council matters arising from the Constitutional Convention of 5 weeks ago has had to be put forward to today. 
I would say that it is possible that money is being provided to certain people and poltical parties in Australia to carry out a campaign for certain vested interests, some of which are multi-national corporations. I am advised, for instance, that there is a foreign finance minerals lobby operating in Australia. This, combined with the sustained questioning of and sustained attacks upon the Minister for Minerals and Energy, gives some substance to the point of view involved in the question. I am also disturbed by the recent revelation by the Minister for Immigration that a sum of $lm has been donated to the Liberal and Country Parties by foreign interests with a view to defeating the popularly elected Government. Further reports indicate that Liberal campaign funds are overflowing because foreign and local interests are providing funds to ensure that the Government is defeated. The events at Watergate and the recent resignation of the Vice-President of the United States indicate the seriousness of matters of this kind. 
The honourable gentleman asked whether I will consider appointing a royal commission or take some other suitable action. The statements in the question require very serious consideration as there would appear from the events in this Parliament in recent times to be substance to the thought that there could be another Watergate in Australia. The Government is considering appropriate action legislatively and the question of a royal commission also will receive consideration because we do not believe that any political party in this country should receive foreign funds without the source of those funds being revealed. 
Pursuant to section 27 of the National Library Act 1960-1967, I present the twelfth annual report of the Council of the National Library of Australia for the year ended 30 June 1973 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 Mr Speaker,  I ask for leave to make a brief statement in answer to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
The procedure mentioned is by no means unprecedented. 
If I checked the record I probably would find a couple of dozen instances in the time of the Government in which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  was a Minister. Furthermore I would say that there will be ample time to debate this statement in this Parliament during the debate on the Estimates. The Estimates debate would provide full and adequate time. That is the only assurance I will give in respect of the tabling of this document. If honourable members wish to use their time in the debate on the Estimates to speak about this important matter of immigration there is adequate time for discussion. I remind the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that no matter what the future might hold, as yet we are the Government, so the time allotted to debate matters is something which we on this side of the Parliament will decide. He has nominated next week but we may nominate some other time. We have no desire to avoid discussion in any way but it is a full and lengthy statement. It could receive adequate discussion in the course of the debate on the Estimates. I suggest that that should be done. Of course, if honourable members opposite do not want the statement incorporated in Hansard that is their business. I think that alot of second reading speeches and documents should be incorporated in Hansard instead of being read, even those presented from time to time by Opposition spokesmen. That applies particularly when, as in this case, the document has been given to the Opposition which knows all that it contains. In those circumstances there should be no objection to the incorporation of this statement in Hansard. 
No. 
Malcolm Fraser) entered the House. His intention was to read a brief statement from a document and then, if leave were granted, to incorporate the rest in Hansard. That is the request of the Minister. The decision just made by the Leader of the House has nothing to do with the Chair. 
Statement on immigration by the Honourable A. J. Grassby, 11 October 1973. 
 Yes, it is due to an error mainly which was not made in any purposeful way. As recorded in Hansard of 27 September 1973 on pages 1639, 1640 and 1641 I made a personal explanation concerning the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. In the course of that speech I was given permission to incorporate in Hansard certain resolutions that were passed at the conference. When the Hansard staff asked me for the incorporation I handed over my files and inadvertently - I suppose I would be as much to blame as anybody for not indicating clearly the documents involved - some resolutions were incorporated that did not refer to my speech. The first of these was on page 1641 and is headed 'Nineteenth Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference, Australian Constitutional Proposals'. I seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
I then sought leave to incorporate another document. Section 1 of that document was incorporated but it did not apply to my explanation. I seek leave to incorporate section 1 of the second part in Hansard. 
 A few minutes after 10 this evening- between 10.5 and 10.10  -  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  appeared in the chamber and moved that progress be reported. I presume he intended then to raise the matter to which he has just spoken. As the Standing Orders provide that a matter of privilege may be raised at any time, I saw no reason why the debate which was about to conclude should be interrupted and the business of the House delayed. The Leader of the Opposition had no more right than any other member to intervene in the debate as he knew that full opportunity would be given to him later. As a matter of fact, judging by the time it took him to deliver the speech that he has just made, when he first rose to speak he would not have been able to conclude his speech before the point was reached when the question that the House should adjourn would be proposed. In consequence, there was no purpose whatever in seeking to report progress when he did as his subsequent speech would have finished in mid-air. I suggest therefore that he should not say that I endeavoured to prevent him from speaking. I presume that the only reason why he wanted to speak at the earlier time was that at that stage the proceedings of the Parliament were being broadcast. That is no reason why ordinary practice should be departed from and the debate then in progress should not continue. The Leader of the Opposition has his rights under the Standing Orders. He has exercised them. If he were to read the Standing Orders more carefully and not try to play to the gallery, he would get into a lot less trouble. 
I am advised that lot 2, section 5, No. 10 Mugga Way, Red Hill, was sold on 19 April 1973 to John McEwen House Pty Ltd at a price of $87,000, and not $187,000. It was purchased from  Sir Alec  Downer, the former High Commissioner to the United Kingdom. I have no details as to the reason advanced for the purchase of this property, but it is certainly a very luxurious residence. It may have been purchased as a VIP reception and accommodation centre for the entertainment of lobbyists representing foreign corporations and representatives of multi-national businesses. It would be a most appropriate place for the entertainment of prospective donors to party funds, particularly those from overseas. I am not aware whether this is the purpose for which it is to be used, but there could be some substance in the suggestion in view of the price, the name of the purchaser and the huge outlay of mysteriousCountry Party funds. 
by leave - I move: 
That the Committee of Privileges when considering the matter referred to it today have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
The committee when undertaking its new inquiry may wish to have the power granted by this motion and, in accordance with practice, the motion is proposed for the concurrence of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I am quite certain,  Sir, that  your ruling is correct. We were waiting for the debate to continue and nobody on that side rose to take it. The Leader of the Australian Country Party, instead of approaching me in the first place, came in on the bounce and on the hop, and said that the honourable member for Cowper did rise. He said that you did not see him,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and that you should have called him. And then later on in the course of discussion he said perhaps you did not see him; perhaps he did not rise. I am not influenced by death bed confessions. Consequently,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I do not ask you to resubmit it. 
The Opposition, which is saying that it is to be the next Government, ought to be awake and alert. If its members are asleep when these things come on that is their business. For mv part this debate now is in the Committee stages and instead of wasting the time of this House, use up the time available to you by debating it in Committee as you should.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I suggest that you stand by the decision which has been justly given and wrongly challenged by every honourable member opposite. It was a just one and a proper one and the Opposition can now debate this in Committee. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter raised by the honourable member for Evans 'is important. I anticipated that it might be raised and I have some information on it which I will give to the honourable member. For some years past parents and teachers campaigned vigorously for the Army drill hall site at Ashfield to be made available to provide extra much-needed space for the Ashfield Boys High School. The honourable member for Evans will recall that following his urgent representations to me earlier this year I made arrangements for the earliest possible occupation of the property by the school. It was because of the urgent need for expansion of the school facilities and because of the persistent requests made by parents and teachers that the Australian Government vacated the property and arranged to transfer it to the New South Wales Department of Education. The Government's decision to transfer the land was taken to provide additional educational facilities for the Ashfield Boys High School. It was not for the purpose of widening Liverpool Road. 
I have had referred to me a letter expressing the deep concern of the 1500 pupils of the Ashfield Boys High School who have been told that the State Liberal Government proposes to use most of the site for road widening. The New South Wales Teachers Federation has written to me about the dismay caused by news of a Department of Main Roads proposal to take a substantial strip of land from this small site in order to widen Liverpool Road. The decision to transfer it to the State education authorities was made by the Australian Government in good faith on the understanding that it would be used for purposes of the school. The decision was taken in the light of strong representations made by the parents and teachers, and by the honourable member for Evans in his excellent representation of that electorate as well as in the belief that the State educaion authorities really wished to provide much; needed relief to the cramped school conditions. I find it most difficult to believe now that the State Government would use this land in any way which would frustrate these good intentions unless, of course, the Askin LiberalCountry Party Government is more concerned about expressways and the widening of roads than about improving school facilities in New South Wales. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The situation with reference to the question asked of me and about which the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has now made a personal explanation, is this: The drill hall was transferred officially in the time after this Government came to office. But the question at issue, as the honourable member for Kennedy knows full well, is that it was transferred for the purpose of providing additional facilities for the Ashfield High School. The Liberal PartyCountry Party Government in New South Wales had used it for road widening. The point I was making, amongst others, was that it was not given to widen roads; the drill hall was provided in order to increase the facilities of the school. Consequently, it was transferred in good faith by this Government, and no doubt with the same intention as that of the honourable member for Kennedy. In my reply I was just placing on record my complete dissatisfaction with the attitude taken by the New South Wales State Government and its misuse of the land which was transferred with the approval of the honourable member for Kennedy and myself, for the purposes mentioned earlier. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate on this Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill 1973 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each Bill at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 I suppose we have heard some strange speeches in this Parliament but rarely have we heard one in which a member of the Australian Country Party said that people running these broadcasting stations were not in business for profit. This statement comes from one of the disciples of private enterprise who say that they must make a profit and are entitled to make it. Yet tonight the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  has asked this Parliament to believe that one of the commercial broadcasting stations affected by this legislation, by a very minimal amount, went into business for the good of the community. I say to the honourable member for Maranoa that that is a lot of rot. I have never heard anything so silly in my life. If that is the case it is a funny thing that no licence has ever been surrendered. No station has ever given its licence away. 
Does the honourable member seriously suggest to this Parliament that those stations that support the Country Party in season and out stupidly and unobjectively, are not in the game for profit? Of course they are. Amongst other things, they are in business to destroy the Australian Labor Party. This is just a fantasy. Fancy these commercial broadcasting stations not being in business for profit. I wonder whether  Sir Frank  Packer has ever heard of the honourable member. I wonder whether  Sir Frank  Packer is 'in the business for fun and does not want to make a profit. Does the honourable member for Maranoa seriously suggest that? Does he suggest that all these companies throughout the country districts that own the chains of broadcasing stations are not in business for profit? Does he really think they are there to make the people of Orange, Hughenden or somewhere else happy? 
That is precisely what you said. The honourable member for Maranoa tells us that these companies are in it for the good of the community, that they are there not to make a profit but entirely to spread goodwill and harmony right throughout the length and breadth of the country districts. And every so often they have to say in the course of spreading that harmony 'Vote No. 1 Country Party'. That was the only reason that the honourable member for Maranoa rose to speak tonight. It was not because these stations were such goodwill organisations but that in season and out they not only make a profit but also advocate voting for the Country Party. 
The Bill we are discussing proposes a miserable increase in fees paid by the broadcasting stations. As far as we are concerned, they amount to next to nothing. From memory it will amount to about $60,000 a year. The significant part about this- 
The interesting part of this debate is that not one member of the Liberal Party has spoken; for once, they have dis played remarkable intelligence because they know that these companies are not in it for fun. They are in it for profit and all that goes with it. It is years since any increase has been made. There has been no increase since 1964. What would honourable members opposite say if their salaries had not gone up since 1964? They would be screaming to high heaven for an increase, and so they were, but when we introduced a measure to increase our salaries honourable members opposite would not vote for it because they are phoneys. 
Costs have risen since 1964. Does the honourable member for Maranoa suggest that these charges should remain stationary forever? Does he honestly suggest that there should never be any increase or that these stations should not bear some of the costs that are associated with increasing prices? When all is said and done, honourable members opposite are continually talking about inflation and the cost of living, but now they are opposed to a miserable increase by this amount. As a matter of fact, 1 wondered whether the Bill was worth bringing in, so little was the amount of increase proposed. It is such a small amount it is a wonder that the Bill was introduced. But, of course, I am horrified to think that we are doing something to the people who are in business for goodwill. I wish that David Jones Ltd thought the same way; we would get cheaper goods. I wish that big industry would take the same approach as the people referred to by the honourable member for Maranoa. I am a person who does not believe they are in it for the good of the country. I think they are in it for what they can get out of it, on a profit basis. If they are free enterprise organisations, that is the very basis of their being in business. 
Just because these broadcasting stations support the Country Party is no reason why they should not meet their obligations. Therefore I excuse members of the Country Party for defending these stations. Why would they not defend them? The stations support the Country Party in season and out. They give the Country Party free time on the radio and all that goes with the benefits that we will cover in the Bill we are bringing down. Now, in this Parliament, members of the Country Party act in effect as the paid agents of these stations, trying to stop an increase of a small amount. That is why I rose tonight. 
The honourable member who interjects reminds me of an artificially inseminated cow - there is something wonderful happening inside him and he does not know what it is all about. All I say to the honourable member is that he does not know what it is all about when he says that these stations are in business for fun, because they are not. They are in it for profit and they ought to pay their way. That is all that this Bill does and if honourable members opposite think we are going to believe the fantasy that they are in broadcasting for fun, they can pull their own legs but they will not pull ours. All we are asking them to do is to pay a proportion of the increased costs. The increases proposed by this Bill are reasonable. Honourable members can judge for themselves what the stations give to their Country Party when honourable members opposite kick up such a stink about $60,000. No wonder they are fighting to protect the oil and minerals industries and the others who are putting in millions more than that. I just mention these matters tonight in order that the Parliament will know that the arguments of honourable members opposite are phoney and should be dismissed. 

 Mr CORBETT (Maranoa) -  Mr Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 12 September be varied by postponing consideration of the proposed expenditures for the Department of Customs and Excise, the Department of Primary Industry, the Department of Overseas Trade and the Department of Secondary Industry. 
I thank you for your wise ruling,  Mr Speaker.  I am in charge of the matter referred to in a section of the question asked by the honourable member for Leichhardt. In regard to the taxation concessions mentioned by the Leader of the Country Party, I would say to the honourable member for Leichhardt that there is no merit at all in giving taxation concessions to foreign multi-national corporations which donate to political campaign funds, as they have no right to provide finance for the defeat of a popularly elected government in another country. Not only will no tax deductions be provided to foreign based multi-national corporations; they will also be prohibited from contributing to campaign funds unless they have a large Australian content. I have seen a report that huge donations totalling more than Sim- 
The Leader of the Opposition interjected and said we should bring the matter on for debate. The Government - and its decision has been endorsed by the Party today - has decided to bring down legislation to provide for public disclosures of all political funds and I assure the honourable member that he will get adequate time to consider the legislation and debate it and I hope that he will support it. 
I am disturbed at reports that over Sim of foreign money has gone into Liberal-Country Party funds. The Leader of the Opposition has said that he will take funds from anywhere, as long as there are no strings attached. But the strings are obvious in the Liberal Party's policy to sell Australia's national resources. It is true that the statement of the right honourable Leader of the Australian Country Party seeking taxation deductions for donations by foreign multi-national corporations would amount to subsidising the control and disposal of Australian resources, and naturally the Government will have no part of this whatever. I further state that it is probably true to say that most political parties have skeletons in their cupboards, but some skeletons are bigger than others, notably those concerned with providing the Sim. This is an opportunity for those parties to bury those skeletons. From here on, after the legislation is introduced, a new era will be started in Australian politics, removing from candidates and organisations the insinuations that there can be a Spiro Agnew or another Watergate in Australia. 
I am interested in the right honourable member's concern to get taxation deductions for his multi-national sponsors but I regret that I am unable to oblige him. The legislation is under consideration. It will be so watertight and so extensive that we are prepared to receive representations from anywhere to see whether it can be improved. I suggest that the right honourable member put his suggestion in writing and we will give it appropriate consideration. 
For a gentleman who has nothing to hide, the Leader of the Opposition was very excited. Realising how disturbed he is at the revelations in regard to the funds behind his Party I excuse his protests. Even you,  Mr Speaker,  may forgive him for defying the Chair at a time of great stress. The honourable gentleman asked: 'Why do not we debate this matter?' I say to him: 'Why did you let the Country Party pip you in respect of this motion today? Why did not you put the matter on the business paper for today if you were so anxious to debate your milliondollar slush fund? 

 Mr McMahon - I rise to order.  Mr Speaker,  you have made very diligent efforts to try to ensure that question time is confined to questions as a result of which information can be conveyed by Ministers- (Honourable members interjecting) - 
 Mr Speaker,  like you I had difficulty sorting the question from the speech, so you will excuse me if I go on with my answer. I can assure the honourable member that trade unions do not pay taxation because they are friendly societies. If, of course, the honourable member wants to tax all friendly societies they will no doubt be included in the provisions of the legislation but other friendly societies might be affected. I would like to say to the honourable member too that he may be assured that the legislation that will be brought down will not exclude any Party or any organisation. We will not mind who contributes money other than multi-national and foreign-based companies without a base in Australia. But one provision will be - and there will be a very severe penalty for contravening it - that all their donations and contributions will be made public. There will be no escape from that. I am delighted to know that the right honourable member supports it. I only wish he could speak for his colleagues in another place. The right honourable member will get a full chance to debate the matter. If he wants to be brought up to date he can look first at the Canadian Act and he can look at other Acts in force in western Europe. If he makes a good study of them he will see many provisions that will meet his wishes expressed this morning. I can understand his concern, but the Labor Party is not running away from this issue. We have closed the pass for the Liberal Party. It need not reveal where it got what it has got, but from here on - from the date this decision was announced - all political parties will have to tell John Citizen and others where their funds came from. We do not want any Spiro Agnews on that side of the Parliament and we do not want any Watergates on that side of the Parliament. 
An answer shall be relevant to the question. 
Let me quote from the 18th edition of May's Parliamentary Practice'. Under the heading Oral Answers' it says: 
An answer should be confined to the points contained in the question, with such explanation only as renders the answer intelligible, though a certain latitude is permitted to Ministers of the Crown. 
In his recent edition May gives an authority for that in a footnote. It refers to the ruling of a Speaker in the House of Commons as long ago as 1861. It shows that this has been the practice of the House of Commons for over a century. I have looked up that reference and I found that a Minister had taken 3i minutes to answer a question. The other day I asked Hansard how many words a minute an honourable member uses here and I was told about 180. I counted up the words, and when Lord John Russell in that case - 
I will finish my answer by saying that trade unions do not pay tax any more than do the health funds which make contributions to Liberal Party funds. But I say on a very serious note that legislation requiring the disclosure of campaign funds donated to political parties will be a major change in policy for any government in this country. The legislation will be far reaching and extensive. It will be presented to this Parliament in due course. It will cover all political parties and individuals. Time will be given to members to discuss it fully. Therefore I hope I have answered the question satisfactorily. 
 In accordance with the established practice of this Government the motion tomorrow will be debated. Furthermore a vote will be taken tomorrow. However, I advise the honourable member that due to the Queen's visit and the heavy legislative program there is no opportunity to extend the time tomorrow for that debate. I assure him that each member can vote- on this side, and on that side for all I know - in accordance with his own free will and conscience. There will be no restriction on how members vote but at about midday tomorrow the question will be put and a vote will be taken so that all who feel that way can attend the luncheon to the Queen. 
by leave - I move: 
That during the joint consideration of the matter referred to the Committee of Privileges on 15 October 1973  Mr Keating  be appointed to the Committee in place of  Mr Sherry  who was appointed on 15 October 1973. 

 Mr Sherry has drawn to the attention of the Committee of Privileges the fact that he is a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. As the matter referred to the Privileges Committee relates to a letter allegedly written in connection with the hearings of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation,  Mr Sherry  believes that he should take no part in the Privileges Committee inquiry. The motion is proposed accordingly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented by the Leader of the 
Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who read a statement in which he said he sought tax deductions for contributors to campaign funds. That did not exclude multi-national corporations. They are included. I submit that the statement of the Leader of the Australian Country Party means that he would give tax concessions not only to Australian residents and Australian corporations but also to those multi-national organisations which are putting millions into the funds of his Party. It is true that I said that it will not be retrospective. The Leader of the Australian Country Party should know that one of the worst features of legislation is when it is made retrospective. It is contrary to conditions. Therefore it will date from this date in order to allow the Country Party to escape from its murky past without any penalty and set itself on a straight course in the future. 
I should like to inform the House that because of functions for Her Majesty the Queen and His Royal Highness, Prince Phillip, the sitting of the House today will be suspended from 4.45 p.m. to 8 p.m. and tomorrow, the sitting will be suspended from' 12 noon until about 3.15 p.m. 
I declare the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1973 is an urgent Bill. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be considered an urgent Bill. 
I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with this Bill be as follows: For the second reading, until 4 p.m. this day; for the Committee stage, until 8.15 p.m. this day; for the remaining stages, until 8.30 p.m. this day. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill is an urgent measure. It is one which, as Opposition members have stated, has far reaching implications. The Corporation will have far reaching powers. The Opposition has decided that it will oppose both this Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill which are being dealt with as cognate measures. Therefore I assume that the Opposition is against every clause in the Bill before the House. In consequence of that, there is no great purpose in delaying this Bill from being considered in another place. Furthermore, it was introduced into this House on 30 August. There has been ample time in which to debate the measure, apart from the time when the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was overseas, but the Opposition was not ready to debate it. Last Monday at the request of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  this debate was postponed because the Opposition was not ready to proceed with it. 
It is not rot. It was listed for debate last Monday but at the request of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition the debate was postponed until another day. Had the Bill come on for debate on Monday ample time would have been available to debate it. Because of the factors I have mentioned and because of other associated matters it is not possible to delay this measure going to another place any longer. I might say that we were prepared to give to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition unlimited time to speak on this Bill, and we were prepared to devote much more time to debating it, but because of the delaying and frustrating tactics adopted, particularly by the Country Party, the consideration of legislation is being interrupted unnecessarily by those who are determined not to hear debate on matters but to frustrate the activities of this Parliament. I simply say to honourable members opposite that when they delay the deliberations and considerations of this Parliament and when they waste time by bringing on matters that are not important, by moving for the suspension of Standing Orders and by other means they must expect to have reduced the time allotted for consideration of other matters. 
Let me demonstrate how time has been wasted. Earlier today the Opposition initiated discussion of a matter of public importance, and it could not even maintain a quorum in the House during that debate. It was just wasting time. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who initiated the debate- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)There is no point of order. 
 I have listened with interest to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and also to the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  I refer particularly to what the honourable member for Maranoa said about questions. Firstly, I do not call those who are to ask questions. That is the responsibility of the  Speaker  of this House. If the honourable member says that the  Speaker  is allocating questions unfairly he is casting a reflection on him. 
 You know well too that he is following the pattern that Liberal Party speakers set for 20 years. The honourable member raised certain questions in regard to what I had said. I will tender an apology to him if he can produce a speech made by him when he sat on the government benches like the speech that he made tonight. He knows full well that he never sought reform to bring about democratic practices until he sat in opposition. When he sat on this side of the Parliament he heard the former honourable member for Mallee ask half a dozen questions for every question asked by a member of the Australian Labor Party, and he never raised his voice at all. He is a humbug and a phony. He has only become a democrat since he has sat in opposition. He could not give a hang what happened to members of the Labor Party when they sat on the Opposition side of the Parliament and when he sat on the Government side, pounding us into the ground because he wanted the  Speaker  appointed by his government to call him a dozen times in preference to calling one of us who then sat in opposition. 
The same applies to the honourable member for Bradfield. For 30 years he sat in the Parliament as silent as an extinct volcano, and now he is going off like Mount Vesuvius. He is like others on that side of the House; they are great democrats in opposition but they were jackbooters in every sense of the word when they sat on the government side. He said that Government supporters had asked 139 questions compared with 90 asked by Opposition members. Why do honourable members opposite not sit their leaders down. They ask questions after questions - and useless questions. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  asked me a question today that lasted for 10 minutes, and it tok me about 10 seconds to answer it. Why do honourable members opposite not pull their leaders up? Why do they not stop them asking so many questions? 
The honourable member for Maranoa said that Opposition members are entitled to 3 questions to every one asked by a Labor member. Why should they be? Roughly the Parliament is divided evenly. Why do honourable members of the Country Party not have a yarn with their leader and tell him to sit down a bit? He is only getting into trouble. Whilst the questions of the honourable member for Maranoa would be more useless at least he could not do any more harm. 
I am interested in honourable members opposite, the great reformers in Opposition. For years they did not care what happened when we on this side of the Parliament sat in Opposition. They asked question after question. They did not care if we never got a question. We sat on the Opposition side of the Parliament for weeks on end waiting for a chance to ask a question. Now,  Mr Speaker,  they cast reflections on you. The honourable member for Maranoa said in effect that I was picking the members who would ask questions. I am not doing that. I would not blame the  Speaker  for not picking the honourable member for Maranoa. He would be the last person I would look at if I was looking for an intelligent question. 
Let me bring the honourable member right up to date. I have here the report of the Standing Orders Committee of 20 March 1972. Let me educate the honourable member, if it is possible. Let me tell him who the members of the Committee were at that time. There was the  Speaker, Sir William  Aston. Does the honourable member think that he was a nark, a no-hoper or a biased man? Does he not agree that he was a good man? There was the  Chairman  of Committees,  Mr Lucock.  My word,, what an intelligent, able man he is. He is a member of the Australian Country Party. The Leader of the House,  Mr Swartz,  was on it, as was the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Barnard  - a most reputable man. Then we had  Mr McMahon,  the former Prime Minister. I do not want the honourable member for Maranoa to express his opinion of that right honourable gentleman tonight. It would not be parliamentary. Another member was  Mr Anthony,  the Minister for Trade and Industry, once described by a member of the Country Party, as an office boy, but still he is Leader of that Party now. We had the Leader of the Opposition, and  Mr Bryant  whom the Opposition praised in this Parliament so well a couple of days ago. We had  Mr Drury,  a distinguished man in Parliamentary procedure, and  Mr Duthie,  a distinguished colleague of mine. We had  Mr Scholes  the  Chairman  of Committees in the present Parliament. The question that the honourable member for Maranoa raised tonight was raised by none other than the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  at the meeting of the Standing Orders Committee on 23 August 1971. The House agreed to a motion moved by  Mr Keating,  namely, that the matter of the distribution of questions be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. Does the House know what the unanimous verdict was? It was decided that the distribution of questions should stay at it has been exemplified in this Parliament. So does the honourable gentleman say that his leader and all those associated with him are phony and do not believe in the present arrangement? The suggestion by the honourable member for Maranoa was rejected by his own leader and by members of his Party and the gentleman who sits in front of him tonight. In other words members of the Country Party are a phony lot. They want everything for themselves when they are in opposition, but when they sat on this side of the Parliament they treated people with contempt. No wonder the Democratic Labor Party gave them away. What trouble one could get into through being associated with that lot who sit in the corner of the chamber occupied by the Country Party! Fancy looking for that kind of trouble. They are Democrats when they are in opposition and jackbooters when they are in government. 
Does the honourable member deny that the report of the Standing Orders Committee was fair? If he does, why did he not get up in this place and oppose it? Of course he did not. He sat as silent as the grave. He is a reformed democrat. In opposition he wants the world. When he sat on the government side he did not give anybody anything and cared only about what he wanted himself. Therefore if honourable members opposite want reforms I suggest that they make them when they are in government. I am sick and tired of members of the Country Party and other honourable members opposite demanding reforms in this Parliament, which for 20 years they refused to do anything about. If there is anything wrong with the running of this Parliament they caused it, because for 23 years they had the opportunity to reform the Parliament and they did nothing about it. They know as well as I do that whatever is wrong with the Standing Orders, whatever is wrong with question time in this Parliament, whatever is wrong with any other thing, it is their responsibility. We on this side, brilliant men as we are, cannot reform it all in 10 months. But let hon ourable members opposite wait and be patient and we will do a few things like this. 
The honourable member for Maranoa, as I mentioned a few moments ago, has become a remarkable reformer in opposition. Never have I seen such a convert to the cause of reformation as the honourable member for Maranoa since he has sat on the Opposition side. 
Oh, no. I apologise,  Mr Speaker.  You know that is not my form at all. I am a reasonable man, but you can understand how I have been roused tonight by this new-found democrat in our midst. I did not know he existed. To find a member of the Country Party wanting justice for members of the Parliament is indeed a remarkable discovery. Consequently I think that the honourable member's cause should die on that report I have mentioned. Perhaps he will get on to the Standing Orders Committee. Perhaps he will influence you,  Mr Speaker,  to call people from the Country Party twice and from the Liberal Party once. What would happen if that occurred? You know,  Sir, that  there would be a fight on that side of the fence again. We understand that the Country Party is only the second most important Party on that side of the Parliament. What would happen if the honourable member for Maranoa were called twice and the honourable member for Bradfield were called only once? Imagine the consternation and the disarray. On this side of the House we do not like disunity and we do not want to see it on the other side. We hate to see these public displays. We do not want to see honourable members opposite fighting publicly. What would be worse than to see them fighting over something like question time? These are matters that concern us here. If honourable members opposite only knew it we are doing them a good turn by trying to keep harmony in the ranks of the Opposition. What better can a government do for those people seeking power? 
Is it not good to know that in the distant future when honourable members opposite may get to this side of the Parliament again at least we will have made them democrats? They will let us have a number of questions. Will it not be nice if the honourable member for Maranoa is made  Speaker  and gives us 3 questions to 1 as against his own Party? Will it not be glorious? Last night he said that television stations were in business for the fun of it - that they did not want to make a profit. That is the kind of chap who is putting these things up. I ask the honourable member to read the report and if he wishes to add to it he can do so when his Party gets back into office in the far distant future. When we are on that side we will remember what he has said and we will ask him to adhere to it. 
I feel that I have said enough but the point at issue is that I am unmoved by the statements of the honourable member for Maranoa and the honourable member for Bradfield. The honourable member for Bradfield is a great reformer who talks one way in the Parliament and votes another way when the chips are down. I have no respect at all for those people who will not vote as they think because in this place it is how you vote that counts, not how you talk. The honourable member for Maranoa and the honourable member for Bradfield should put their votes where their hearts are and then we on this side of the Parliament will believe that they are fair dinkum. 
 I declare that the National Investment Fund Bill 1973 is an urgent Bill. 
Question put. 
That the Bill be considered an urgent Bill. 
I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bill be as follows: 
For the second reading until 3.50 p.m. this day; 
You are deplorable as a man. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented today and yesterday by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  Yesterday in debating a minor procedural motion - and also today - which I had moved to assist the House in conducting its business with suitable expedition, the honourable member for Moreton referred to me as one suffering from the Munchausen syndrome. As my usually encyclopaedic memory for literary references had temporarily deserted me, I did not take up the point in depth at the time. I am now able to inform the House that Baron Munchausen - the person to whom the honourable member was alluding in his allegation - was a gentleman much prone to exaggeration. I also understand that he was given to talking to monkeys. 
The imputation that I might, at any time, be guilty of exaggeration is quite without foundation, as every member of this House knows. The second imputation regarding monkeys, however, as I look across this chamber, I can hardly deny. To be fair to the honourable member for Moreton, it may be that he was referring to another of the Baron's well known exploits. The good Baron claimed that he had once, with a single shot, brought down 68 ducks. As honourable members know for a fact, without any exaggeration, I regularly come close to emulating this feat. Quite often in this place I am to be seen shooting down 58 galahs with a single well aimed gag. 
Yes. Today while I was in my office I heard certain members of the Australian Country Party, not all of them, quoting from the proof issue of yesterday's House of Representatives Hansard. 
He claims misrepresentation through eavesdropping. I think this was the first time I have ever heard such a claim made in this House. But of course it was not misrepresentation at all; it was the truth. He then went on to say: 
That copy of Hansard is the uncorrected copy which was printed late last night. What I said actually was: not many members of the Country Party'. I said that on 2 occasions and I didmake a mistake in regard to the honourable member for Moore. 
He said that his actual words were: 'not many members of the Country Party'. That was false. That was absolutely and completely false.  His  words were recorded in Hansard. If honourable members will look at the text of Hansard they will see that it is not very easy to amend it in the way that the Minister wanted to amend it and falsify it. The fact that he was prepared to go to these lengths of believing he could make these major alterations to falsify Hansard rather than coming here like a man and saying: 'I am wrong; I made a mistake', which is pardonable, shows something of the character, I fear, of the Minister. 
He did not end there. In the debate on the adjournment that night the matter was raised again by the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson).  The Minister then said again that he had been misrepresented and again I quote what he said: 
I remind the honourable member for Cowper that he is quoting from a proof or uncorrected copy of my speech last night. If he had been in the House earlier tonight and heard my explanation, he would have understood the position perfectly. 
The Minister is out to falsify Hansard, not to apologise for his mistake, and then accuses the honourable member for Cowper. But it did not end there. In the adjournment debate I brought the matter up further and asked the  Speaker  to have a look at it and verify what the Minister had said. A most disgraceful thing was said by the Minister. He implied that I was speaking falsely, because he said I had been asleep during the speech. That was utterly untrue. It was a disgraceful, filthy imputation. The Minister does not seem to be ashamed of himself, as indeed he should be. 
The matter came to a conclusion at the next sitting of Parliament. The Minister was overseas, but the  Speaker,  by what means I do not know, verified Hansard. I imagine - I do not know - that he listened to the taped recording of proceedings and he found out that what the 
Minister had said was utterly and completely false and was not very far from being a concerted conspiracy to falsify, because it was not just one thing. Here we have a Minister who, when he is caught out, tries to cover up. He uses his majority; he uses every form of the House; he abuses his position as Leader of the House. He is lost apparently to all sense of honour when he does things like this. Let me quote what the  Speaker  said as recorded at page 730 of Hansard: 
I am satisfied that the report is accurate. 
The passage in Hansard will not be altered. 
The Minister even now has not apologised. He has not apologised to the House for his dishonourable conduct. All I can say is that I have tried to put this on the record and I shall endeavour, by every means at my power, to have this matter published in the Minister's electorate so that his constituents can gain some kind of knowledge of the standard of truth which is embraced by the honourable member who represents Grayndler in this Parliament. What I have said is factual and to the point. Everything I have said is verifiable in Hansard and cannot be answered just by some kind of smear that the Minister is capable of emitting on any provocation.  His  only defence is to try to bring forward more falsehoods when he is cornered. I have seen him in this position before. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
I do not intend to waste a lot of time on a man who made a speech about me when he was asleep. The night I made the speech to which he has referred he was sound asleep over there on that side of the chamber. Then be got up and deliberately misled the House by saying that he had heard things said which he had not heard. The fact of the matter is that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was sound asleep that night, actually snoring loudly. He got up at the finish of my speech and proceeded to tell the House what I had said. It is an unbelievable experience to be accused of saying something by a man who is dead asleep. It must be an unusual event. Tonight he accused me of eavesdropping. I remind all honourable members of this Parliament that when they are sitting in their rooms listening to my speeches from time to time they are all eavesdroppers. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I was in the course of replying to some statements made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who accused me of eavesdropping because I was listening in my room to the broadcast of the proceedings of the Parliament. I remind the honourable member that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  just came into the chamber and said that he was listening in his room to the broadcast of the proceedings of the Parliament and he heard something. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition must know that he is now an eavesdropper with me. Those were the words of the honourable member for Mackellar. 
The honourable member for Mackellar also made statements tonight about a speech I made on 29 August. I say tonight that he was asleep at the time I made the speech in this Parliament because I deliberately pointed that out. Furthermore, if he recollects the speech I made in connection with the Country Party he will recollect that I said 'speaking from memory'. If the honourable member studies the Hansard report, from which he read, of the proceedings of the following day he will see that I was under the impression that 1 had said not many' and it was corrected accordingly. Therefore, the basis upon which the honourable member has levelled these charges has been completely exploded by my statement as reported in Hansard on 30 August. I do not mind being being attacked by honourable members who are awake in the House, but I resent honourable members who sleep in the Parliament attacking me. 
When the honourable member for Mackellar and other honourable members opposite decide that they want extra sitting times and to sit late hours and then they come in here and deliberately disrupt this Parliament - as the honourable member for Mackellar does - seeking to be made heroes by being thrown out and then can muster only 37 miserable votes out of 58 they are making a sham of the Parliament. They are all being paid under false pretences because they will not stay here even until 11 o'clock at night. Barely half of them are here tonight, but all day they hold up the proceedings of the Parliament. The worst offender is the honourable member for Mackellar. He has nothing to say. The other day he could not even get a division called for on the suspension of Standing Orders. He has only one supporter. He sits in a black suit alongside the honourable member. Even the Country Party gave him away on half of his propositions. The fact of the matter is that all the honourable member for Mackellar wants to do is disrupt the Parliament. He thinks it is being run exclusively for W. C. Wentworth. 
If the honourable member thinks this Government is not exercising its rights he should read the record of the infamous administration of his colleagues over 20 years. The honourable member should go through Hansard and see how often he voted for the guillotine and the gag and constantly refused to let my colleagues and I discuss everything from social services and Aborigines to other things. Anyone who reads through the list will see that the one who leads it is the great democrat who attacked me tonight. This Parliament is being run in accordance with the best traditions. Why, we see the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  acting all day like a first-class larrikin, and an educated one, too. He acts in this Parliament like an educated larrikin from morning till night. He is dying to be thrown out,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but has not been obliged yet. They think they are heroes. (Honourable members interjecting)- 
That would be nice. 
I understand that the honourable gentleman took exception to the fact that I said he was an educated larrikin. Is that correct? 
Do you object to the word educated' or the word 'larrikin'? 
Opposition members - Name him. 
Do you mean both remarks? 
I do so,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I just wanted to be clear in my mind what the situation was. I have no further time to debate this matter as the Opposition deliberately has stopped me from replying to- 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Mir  DEPUTY  SPEAKER-Order! I have called the honourable member for Mallee. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I ask the honourable gentleman to resume his seat. 
by leave - I wish to inform the House that it is the Government's intention that the debate on the motion moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  regarding the siting of the new and permanent House be resumed this Wednesday, 24 October. This timing is, of course, provisional to the extent that it may have to be reconsidered in the light of progress with urgent Government business. Honourable members will recall that at the beginning of these sittings I foreshadowed that, in the event that it was not practicable to finish debates on General Business matters on the day they were first dealt with, the debates would be adjourned and that later in the sittings the House might, if it so wished, have a special Friday sitting to consider all adjourned General Business debates. 
The situation at present is that, of the various matters raised during General Business in these sittings, only the debate on the siting of the new and permanent Parliament House has not yet been completed. I am sure that honourable members will agree that it is most desirable that a decision be made on this matter without any unnecessary further delay. I am also conscious that the current sitting arrangements of the House are placing strain on honourable members and that many might be unwilling to add a further sitting day to the heavy program of sittings already in front of us. For these reasons, therefore, I believe it would suit the convenience of the House to hold the debate this week, before other pressures on the time of the House build up. 
I ask for the co-operation of honourable members in ensuring that the debate does not take too much time from other important business. 
Honourable members will already have had opportunity to consider the issues put before them when the debate first arose and to decide where they stand on these issues. I would hope, therefore, that we can look forward to a relatively short debate before the matter is taken to a vote. 
Finally, I draw the attention of honourable members to the exhibition being set up by the National Capital Development Commission in King's Hall. 
 I declare the Industries Assistance Commission Bill an urgent Bill. 
 I move: 
That the time allotted for the Committee stage of the Bill be until 9.15 this day. 
The debate on this Bill has now been proceeding for 6 hours 41 minutes. There were 4 hours 48 minutes on the second reading debate and there has been 1 hour 53 minutes in the Committee stage. Earlier today we especially extended the speaking time on the second reading to meet the convenience of members of the Australian Country Party and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  We purposely extended the time on the understanding that a reasonable time would be taken in Committee and that honourable members opposite would finish the debate on this measure by about 8.30 tonight. Those arrangements were not honoured. But, mind you, this was not as a result of any action by the Liberal Party; it was because the Country Party refused to let the majority party on the Opposition side dictate what the Opposition would do. The situation is that all day honourable members opposite have been seeking to hide their differences on this Bill. It was only a few moments ago when I goaded them that they crossed the floor and voted in the way they had indicated in their speeches. 
This Bill is being declared an urgent measure because the Country Party has fought to let the people know that it is opposed to it, but members of that Party did not have the guts to vote against it, except on one minor amendments a few moments ago. We are forced to make this an urgent measure because the Country Party is seeking to frustrate the business of the Parliament, trying to give the phoney impression that it is fighting this measure. I excuse members of the Liberal Party. They are casting one of their most intelligent votes on this matter. The Liberals are voting with the Government. 
I suggest that further consideration of the proposed expenditure for the Department of Education be postponed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Is the suggestion of the Minister agreed to? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Department of the Environment and Conservation 
Proposed expenditure, $1,729,000. 
I am also prompted to become a little lyrical by the final words of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  I quote to him some words from Edmund Burke's 'Observations on " The Present State of the Nation " published in 1796. They are: 
It is a general popular error to Imagine the loudest complaint's for the public to be the most anxious for its welfare. 
Does that not apply to those opposite today? I am pleased that the honourable member for New England dwelt on the members of the present Ministry because later on in this speech I intend to devote a little of my time to the exmembers of the Ministry on the other side of the Parliament. Then I will ask for the fair minded judgment of all the people of Australia to see whether the guilty men who sit on the other side are not responsible for the situation in Australia today not the brilliant men who today lead this country from these front benches. 
Before I do so, however, very briefly in the time at my disposal I shall deal with the final section of this censure motion moved against the Government. Section (f) states that the Government is to be condemned because of its mismanagement of the national Parliament. Even though I might not be that astute, I think that section refers to me as Leader of the House. I shall give honourable members opposite the record of this Government in respect of the administration of the affairs of this Parliament and all again may judge how it has gone. Any fair minded honourable member will agree that under this Government the proceedings are conducted in accordance with the Standing Orders and the highest traditions of Parliament. They exemplify dignity, respectability, patience, tolerance, fairness and justice. 
 Let me tell the honourable member before he goes the midnight special when he was in government what we have done. We have had no sittings after 11 p.m., except on one occasion caused by Opposition tactics. The adjournment debate has been conducted three or four nights a week, except on one occasion due to Opposition frustration of the Standing Orders. General business has been called on on every occasion and with one exception taken to a vote. That matter will be voted on tomorrow. Grievance day has been called on all occasions, but this has been interrupted by delaying tactics by Opposition honourable members who interfered with private members' business. Adequate time has been given for debate on all important measures, except when delaying obstructionist tactics were engaged in by members of the Opposition Parties, particularly the Australian Country Party. There have been no sittings after midnight. The guillotine and the gag have been applied only in most extreme circumstances due to obstructionist tactics by the Opposition going beyond what could be called reasonable conduct in the Parliament. 
To summarise, because of the lag in effective legislation due to the previous Government's incompetence, a record number of Bills has been introduced. In addition, there has been no suspension of grievance day or general business during the Budget session. Under the previous Government they were never called on at any stage during the Budget session. There have been longer sitting hours certainly, and more sitting days because of the legislative program. Within this scope the Government has allowed adequate debate and used to a minimum the Standing Orders to stop debate. Despite earlier obstructionist efforts by Opposition members they have not been denied their right as private members to move the suspension of Standing Orders, as we were prevented from doing under the previous Government and which every honourable member sitting opposite voted for. The Parliament has been conducted democratically and in accordance with the highest traditions of this august House. 
Now let us have a look at the sorry record of those who sit opposite. In 1970, 1971 and 1972 the gag was moved 163 times by those who sit opposite. I think the  Deputy  Liberal Party Whip moved it 160 of those times. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said today that the guillotine was applied only once in 1971 by the previous Government. But the Liberals did not muck about when they moved it. They put 17 Bills through in 19 hours under the one guillotine. These are the democrats. Look at the Bills they put through, and particularly the Australian Country Party members, these defenders of the rural man. The Loan (Farmers Debt Adjustment) Bill 1971 for all stages was allowed 5 minutes - 5 minutes those fighters for the cockies gave it. The Seamen's Compensation Bill was also allowed 5 minutes. The AngloAustralian Telescope Agreement Bill was also allowed 5 minutes. The previous Government telescoped that one right enough. The Air Accidents Bill and the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill were allowed one hour. Looking through the list of the Bills guillotined one sees that 17 Bills were put through in 19 hours. That was the real degradation of the Parliament under those who sit opposite. So do not let them talk to me about the guillotine. I should like to have incorporated in Hansard for all to see for all time the damning record of those who sit opposite in respect of the conduct of this Parliament. 
Of course not. The Opposition has always got to run away from its crimes. When they are put on the record everybody knows about them. Grievance day has been called on on every occasion except once when the Opposition did not want to debate it and stopped private members from doing so. General business has been considered on every occasion. There have been no sittings after midnight. Let us compare that with what happened under those who sit opposite. In 1967 we sat till 5.7 a.m.; in 1968 we sat on till 2.42 a.m. on one occasion; to 2.39 a.m. in 1969; to 4.42 a.m. in 1970; to 6.22 a.m. in 1971; and to 1.43 a.m. in 1972. As I said before in this Parliament, under the previous Government we went home only when the pimps, the prostitutes and the police were on the streets. That is the way it ran the Parliament. 
The number of sittings so far this year total 58, and we will create a record by the end of the year. Bills introduced total 197 and there have been 30 hours debate on the adjournment, as compared with 26 hours last year. Private members' Bills and motions, that were not considered by the previous Government, totalled 11 in 1972 and there were 18 debated and not finalised when the Parliament was dissolved and the former Government disappeared into limbo. What a rotten and contemptible record for people who condemn this Government. 
Let us have a look now at what the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  did. On 25 November 1969 the right honourable member called the Parliament to meet for one day. Just prior to that, on 26 September the Parliament had gone into recess. After it met on 25 November 1969 for one day it went into recess until 3 March 1970. When the Parliament met again the Governor-General's Speech lasted 59 seconds and the 21 -gun salute took 3 minutes to go off. The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  moved the adoption of the Address-in-Reply in 2 minutes. Then the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  in one of his most brilliant speeches, seconded the motion in 20 seconds. Six gags were moved in the debates that day. 
On that day we did everything that one could remember in Parliament. The Parliament assembled; the Address-in-Reply debate took place; the members were sworn in; the  Speaker  was elected; the  Deputy Speaker  was elected; the Ministry and ministerial changes were announced; the Whips were elected; there were condolence motions; the committee to prepare the Address-in-Reply - that Government knew when its speakers spoke for only 2i minutes that they were not too bright - was elected; the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply was moved and seconded; and then, like bats out of hell, Government supporters ran out to the GovernorGeneral and at 5.45 p.m. gave him the 2-minute Address. Then we had papers presented, committees appointed and petitions presented, and a censure motion which was moved by the then Leader of the Opposition was disposed of in just about 60 minutes flat. We got home early on that occasion after the adjournment debate finished at 12.57 a.m. For the next 3 or 4 months the democrats who now sit opposite disappeared into the wilderness and did not bother bringing the Parliament together in that time. What humbug it is to hear honourable members opposite growl about the way this Parliament is being run. 
I would like to mention that a former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins - I tell this to honourable members opposite who misused the Parliament - is reported in Hansard of 25 November 1969, when speaking about the moving of the gag, as having said on that memorable day: 
If it- 
That is the then Opposition -  is going to seek hour  long  debates on the motion that the House should adjourn to a time to be fixed and other hour long debates on the motion that leave  of  absence should be given during those adjournments, then clearly it is not really advancing the cause  of  parliamentary government in those debates at all.  . . The alternative to what he has suggested is a wrong thing to do would be to have unlimited time for debate on whether the House should adjourn and whether leave should be given during the period that the House has agreed it should adjourn. 
In other words, the right honourable member for Higgins indicated in that speech that if honourable members frustrate the will of the duly elected government they must expect to have their efforts curtailed by the use of, as it is popularly called in this place, the gag. 
So today I do not want to hear snide complaints being made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition about his inability to control those who sit on the opposite side of .the House. How can we make arrangements for debate with honourable members opposite? The members of the Country Party are talking to the Liberals only by the use of braille. In other words, there is no means of communication known to man which they use - only the secret signals that they give. Whatever the Liberals want is not wanted by those who sit in the Country Party corner of the House. Last night we saw in this Parliament the glorious unity of those who seek to achieve office again in this nation. The members of the Liberal Party rambled over to this side of the House, making a total of 86 on this side, while the members of . the Country Party sat in their corner of the House. How can we make arrangements? As soon as we make an. arrangment it is broken by one party or the other because of the disunity that exists. 
Having said so much, I place on record without any apology the attitude of this Government towards parliamentary democracy and the efforts we have made to ensure that the people opposite get the right to speak, as they should. Let us have a look at the exMinisters on the other side of the House. Let us run through a few of those who on this occasion seek to take office in this country. I have not a very high opinion of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  as a politician. He seeks to lead this country.  Senator Gair,  one of his colleagues in days gone by, has views in regard to him.  Senator Gair  is on record as saying:  'Mr Snedden  could not make an impression on a soft cushion'. Where do you go with that one?  Senator Gair  is not on his own in that respect. Right down the line honourable members will see that pattern continuing. I have with me newspaper cuttings to which I will refer later. 
Look at the new Ministry that will be formed if the Opposition gains office again. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  a former Prime Minister, when he plucked up enough courage, kicked the right honourable member for Higgins out of his Cabinet. But now the Leader of the Opposition has the right honourable member for Higgins sitting on the front bench. The only good thing about it is that the Leader of the Opposition does not seem to take any advice from him. But the question is: Will the right honourable gentleman be in the Cabinet if the Oppositionhappens to win office again? Where is the Opposition's joint executive? The Country Party has its executive in its corner and the Liberal Party has its own executive. It is impossible for them to agree on everything. No matter whether it is fish and chips or primary industry, when somebody makes a statement 2 views have to be expressed from that side of the Parliament. The Country Party goes one way and the Liberals go another. Let me refer to an article in the 'Age' on Monday, 22 October. It is a report of an interview given to a Melbourne student newspaper by the right honourable member for Higgins. It quotes him as saying: 
The future must lie with the Chipps. If it lies with the Greenwoods there won't be any future. 

 Senator Greenwood was one of the Liberal's senior Ministers. In that interview the right honourable member for Higgins was not too complementary to the right honourable member for Lowe, another former Prime Minister. He was asked: 

 Mr McMahon prays about politics; have you ever dreamt about politics? 
The right honourable member for Higgins is reported to have said: 
I don't think I can remember dreaming about politics, and I don't think I've ever had as much need to pray as  Mr McMahon. 
Will they not make a hillbilly Ministry? Will it not be good when they sit down in the Cabinet room and talk over old times? They might occasionally pick up a copy of the Age' and read these things. Will that not be lovely? In that interview he was asked: 
Do you think McMahon will make a comeback? 
The right honourable member for Higgins replied: 
Have you ever heard people walking around the streets lately saying 'I wish McMahon was back as Leader of the Liberal Party'. He's got a nuisance value still, he rings people up all day long. I think he's a completely spent force myself. 
But they both will be in the one Ministry, happily chopping along, wrecking the economy again as time goes on. Then, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  - 2 ex-Ministers - are on record as saying that they would never serve in the same Ministry as the right honourable member for Higgins. But those 2 honourable gentlemen are both on the front bench again. 
The right honourable member for Higgins returned the compliment by saying, as reported in the 'Daily Telegraph' of 28 May 1973, that if the honourable member for Wannon ever became leader 'it would be a disaster'. Cannot honourable members imagine the happy gathering in the new Cabinet if the Opposition gains office again? It will be glorious as the members sit around and have their first scotch and soda together. I imagine that, far from being a Ministry, it will be more like Alexander's Ragtime Band. The question to be asked is: 'What kind of a government would it be and who would be in it?' The honourable member for Wannon is on record as saying that the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins, is 'unfit to hold office'. Honourable members can go right down the line and see this continuing pattern. But members of the Opposition have given the present Leader of the Opposition the imprimatur of support. They have said that they will support him again if they have an election, provided he does not lose by too many votes. Are they not the kind of supporters a leader would want to have behind him? They really exhilarate a leader. 
I now come to the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who, in complaining about the McMahon Cabinet, said: 'The Cabinet leaks like a ruddy sieve'. The people about whom I am speaking will be members of the new Ministry that is about to be formed! I am reminded about another comment in regard to the Leader of the Opposition. I quote another of the famous Gair statements.  Senator Gair  is on record as saying that the Leader of the Liberal Party is 'a lightweight who could not go 2 rounds with a revolving door'. Who would not say that about the Leader of the Opposition who complained about 'a mangy deal' and 'who was churching the old whore now'? Can one blame  Senator Gair  for making that comment? That is the situation albeit. Then we have to bring in the members of the Country Party because they make a few statements. I reckon one would put the Country Party Ministers in the same category as 'Dad's Army', I will refer now to an article in the 'Australian' of Friday, 3 August 1973, entitled 'Anthony's "thickhead" jibe at Libs'. The article states: 
The Liberal-Country Party split in Victoria is leaving the way open for Labor to rush into a double dissolution, the Federal leader of the Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  warned last night. 
Speaking in Melbourne after a special meeting of the Victoria Country Party State central council,  Mr Anthony  bitterly attacked the Liberal Party State executive as 'thickheads.' 
I reckon I am a bit with him for once. Then he gave real vent to his feelings, as reported in the 'Daily Telegraph' of 3 August in an article headed 'Snap poll: ALP would romp in*. He is the Leader of the honourable gentleman who just resumed his seat. The report states: 
Labor would 'romp in' if a snap election were called now and if the rift between the Country and Liberal Parties continued,  Mr Doug  Anthony warned yesterday. 
Why some of those thickheads don't realise this I don't know', he said. 
When one thinks about it, one realises that they are a couple of the most sensible statements he has made for a long time. One can go right through all the statements. Honourable members opposite complained about our Cabinet changes. On 4 August there was a newspaper report headed 'Snedden remakes Liberal Cabinet'. The members of that Liberal Cabinet were elected only about 3 months before that date. What kind of a leader would he be? The headline in the Melbourne Age' of Tuesday, 13 February states: 'Party's divided: Snedden'. Another headline states: A house divided'. Another headline from the Melbourne 'Sun' of Tuesday, 13 February, states: 'Libs "plagued" by split . . .'. This was the Leader of the Opposition talking. Heavens above! I refer to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  of Baron Muenchausen fame. He writes for a journal. I do not want to offend him but I am one of his few readers, because he puts me in a good mood. He writes some sense, sometimes, like the articles in the 'Courier-Mail' of 21 July this year which was headed: 
Killen blasts CP. 'humbug' 
According to what the honourable member has said here, he sleeps with his eyes open and talks with his mouth shut. Let me say that I understand that the advertising company was a purely Australian company that was taken over by a multi-national corporation during the time of office of the Government of which the honourable member was a Minister. I advise him that the multinational company to which he referred is totally different from those which subscribe to Liberal Party funds. We pay it, it does not pay us. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill, which provides for a number of amendments to the Lands Acquisition Act 1955-1966, is to enable the Australian Government's land and property requirements to be handled in a more businesslike and expeditious way appropriate to modern practices and to efficient administration. The chief provisions of the Bill are: 
Section 4 authorises the Minister to approve all acquisitions by agreement of land and interests in land for a public purpose approved by him under the Act. The section also allows for acquisitions by agreement which are being processed under the provisions of the principal Act at date of assent of this Act to be completed under those provisions. 
Section 7 provides for the short term interest rate to be paid where compensation outstanding on land compulsorily acquired is less than 3 years. In other cases the long term interest rate is payable. Short term and long term interest rates are prescribed. The section also provides that where an acquisition has been compulsorily acquired some time before the date of commencement of this Act, and compensation has not been settled, interest would be payable under the principal Act up to the date of assent of this Act and at the appropriate new rates thereafter. 
Section 8 authorises the Minister under Section 53 of the principal Act to dispose of land no longer required by the Australian Government and to grant leases or licences over such land. The section also allows for disposals which are being processed under the provisions of the principal Act at date of assent of this Act to be completed under these provisions. 
Section 9 amends section 64 of the principal Act to allow the Minister to delegate his power to enter into an agreement with a land owner before or after compulsory acquisition on the amount of compensation to be paid for his land. 
Other amending sections are of a machinery nature, for example, section 6 refers to metric distance in lieu of imperial; section 10 amendments arise mainly because of changes in drafting style. 
Apart from minor technical amendments, the Lands Acquisition Act remains unchanged since it was enacted in 1955. 
Over 90 per cent of acquisitions of land and interests in land by the Australian Government are completed by agreement between vendors and purchasers and lessors. However, the Minister's authority to conclude these transactions in a businesslike way under the principal Act is limited to cases where the price with the vendor does not exceed $1,000, or in the case of leases, where the term does not exceed 3 years, or the annual rental does not exceed $1,000. A similar limitation applies to the disposal of Australian Government land interests. The approval of the Governor-General is required for all other acquisitions and disposals of interests in land. The effect of these limitations is to impose an unreasonable burden on the Minister and the Department and virtually to nullify the process of acquisition of any interest in land by delegation to departmental officers. They impose an inordinately large burden of paper work on the Minister and the Department and in this context I must emphasise that these limitations occur in cases of voluntary acquisition of land and property where mutual agreement has been reached between the purchaser and the vendor. 
Honourable members will perhaps have a greater appreciation of this problem when I emphasise that, very frequently, Executive Council action is required in terms of the Act when the amount involved is as low as $1 and where leases or licences exceed 3 years. Leases or licences over land for power lines, telephone poles, etc., could be up to 30 years or more. Therefore, the Act in its present form leads to absurdities which involve not only the Minister but also the Governor-General in Council. The Government regards it as important that approvals for land dealings on its behalf should be effected having regard to present day land values and efficient administrative practices including adequate delegations of authority. The arbitrarily fixed figure of $1,000 had no particular significance when it was fixed in 1955. Today it is even less significant and is quite out of step with practical administrative considerations and modern business practices. 
Australian Government land transactions have increased with the expansion of Government activities. The number of minutes referred to the GovernorGeneral in Council for approval is now running at a rate of approximately 1,000 per annum. The proposed amendments in the Bill will limit references to the GovernorGeneral in Council to approximately 100 per annum. This is because the Government has decided that there should not be any change to the requirement that the acquisition of land by compulsory process should be authorised by the GovernorGeneral in Council. The decision to acquire land compulsory will still remain with the GovernorGeneral in Council. In this connection, honourable members will be interested to know that, although the procedure for compulsory acquisition applies to approximately 100 cases per annum, the major proportion of these are with the consent of both parties in order to expedite settlement and accelerate transfer of title at the earliest possible time. The Bill proposes that the Minister should be authorised to acquire by agreement any interests in land, including leases and licences, and also that he be authorised to dispose of, and grant leases and other interests in land owned by the Australian Government. 
The Minister's powers of delegation under the principal Act relating to the determination of compensation for land acquired or to be acquired by compulsory process is limited to $1,000. As mentioned earlier, the figure of $1,000 is quite unrelated to present day land prices and the Bill proposes amendments to the Act to remove the present limit of $1,000. The principal Act provides for payment of interest on compensation for compulsory acquisitions at 3 per cent per annum for periods up to 2 years and thereafter at 4.5 per cent per annum. These rates have remained unchanged since 1955 and are quite unrealistic and must be changed. The rates should be more in keeping with the market in order to do justice to dispossessed owners. The Bill proposes that they be changed so as to relate the interest rate payable on compensation to changes in the short term and long term interest rates. 
There have been a number of cases where competition between Australian Government departments and statutory authorities or where agreements negotiated by statutory authorities have lead to excessive rentals being paid by the Australian Government for accommodation or, if negotiations had been handled by the Department of Services and Property, there would have been a substantial saving of public moneys. The Government recently directed that competitive bidding between departments and statutory authorities in the land and property market should be eliminated and that the Department of Services and Property should in future conduct all negotiations. The Government also directed that consideration be given to the amendment of Acts, which currently give statutory authorities power to make their own approaches or to arrange their own rentals with a view to having the Department of Services and Property established as the negotiating authority. Provisions have already been included in a number of Bills which have been introduced into this Parliament, but the amendment of the Acts constituting all statutory authorities would not be practicable for a long time to come. 
Therefore, as a further measure to stabilise the land market and eliminate practices which lead to excessive rentals and land prices, the Government has decided that it would be appropriate to amend the Lands Acquisition Act to ensure that the Minister will undertake acquisition of land and interests in land on behalf of Australian Government statutory authorities. This provision has not been included in the Bill before the House but I would like honourable members to know that I propose to move a suitable amendment at an appropriate stage to give effect to this principle. The effect of the proposed amendments will be to substantially strengthen the Lands Acquisition Act. The Minister responsible will be given authority to acquire by agreement land and interests in land not only on behalf of Australian Government departments but also on behalf of Australian Government statutory authorities, and this can only be to the advantage of the Government and the people. The Bill deserves the support of all honourable members and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill introduced in the Senate was to amend section 1(8) of the Public Works Committee Act to increase the mandatory limit for works considered by the Public Works Committee from $750,000 to $2m. .During 1972 the Committee, through the extensive efforts of its members, examined a total of 35 proposals, 17 more than in any previous year. This general increase in the number of references to Committee is continuing with 54 possible proposals listed for 1973 on the current basis of reference. On present planning the Committee would have to deal with an average of 6 projects per month. However, during the parliamentary sessions an average of only one week per month is available for inspections and hearings. It is obvious that the Committee could not possibly investigate such a large number of proposals as thoroughly and effectively as it has in the past. 
In addition, the Committee has found that the cost level in real terms above which Commonwealth works proposals must be referred to the Committee has been diminished over the years by inflation. As a result the Committee is now examining proposals which, in the past, would have been valued below the statutory limit. Consequently, relatively minor projects are being delayed, and this increases the time and cost involved in presenting evidence before the Committee. The figure of $2m was set after due consideration of the number of works projects which the Government contemplates, and the relative amount of time available to the committee to look at these projects. This figure would have resulted in 36 projects to be investigated by Committee - in other words a program similar to that of 1972. 
However, the Senate passed an opposition amendment to the Bill which, in its intention, would require the Public Works Committee to examine all capital works in excess of $2m undertaken by statutory authorities as well as Government departments. It is obvious that such an amendment would negate the original purpose of the Bill, resulting in the Committee being further burdened with works referred to it by the sixty or so statutory authorities. 
The Government wishes to remain flexible on this matter, and has already launched an in-depth examination by an inter-departmental committee of the full range of works undertaken by all arms of the Australian Government in an attempt to draw up a more rational method of selecting those works which should be referred to the Public Works Committee. In committee, therefore, I will move an amendment which will have the effect of deleting the amendment passed in the Senate and restoring the Bill to its original form with the undertaking that the in-depth examination be undertaken and pursued as a matter of urgency. 
 The Government will vote against this clause which will have the effect of restoring the Bill to its original form, as I outlined in my second reading speech. 
Clause negatived. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as  a  whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
I thank the honourable member for a very important question. It is true that the proposals that we have in mind for amendment of the Electoral Act will force all parties to disclose the names of donors - both foreign and home interests - to political campaign funds. It is possible that the Country Party had this in mind when it changed its name in Queensland and Western Australia. I can assure the honourable member that neither the Country Party nor any other party will escape or evade the law by a change of this kind, irrespective of the intentions behind its move. I am inclined to think, though, from reports and statements by the Leader of the Country Party, that for some strange reason its members have become ashamed of the name 'Country'. Little did I dream, having listened to those members opposite so proudly proclaim how they represented country interests and country interests alone, that they would go on record as saying that 'Country' was an insular name and that they must get away from it. I can understand people escaping their crimes by changing their names. I know that the Country Party has plenty to escape. To an extent, its members should be congratulated for realising at long last that their crimes are finding them out and that they have had to change their name to escape their crimes. 
I am aware of that anomaly. When in Canada recently I ascertained that the conditions that apply to radio and television there in regard to broadcasting political matter before an election apply to the Press also. The matter that the honourable member has mentioned will receive consideration because I think it is worthy of attention in view of the attitude towards radio and television broadcasting as opposed to Press reports. 
 I move: 
That the time allotted for the Committee stage be until 4.45 p.m., Thursday, 8 November. 
This is an urgent measure. No legislation is more looked forward to than this by the Australian public. The Government had hoped, in the light of the speech this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in which he expressed the view that it was so important, that Opposition supporters would have behaved tonight in a manner befitting a debate of this kind instead of acting like a group of unorganised larrikins intent only on disrupting the business of the Parliament. There were 4 hours 40 minutes allowed for the second reading debate on this Bill. We had hoped that the debate would have continued for a lengthy time. Even under the proposals I have enunciated, when this debate concludes tomorrow evening, a total of 9 hours 10 minutes will have been devoted to it. Tonight speakers on the Opposition side who rose in this debate were unintelligible in their attitudes. They were determined not only to frustrate the will of the Government to have this legislation debated properly but also they were without any knowledge at all of the subject that they were supposed to be discussing. It is as simple as this. The Opposition had determined that it was not going to debate this Bill. In another place the Opposition ran away from it. Today the Leader of the Opposition in his speech on the second reading ran away from the measure. The Opposition has tonight determined that it would make a farce of the whole of the proceedings and that it would not debate the legislation in any way at all. Its whole intention was to force the Government to take action to ensure that the legislation would be debated. That is precisely what we have done. I say to honourable members opposite: Do not try to pull the wool over my eyes by claiming that you did not want this to be done. Of course you did. I will give you some good advice. Never call my bluff because I am not yet sick of shooting down galahs. This legislation is the most important that has come before the Parliament. Have honourable members ever seen such reprehensible conduct as they saw in the Committee stage earlier tonight when the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was speaking on clause 1 of the Bill? 
Tee  CHAIRMAN  - Order! I suggest to the honourable member that he should stick to the motion. 
I am sticking to the motion. I am pointing out why this action is necessary. If the Opposition really aspires to be the government of this country its supporters should behave like people who are paid to be parliamentarians. I do not think one honourable member opposite has studied this legislation and that is why they did not want to debate it in a sensible way. 
The Leader of the Opposition has come into the chamber to save his minions from disaster. He must know that those behind him did not want to debate this legislation tonight. I noticed tonight that none of the leaders of honourable members opposite gave much support to those who were endeavouring to disrupt the proceedings. I say to the Opposition without any reservations that it is entitled to use the Standing Orders of this Parliament as it thinks fit but it should not go crook about things when we react in the same way and use the Standing Orders. In case the memories of honourable members opposite are bad I point out that if they can count they should remember that they cannot win when we use the Standing Orders. I do not like to have to remind honourable members opposite of this but I am constantly forced to do so. Either they cannot count or they will not count. The situation is that if honourable members opposite set out - as they did in the Committee stage of the Bill - deliberately to disrupt the Parliament and force us to take action they cannot complain if action is taken. 
In another place honourable senators spent only 3i hours discussing whether they would postpone this important measure or not; but we are prepared to allow, despite the Opposition's disruptive tactics,  9i  hours or more in order to discuss all of its ramifications. Therefore I suggest to honourable members opposite that they should conduct themselves in accordance with the Standing Orders of this Parliament and in a manner befitting the dignity of a member of Parliament and not behave like a lot of under-educated larrikins in a place where they are expected to show some respect for the people who elected them to this place. It is an urgent measure. It is a good measure. 
That is why I have moved the motion. I hope that it will be carried. Honourable members opposite should not forget that I am talking in their time. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committees, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourale gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible, having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
The Leader of the Opposition should have directed the question to me. I am not aware of the circumstances of the matters that he has mentioned or whether they are right or not. It is a fact that the Government seeks to remedy all the injustices that have occurred in the past in respect of radio and television broadcasting at election times. If these things have occurred, under the proposals of the Government there will be remedy and justice will be given to all. If these matters have occurred and if the legislation is passed by the Parliament it will be binding on all radio and television stations, be they politically owned, controlled or otherwise. What we seek to do under these proposals is to ensure that everybody seeking election to office in this country has equal opportunity on our radio and television waves. 
by leave - The White Paper has been tabled. There will be a debate this morning on the question of health on a motion that will be moved by one of the members of the Party of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  We do not wish to take up the time of private members this morning in debating this White Paper. I do not mind moving that it be printed, but I can give no assurance that it will be debated this session. There will be an opportunity during the debate on a health Bill that is to be brought in to cover the issues raised by the White Paper that has been presented, and all the contents of the White Paper will no doubt be under discussion when the legislation to be brought down by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is being debated. As honourable members know, the White Paper is an extensive one, but I imagine it will be properly debated in conjunction with the health legislation that is coming down. That assurance is all I can give the honourable members. 

 Mr CHIPP (Hotham)- by leave- That explanation is completely unsatisfactory to me, because it makes a farce of the whole concept of White Papers. The whole concept of a White Paper is to put it down, allow members to consider it and then debate it. 1 would have thought that that was the whole purpose of it. In view of the stand taken by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  I give notice that at an appropriate time, after the Opposition has had a chance of looking at the 
White Paper, we will be moving the suspension of Standing Orders so that this House can debate this very fundamental document. 

 Mr DALY (Grayndler- Minister for Services and Property and Leader of the House) - by leave - This White Paper will be covered in the legislation that is to be introduced. We are giving the Opposition 3 weeks notice in effect of what is in the legislation by tabling the White Paper in order that the Oppositon will be fully prepared, and it as simple as this. We do not mind it being debated but time will not permit us to debate it outside the debate on the health legislation that is coming down. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  says that it is a strange procedure. There is nothing strange about it. It is an advanced procedure to let the Opposition know in full detail by way of a White Paper the contents of legislation to be introduced - something unprecedented in this House and a remarkable step forward. 
On behalf of the Minister for Defence I present for the information of honourable members the Defence Report 1973. I understand that copies of this report are available immediately. 
 I move: 
After sub-clause (1), insert the following subclause: - " (1a) Any direction given to the Commission under sub-section (1) shall be in writing and the Attorney-General shall cause a copy of the direction to be published in the Gazette as soon as practicable after the direction is given.". 
 I was interested in the comments of the honourable members who have spoken on the need to explain matters carefully because last night they reduced the debate on this Bill deliberately to a farce and were not a bit interested in the contents of the legislation other than in trying to ridicule very easily understood clauses in it. It is interesting to note today that they are coming to a serious strain of mind which is all the more commendable. I am delighted to have 2 eminent lawyers asking a layman like me for my interpretation of the legal aspects of the legislation. It brings me to the situation of agreeing with  Mr Justice  Bowen who said that there are probably too many lawyers in this Parliament and that those who are here are not much good anyhow. Surely one would not need an LL.B. or a leading Bar practice in Brisbane to understand the reason for this amendment. Clause 29 (1) states: 
The Attorney-General may give directions to the Commission in connexion with the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers under this Act other than its functions and powers under Part VH. and the Commission shall comply with any directions so given. 
That should be clear to any observant person. Surely that does not need any explanation. As a layman I understand that it means what it says and surely the lawyers should. However, the Government has added a sub-clause (1a) which says: 
Any direction given to the Commission under subsection (1) shall be in writing and the AttorntyGeneral shall cause a copy of the direction to be published in the Gazette as soon as practicable after the direction is given. 
Surely that is an ordinary reservation that could be made to ensure that there is no secrecy about what is done, that directions are known to all and that therefore there is no subterfuge or desire to evade. I would have imagined that, far from tackling this amendment in the style that has been adopted, the Government would have been commended for the open government approach it has shown to this clause. I hope the explanation I have given is satisfactory. I am sorry that the honourable members had to waste their valuable time asking this question. I did not realise that it would be necessary for such eminent personalities associated with the law to do so, and I trust that my explanation is to their satisfaction. This is a machinery amendment and I hope it will be accepted because it does improve the Bill. 
To move an amendment or to accept an amendment is not an acknowledgment of scrappy drafting or anything of that kind. It shows a commendable approach, even at the risk of it being said that one was wrong in the first place, towards improving legislation that is brought in. This practice is not new to any government. On several occasions the previous Government brought in a number of amendments to its own Bills and far from criticising this amendment I would have expected the honourable member for Moreton to have paid a tribute to the Government for trying to improve its legislation, difficult as it was, with a commendable amendment of this kind. 
 Do I take it that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is opposed to judges being appointed to the Trade Practices Tribunal?  His  statement was far reaching and covered everybody. He said that the Australian Labor Party would give jobs to the boys. Can he name a couple of judges whom the Labor Party has in mind to appoint to these positions? The honourable member's statement was sweeping. 
The honourable member referred me to clause 31, line 24, which covers the appointment of judges to the Federal Court. I should like to know from the honourable member whether he thinks the judges to be appointed will be corrupt. Does he infer that? Does he quibble at any appointments that have been made already by this Government? Members on the other side of the Parliament have commended the trade union officials who have been appointed to certain boards. Is it good enough for the Liberal Party to appoint only members from big business who support the Liberal Party while other sections of the community are unrepresented? The record of the previous Government was one of patronage deluxe, from diplomatic posts right down to industry, commerce and everything else. It was all right while the Liberal Party was packing the boards of Qantas Airways Ltd and all these other concerns, but there is some criticism of what may happen under Labor. 
When all is said and done he said that this Act provides for penalties ranging to gaol sentences. Why should not people who exploit the people by corrupt trade practices be gaoled, if necessary? Who are they robbing but the pensioners and the people on wages and incomes for whom the Opposition says it speaks so much? Why should not there be huge penalties for those who indulge in corrupt trade practices? The real fact of the matter is that the honourable member for Griffith is a defender of corrupt trade practices and does not care who is exploited as long .as the offenders can go unmolested and unchallenged. Instead of making this broad statement about who will be appointed and who will not be appointed, the honourable member should cite some people that he would not like the Labor Party to appoint. I remember when in days gone by honourable members opposite did not like the appointment of  Sir William  McKell but honourable members opposite followed line with the present Governor-General. Was that patronage? He is a notable man. 
I could go right down the full pattern of appointments made by the previous Government. Why should the honourable member make these broad statements? This Government has an honest record in respect of appointments and to say that all those appointed under this Act will be supporters of the Labor Party is not only very unfair but also is a far-reaching statement that can never be justified. It is all right to create this kind of fear. The honourable member - a member of the Liberal Party - would challenge the integrity of the judiciary! Let us not forget that the honourable member for Griffith did not qualify his statement. He said that, starting from the top, there were going to be jobs for the boys. I wonder what  Mr Justice  Bowen would say if he heard that comment. Would the honourable member for Griffith be agreeable to  Mr Justice  Bowen being appointed? Would he say that he was a corrupt man, even though he was a Liberal before he became a judge? Of course he would not say that. The fact of the matter is that this is just a fear tactic from the other side of the Parliament designed to protect the great interests that honourable members opposite represent and to stop any restriction being placed on their capacity to exploit by adopting trade practices which hold the community to ransom, economically and in every other way. 
The criticism that has been levelled by the honourable member for Griffith will have to be better based. Of course, it is easy for honourable members opposite who have never studied the Act at great length to stand and question every line; they sound' a bit intelligent that way. Honourable members opposite know that they are speaking this way only for something to say and, of course, to protect the interests that they on that side of the Parliament represent. For my part, I have no doubt that the Labor Party, setting that high standard that it always sets, will pick the men of the highest integrity and ability. The Opposition may think that judges are crook but we on this side do not think so. We pay a tribute to them for their just and proper approach to things. 
Yes, all so far have been appointed by the Liberal Party. Let the honourable member for Griffith get up and tell us which judges should not be appointed to the Tribunal. Before he names any of them he should make sure that he is not going into court. These statements will not bear investigation. I point out the false approach of those who sit opposite. It is like their approach to health services and everything else. It is an attempt to spread fear in the community as to which of these sinister people will be appointed. If honourable members opposite were on this side of the Parliament every supporter of the Liberal Party, every big businessman would probably 'be given the right to be on this Tribunal. We on this side will be fair and just. We will pick the right men for the right positions - men of integrity, wisdom and judgment. Honourable members may be assured that predominantly they will have the interests of the community at heart and in that way will give effect to the provisions of the legislation in the interests of the people generally and not one particular sector of the community. 
I do not intend to spend much time on the greatest time-waster and biggest humbug in the House. All I want to point out is that never have I heard- 
Motion (by  Mr Cooke)  negatived: 
That  the question  be now put. 
 The 2 members who moved the motion last night, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who today stated that they had had no time to debate this measure, that they had had no time to consider the implications of it, last night came into this Parliament and treated this whole subject as a joke. 
 I will prove it. Last night in relation to clause 1 the following amendment was moved by the honourable member for Mackellar: 
Omit the word 'Trade' and insert in its place the word 'Fascist'. 
Following that ridiculous approach to what the honourable member knows to be major legislation, he then held up the business of this House for an hour, wasted one hour of the Committee stage, treated the Parliament with contempt and did not give a damn about debating the issue. Now he, one of the princes of humbuggery in this place, comes in and says that he has not had time to debate the Bill. Last night the honourable member for Moreton was also guilty. Their time-wasting was to be deplored. 
Wasting the time of this Parliament. The honourable member treated this Parliament with contempt. The honourable member said that the Government had this Bill listed on the blue sheet as one which was to go right through in a day. The honourable member knows that that statement is false. This paper is only a guide and shows that every Bill goes through the first, second and third reading stages. In making that statement the honourable member deliberately intended to mislead the Parliament and let the one or two outside listening to him think that that was the case. The situation is that there has been 91 hours debate on this measure. In another place they spent 3i hours deciding whether to put consideration of the Bill off until next February. Even before the Opposition knew how long it would have to debate the issue the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  had the honourable member for Moreton move this motion: 
The House is of the opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until there has been more adequate time to consider the implications contained in the provisions of the Bill. 
How did he know the Government would not let the Opposition debate it till next Christmas? Of course, he did not know anything about it. Honourable members opposite talk of the guillotine and of wasting time, but let them remember the 19 Bills in 17 hours that the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Mackellar voted for on one occasion. What has happened today? There are 58 members of the Opposition but to deal with this momentous measure the Opposition could muster only 46. Opposition members will not even attend Parliament to debate it yet they want extra time. As you well know,  Mr Speaker,  this is humbuggery de-luxe. Today they had all the afternoon, and there was all last night, to debate this Bill. The honourable member for Moreton, who says that he did not get a fair go, spoke 4 times on it today and spoke a lot of rot every time. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  spoke 4 times. The honourable member for Mackellar spoke twice and the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  spoke twice. Only 8 Opposition members out of 58 wanted to have any say on this momentous piece of legislation. Not one member of the Australian Country Party spoke. 
 There was only one. I withdraw that. One member late in the piece staggered to his feet and said a few words. And this is on the great issue the Opposition wants to discuss. Only 8 honourable members opposite were interested enough to rise to speak on the Bill. Does not that make a mockery of the Opposition's claim? The Opposition is holding up the business of the Parliament, yet every honourable member opposite voted against the extended sitting hours for the Parliament that I proposed. These are the people who try to mislead those outside. Honourable members talk about steamrolling the Bill. The wasting of time by this Opposition is known to all and sundry throughout the community. All it is endeavouring to do is frustrate this legislation. Let me remind honourable members opposite that they did not have even a member in charge of this Bill in the Parliament last night, and that is why they got out of control like a lot of hillbillies. There was no one here to look after them and keep them in check. There was not one leading member of the Opposition front bench leading the Opposition on this Bill. There was nobody who could understand it. Now today they come up with this rot. 
Of course honourable members opposite will hold up the business of this Parliament and the 2 honourable members who moved this motion are the most guilty men in the Parliament for time-wasting and phoniness. The honourable member for Moreton stood up today fresh from his small debts practice and asked me a lot of legal questions. What is more, it is generally accepted that I gave him 'better legal answers than he charges for. I think I have shown the Opposition for what it is. It is just wasting time. I give the Opposition this warning: Keep on  wasting time  and we will all have Christmas dinner in this chamber. It will not worry the Government but I can see that if the Opposition can get only 46 members today it will have about six here on Christmas Day. If honourable members opposite want to debate these measures they should bring their members into the Parliament and see that they vote. When there is a Bill coming in they should rustle up more than 8 of their 58 members to talk on it. But do not let people outside think that honourable members opposite are interested when only 10 per cent or 15 per cent of them are interested in talking on this Bill. The 2 honourable members who moved this motion are condemned for all time as the major time-wasters. They deliberately filibustered this Bill and stopped the Committee getting to all the clauses. Then they say that the Government would not allow them to debate the Bill. I ask the people and the Parliament to judge, knowing full well that they will come down on the side of the Government. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to provide for a full-time  Deputy Chairman  of the Commission on Advanced Education. The Commission was established in 1971 with a full-time  Chairman  and nine part-time members. The operations of the Commission have increased since 1971 both in volume and complexity. The number of colleges has increased from 48 in 1971 to 83 in 1973. including 39 former teachers colleges. Student enrolments in the colleges have increased from 45,000 in 1971 to 95,000 in 1973. This growth in the colleges of advanced education has substantially increased the demands made upon the Commission, for all institutions look to it for help and guidance with developmental problems. 
A close liaison must be kept with the colleges to maintain the effective work at present being done by the Commission. It is essential, in the interests of ensuring the proper development of institutions, that regular personal contact be made with State co-ordinating authorities, members of college councils and college staff. Visits to institutions do much to facilitate the Commission's work and are necessary if the Commission is to provide objective advice to this Government on the development of advanced education. 
Initiatives of this Government in the fields of health, education and welfare are making heavy demands on the Commission which is actively involved both in the formulation of policy concerning the education of professionals in the areas mentioned, and in the implementation of other decisions and initiatives supported by the Government in respect of the colleges of advanced education. As will be recalled, new arrangements will apply to the funding of advanced education from 1 January 1974, and not only will provide for the assumption by the Australian Government of the existing financial commitment of States in respect of approved programs but also will include some innovation in the method of financing which will make allowance for cost rises during a triennium. 
The Government recently reviewed the demands upon the Commission and has decided to appoint a  Deputy Chairman  as an additional full-time member. The  Deputy Chairman  will assist the  Chairman  in his program of discussions with State Government bodies and colleges, and may co-ordinate a defined area of the Commission's activities. In so doing he will enable the  Chairman  to devote more time to other areas of policy in the field of advanced education. A full-time  Deputy Chairman  was appointed to the Australian Universities Commission in 1971 for essentially similar reasons. Provision has been made in the Bill for the  Deputy Chairman  to chair meetings when necessary, and to act as  Chairman,  if appropriate, in the Chairman's absence. This will ensure the continuing flow of the work of the Commission at all times. As is the case with the term of appointment of the  Chairman,  it is envisaged that the  Deputy Chairman  will be appointed for a term not exceeding 7 years. 
The opportunity has also been taken, at this time, to make other minor amendments to the Act. The word 'Australian' is to be removed from the title of the Commission, in line with Government policy, and account has been taken of the inclusion of the remuneration and allowance of statutory officers in the Remunerations and Allowances Act 1973. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  may I suggest that consideration of the proposed expenditure for the Department of Health, the Repatriation Department and the Department of Social Security be postponed? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Does the Committee agree to that suggestion? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be adopted. 
Department of Housing 
Proposed expenditure, $9,149,000 
Department of Services and Property 
Proposed expenditure, $60,284,000 
Department of Works 
Proposed expenditure, $104,801,000 (Quorum formed) 
 The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Grants Commission has recommended the payment of special grants to Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania in 1973-74 totalling J38.55m. Details of the grants are given in the Budget document - Payments to or for the States 1973-74, pages 14 to 16. Legislation to authorise these payments is expected to be introduced during this Session. The Commission's recommendations on applications by local governing bodies for financial assistance are unlikely to be available before the end of the current financial year. 
and (4) This is a matter for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development I understand that the Minister has written to the appropriate State Ministers seeking their views on proposals for regions. A decision will be made on these proposals as soon as possible after the State Ministers' views have been received and considered. 
This will be a matter for the Grants Commission to inquire into and report upon in the course of its examination of applications by local governing bodies for financial assistance. 
Yes. 
 The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
See my reply to part 3 of Question on Notice No. 1120. 
The needs of local governing bodies in all areas of the States will be the subject of inquiry and report by the Grants Commission. Until the Commission's report has been received and examined, the Government will be in no position to determine the allocation of funds to local governing bodies in particular areas of the States. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would bc happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Questions Nos 964 and 10S7. 
All I seek is leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard the findings of the Committee, which I think might well be recorded as part of the proceedings of this debate. 
The findings of the Committee are as follows: 
That a breach of privilege and a contempt of the House of Representatives occurred when - 
an unknown person, on Tuesday, 18 September 1973, made available to  Mr N.  E. O'Reilly, a copy of the draft report on Stabilisation of Meat Prices, 

 Mr N. E. O'Reilly transmitted his article to the 'Sun' on Tuesday, 18 September 1973, and 
the article was published in the 'Sun' newspaper on Tuesday, 18 September 1973. 
That  Mr B.  J. Tier, Editor of the 'Sun', and  Mr N.  E. O'Reilly, journalist employed by the Sun', are both guilty of a contempt of the House of Representatives. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  I suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 12 September be varied by postponing consideration of the proposed expenditures for the Department of Immigration and the Department of Labour. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Mackellar)  - Is the suggestion of the Minister agreed to? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Department of Northern Development 
Proposed expenditure,$1, 198,000. 
Pursuant to Section 16 of the Grants Commission' Act 1973, I present the fortieth report (1973) of the Grants Commission on the applications made by the States of Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania for financial assistance under section 96 of the Constitution. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I move: 
That in relation to the proceedings on the following Bills, so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of all the Bills: The Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1974, the Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill 1974 and the Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill 1974. 
Speaking briefly to this motion as I do not wish to take up the time of the House, the 3 measures which are covered by this motion for suspension of Standing Orders are all important measures of Government policy. They seek the agreement of this Parliament to proposals to put before the people of Australia 3 important changes to the Australian Constitution. It is vital that they be passed promptly in order that the people themselves have the opportunity to express their views in referendum. 
I cannot see why there should be any opposition to letting the people decide these issues. In these Bills - although they are very important - we are seeking not to change the laws of the land but to give the people the right to express their views. Yet I understand, by bush telegraph and other means, that the Opposition for its own selfish and spurious reasons of which we will no doubt hear shortly, do not want the people to have the right to decide what they want in these matters. I understand that honourable members opposite are going to oppose all 3 Bills which means, of course, that possibly every honourable member on that side as usual will submit his name on a list for speaking. Not only is this a completely unprincipled and undemocratic attitude; it is also doomed to failure and this is the reason amongst other things, why we moved for the suspension of Standing Orders, namely, for speed. If the Bills are obstructed in another place they will be passed again in due course by this House and the referendums will then be held in any case in accordance with section 128 of the Constitution. 
All that the Opposition can hope to achieve by opposing these Bills, no matter what the length of the debate is, is to waste the time of the Parliament and to delay the timing of the referendums. I cannot see why - nor can anybody on the Government side see why - honourable members opposite should be allowed to waste the time of the House in this purposeless and obstructive way. Honourable members opposite cannot hold up the legislation except for a time. To my mind, there has already been too much of this sort of obstruction and time wasting. If the Parliament had passed the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2)- which this House has passed on 2 occasions and which the Senate has twice rejected - one of these Bills would not now be necessary and the people of Australia would have equality of voting power. I would remind the House that in the debate on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) almost unlimited time was given to those opposite to enable them to express their views, no doubt precisely the same views as they will be expressing again in this measure. 
If this House were to agree promptly as it should that the important proposals in these Bills should be put to the people, we could get on to debating other important measures which must be passed before the House rises. I repeat: This is not legislation to bind people by law. It is a proposal to give the people the opportunity to decide whether they want these laws enforced, and for that reason it is urgent and necessary that the matters be put to the people without delay. I like Parliament. I like being here a lot, but I warn the House that unless the Opposition is willing to adopt a reasonable attitude on measures of this kind and to approach them not merely for the purpose of wasting time and delaying the business of the Government by indulging in obstructive tactics, we are doomed to a much longer session than has been anticipated. Much as I like this Parliament, there are many other places where I should prefer to have my turkey dinner this Christmas. These are matters which the Opposition might well keep in mind. We have an important program of legislation before us in addition to the measures I have mentioned today, and all the other Bills will take a considerable time to put through. People in Parliament must be realistic. While every one of us would no doubt like to speak on every measure brought before the House, such a course would not be possible in any Parliament in the world. Therefore reason must prevail. Members must have an equal opportunity to put their views on measures of this nature. I have endeavoured to ascertain what can be done about these Bills, and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has been co-operative to this extent, but the matters I have mentioned are of such importance that it would not be possible, without limiting the time for debate, to have them put to the people when they should be put. 
I am not unmindful that honourable members opposite would like unlimited debate on the substantive motions so that they could prevent the Government from putting these proposals to the people by way of referendum when the Senate elections take place. We cannot afford to be sidetracked in that way. Adequate time will be available if members use it effectively to put every point of view on these 3 constitutional measures. We propose to allow debate on them to proceed for the rest of this week, which is a fair proposition if members apply themselves to those conditions. I repeat that every argument that was advanced on Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) will be brought forward again in tedious repetition, particularly by members of "the Country Party. Consequently, to say that there will not be adequate time for debate on these measures is begging the question. I have no wish to delay the House any further before it gets on with its important deliberations on these measures, so I commend the motion to honourable members. I hope, in the interest of the people, "that the proposals for submission to referendum will be accepted with a minimum of criticism and unanimously adopted by the House. 
I declare that the following Bills are urgent Bills: 
I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1974: 
For the second reading, until 8.15 p.m. this day. 
For the Committee stage, until 8.30 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 8.43 p.m. this day. 
Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill 1974: 
For the second reading, until 5 p.m. on Thursday, 15 November. 
For the Committee stage, until 5.15 p.m. on Thursday, 15 November. 
For the remaining stages, until 5.30 p.m. on Thursday, 15 November. 
Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill 1974: 
Notwithstanding the order of the House of 1 March - 
For the second reading until 9.30 p.m. on Thursday, 15 November. 
For the Committee stage, until 9.45 p.m. on Thursday, 15 November. 
For the remaining stages, until 10 p.m. on Thursday, 15 November. 
As has been indicated, that will allow a considerable time for debate. I might mention for the benefit of those honourable members opposite who might realise that to be brief and to the point is a very effective method of debating that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in speaking to these 3 important measures covered every point very effectively in speeches which occupied only 18 pages of double space typing. Honourable members opposite might also be brief in making their speeches. Honourable members opposite complain that only a short time is to be allowed to debate these measures, but earlier today they took up the time of this House on a matter which could well have been deferred, and therefore they lost a couple of hours of debating time for these measures. 
We are declaring these measures urgent Bills because of the constitutional position and the need to have them passed by the Parliament. When the guillotine, as it is called, is applied honourable members opposite always scream about the lack of democracy and justice. I have in my hand a book entitled Turn Again, Westminster', by Woodrow Wyatt, who is a prominent British parliamentarian. Referring to the application of the guillotine in the House of Commons, he said: 
A ritual attaches to the application of the guillotine motion. A day's debate is devoted to it. The Opposition makes howls of protest at the undemocratic driving through of a BUI which is not to be adequately debated. The Government reply accurately that the Opposition used to do exactly the same when they were in power. The Opposition reply that they never did it in quite the way that the present Government are doing it nor on such a serious matter, and so forth. The Government speakers produce examples to the contrary. Cries of 'Gag', 'Hitler'. 'Fascist', 'Dictators', Stalin', rend the air. At the end of the debate the Government win, but all seem satisfied by the empty baying that has preceded the vote. 
I commend that to honourable members as an indication of the type of criticism that is levelled at us by honourable members opposite. That happens in the House of Commonsthe mother of parliaments. The Government in the House of Commons adopts this method with obstructive Oppositions. In this Parliament we apply the guillotine only when we are forced to do so. Earlier the Opposition Whip said that the previous Government applied the guillotine only once last year. But he did not tell honourable members that the then Government put 17 Bills on the block with the application of that guillotine. It made more sales in one swoop than Hookers make in a year and knocked the middle out of the legislative program. Among the people who supported that action most enthusiastically were the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and his  Deputy.  Consequently today when they moan about this they should remember that we are giving justice as it is deserved and in addition we are giving full and adequate time for discussion on measures on which the people should not be delayed in passing their judgment as to whether or not they should become law. This is not against the Parliament; this is a law of the people. 
Rarely has the House heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to worse advantage. The man aspiring to be Prime Minister of this country has argued today against letting the people have a chance to decide what their legislation shall be. This legislation is not to implement anything. It is to give the Australian people the chance to decide what shall be the laws of this country. Very graciously, after an apologetic speech, the Leader of the Opposition said that if the people wanted this, he would accept it. Is he not good and decent? But he will not let the people decide whether they want it and that is the fundamental purpose of this legislation. Those honourable members directly opposite, representing much less than 50 per cent of the Australian electorate, and those who sit in the corner of the House, representing less than 10 per cent of the electorate, now have decided that they, the minority parties in this country, will not let the Australian people have even a vote on a measure of such great importance to them. Honourable members opposite are telling the people that they are the ones who will be the be-all and decide-all in connection with this legislation. 
The Leader of the Opposition said: 'You may have a double dissolution'. I warn honourable members opposite that they should be careful. Their requests might be granted in due course, much to their annoyance and political dismay. However, even if their request is granted, that will solve the problem for only one occasion. It would be a short term solution. But what about the future? 
This legislation lays down a pattern for the Australian people, giving them the opportunity to decide to bring together the elections for both parliaments for the lifetime of this nation. In case, honourable members opposite need bringing up to date, I remind them that my information is that the Liberal Party in Victoria changed the law in that State to bring together elections for the Legislative Council and the Legislative. Assembly. So, the Liberals in this House are arguing one way and the Liberals in the Leader of the Opposition's own State are deciding on something that is supposedly different. Consequently, we have those people opposite who call themselves democrats telling the Australian people that they do not even trust them to vote on the measure. We will put a fair case from this side of the House to the Australian people and, if this is to be the case, the Leader of the Opposition can put the negative case. But in that case, will he include the fact that he spoke and voted in this Parliament to stop the people from even having a say in the making of their laws? 
This Bill provides for an alteration of the Constitution so that elections for the House of Representatives and for the Senate are held at the same time. That is what we are asking the Australian public to decide on - not the Government. not the Opposition, but the people who sent us here. Consequently we believe that the present system whereby the Senate and House of Representatives elections must be held separately is costly, unsatisfactory and inconvenient and it is time the system was changed. For the convenience of honourable members, let me firstly give a little background to the occasions when the Senate and House of Representatives elections have not synchronised. This first happened in 1929 when the Bruce-Page Government was defeated in the House of Representatives after only 10 months of office on an amendment to the Maritime Industries Bill moved by W. M. Hughes. The House of Representatives was dissolved on 16 September 1929 and an election for that House only was held on 12 October. The next Senate elections were not due until 1931. 
The Senate and the House of Representatives elections were brought together again with the elections of 19 December 1931. Joint elections continued up to and including the elections of 10 December 1949. Then followed the Senate's 'failure to pass' within the terms of the Constitution the second Commonwealth Bank Bill and the Governor-General on the advice of Prime Minister R. G. Menzies granted on 19 March 1951 a simultaneous dissolution of both Houses of Parliament. 
The consequential elections were held on 28 April 1951 and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the terms of the newly elected senators were taken to have begun on 1 July 1950. The back-dating of the term of service necessitated further Senate elections before 30 June 1953 whereas the newly elected members of the House of Representatives began their 3-year term from the date of the election - that is as from 28 April 1951. 
The next general election for the Senate was held on 9 May 1953, and the next general election of members of the House of Representatives was not held until 29 May 1954. The Senate and House of Representatives elections were brought together again al the elections of 10 December 1955. 
However, the elections of 9 December 1961 left the Government with a majority of only one in the House after the election of a  Speaker.  This situation caused the Government to seek a dissolution of the House of 
Representatives after only 2 years of office and a further election was held on 30 November 1963, once more resulting in the Senate and House of Representatives elections being held at different times. Senate elections followed in 1964, 1967 and 1970 and elections for the House of Representatives were held in 1966, 1969 and 1972. This 'out-of -phase situation' has been maintained because while the House of Representatives may be dissolved at any time, the Senate dissolves only on the occasion of a double dissolution. 
As the holding of general elections for the Senate is tied by the Constitution to the 12 months period immediately preceding the expiration of the term of service of the retiring senators, the bringing together of the elections for the 2 Houses can be achieved only by a dissolution of the House of Representatives before its full term, except by altering the Constitution as proposed by this Bill. 
The 1959 report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Review noted that the existence of fixed senatorial terms had increased the number of elections and that the number of occasions on which there would have been separate elections for senators and members of the House of Representatives would have been greater unless the House of Representatives had been dissolved before the expiration of its full term. On that Committee at that time were many members of this House, amongst them members of the Australian Country Party and others. 
The present Bill follows generally the lines of the proposals of the 1959 Joint Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Review. It honours an election commitment made by the Australian Labor Party and it takes up the proposal of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to the Constitutional Convention held recently in Sydney. The vital provision in this Bill is for a new section 13 of the Constitution. Under the new section. The term of service of a senator expires upon the expiry or dissolution of the second House of Representatives to expire or be dissolved after he was chosen or if there is an earlier dissolution of the Senate, upon that dissolution'. In general, Senators will have a term of service equal to 2 terms of the House of Representatives rather than a fixed term of 6 years, thus making it possible for elections for both houses to be held simultaneously. 
The Bill includes provisions covering a double dissolution situation as well as the position of senators elected under the present arrangements. Senators elected after a double dissolution will be divided by the Senate into 2 classes. The terms of one class being equal to 2 House of Representatives terms and for the other class, one House of Representatives term. In one case, the Senators whose terms began in July 1971 will continue in office until the second House of Representatives elections after the constitutional alteration comes into force; that is, 19.8, unless there is a double dissolution or an early House of Representatives election. In the other case, Senators whose terms commence in July 1974 will in normal circumstances, serve until 1981. These provisions will ensure that in no case the term of a senator will be less than that for which he was chosen. 
These proposals simply provide for simultaneous elections for both Houses - nothing more and nothing less - and they provide that we ask the people, not the Parliament, to decide. It must be stressed that they are not intended to change the basic character of the Senate as the second chamber in our parliamentary system. Senators will still enjoy a term twice that of members of the House of Representatives. The principle of continuous existence, commonly found in countries where upper Houses still exist, will be maintained by the rotation of senators. Half the Senate will be elected at the time of each election for the House of Representatives. 
The arguments in support of simultaneous elections are clear and simple. Our present system requires the elector to cast his vote on an excessive number of occasions. Since 1950. electors have been called upon to vote in 9 Senate elections, 8 House of Representatives elections and 2 referendums, excluding State and local government elections. Of the 9 Senate elections, four were held separately. Another Senate election must be held before 30 June 1974. Fewer national elections would simplify and sharpen the political process. Voters would know the choice before them - the election of a government - and could be more confident that the government so elected could effectively carry out its mandate, while political parties would be able better to plan their campaigns and formulate policies for government. 
Were these the only arguments in favour of. simultaneous elections for both Houses, in my view they would be judged to be more than sufficient. But there are many more. The detrimental effects of separate elections on the workings of Parliament and good government provide the most compelling arguments in support of simultaneous elections. The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review of 1959 said, at page 36 of its report: 
Separate elections tend to emphasise the component parts of the Parliament at the expense of Parliament itself. 
With simultaneous elections, the party returned with a majority of seats in the House of Representatives usually obtains the majority of the Senate vacancies in dispute at that time. The election is a statement of which party the people wish to entrust with the reins of government, the party from which they want leadership. The popular will at that time will be reflected in both Houses of Parliament. Separate elections do not, in practice, affect the formation of governments, but often they lead to situations where the government in the lower House the duly elected government at that time is frustrated by an oppositionheld senate. Notable examples can be found in Australian political history. In some cases, a government may be frustrated by an earlier elected Senate. A Senate no longer representative of the popular will of the electorate, as is exemplified in another place at this time. The Joint Committee stated, again at page 36: 
It is not conducive to sound government that the future of a recently elected government should depend upon eventualities of elections for senators which take place during the normal life of the House of Representatives. 
In a democracy such as ours, financial considerations should not be the determining factors in important decisions about the electoral process. But when additional expenditure is both unnecessary and detrimental, as in the case of separate elections, financial considerations are very relevant. There can be no doubt that the holding of simultaneous elections would represent a substantial saving to the public purse. I shall give a few examples. The elections for the Senate in 1953 and the House of Representatives in 1954 cost the taxpayers $489,491 and $479,051 respectively a total of $968,542. In 1955, the simultaneous election for both Houses cost $600,912. The 1961 simultaneous election cost $866,439. Two years later, the House of Representatives elections, plus one Senate seat for Queensland, cost $942,497.I spoke to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  about this a few moments ago. It will be of interest to honourable members. I have here figures showing the cost of elections from 1961 to 1973 and the esti mated cost of possible future elections if held during 1974. The figures have been compiled by the Chief Electoral Officer,  Mr Frank  Ley. I seek leave of the House to have them incorporated in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) - 

<graphic href="086131197311143_45_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="086131197311143_45_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. The financial benefits of simultaneous elections can readily be seen from these figures. The cost of a simultaneous election is only a little greater than the cost of a single election for either House. Put another way, the cost of a combined election is approximately 55 per cent of the total cost of 2 separate elections. 
These changes are long overdue. Separate elections are inconvenient, time consuming and expensive for the voter, for the State and for political parties. But their greatest disadvantage is the uncertainty and inhibition of decision making which can result when the 2 Houses of Parliament are politically out of step. In an era when decisive leadership is of paramount importance, we cannot allow the anachronism of separate elections for Parliament's 2 Houses to continue. This legislation seeks to give the people the opportunity to decide whether they approve of these proposals. I stress that. The people are entitled to this opportunity, and it is their right to expect the Parliament to give it to them. We on this side of the Parliament believe in democracy. We believe also that, if approved, the proposals will represent a great step forward in the democratic process, with consequent benefit to the Parliament, the people and Australia. I hope that they will be carried when presented to the Australian people. 
I point out to the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  that I have pulled up my pants. The more I hear the remarks of lawyers from the other side of the Parliament, the more I agree with  Mr Justice  Bowen that they are not only incompetent but also overpaid. Let me bring the honourable member up to date on the Standing Orders. He is a comparatively new member of the House and a slow learner.  Mr Speaker,  the situation is that you called for tellers and, with complete disrespect for the Parliament, honourable members opposite, acting like larrikins, refused to respond. Let me bring the eminent lawyer who has just resumed his seat right up to date. To do so, I quote from the Votes and Proceedings of the House of Representatives for the First Session of the 26th Parliament in 1967. On 1 March 1967, at page 28, the following is recorded: 
Constitution Alteration (Parliament) Bill 1967: The order of the day having been read for the resumption of the debate on the question - That the Bill be now read a second time- 
Debate resumed- 
Question - put and passed - Bill read a second time. Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 

 Mr Holt (Prime Minister) moved- That the Bill be now read a third time. Question - put. 
No division being called for and there being no dissentient voice,  Mr Speaker  drew attention to the constitutional requirement that the Bill must be passed by an absolute majority and directed the bells to be rung. 
The bells having ceased ringing,  Mr Speaker  again put the question and declared it in favour of the Ayes'. No division being called for and there being no dissentient voice  Mr Speaker  directed that the names of those Members present agreeing to the third reading be recorded, and appointed tellers. 
Among the honourable members agreeing to the third reading were: The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  a former Prime Minister, the fighting champ from Boothby, an honourable member who is the quorum king and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  The eminent lawyers on the other side of the Parliament who have been arguing against tonight's vote sat up and voted under entirely the same procedures. Let me continue this wonderful story. The votes and proceedings continue: 

 Mr Speaker declared that the question That the Bill be now read a third time ; had been resolved in the affirmative by an absolute majority. 
Bill accordingly read a third time. 
Then we come to the Constitution Alteration (Aboriginals) Bill 1967. The Votes and Proceedings state: 
The order of the day having been read for the resumption of the debate on the question - That the Bill be now read a second time - 
Debate resumed. 
Question - put and passed - Bill read a second time. 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 

 Mr Holt (Prime Minister) moved- That the Bill be now read a third time. Question - put. 
No division being called for and there being no dissentient voice,  Mr Speaker  drew attention to the constitutional requirement that the Bill must be passed by an absolute majority and directed the bells to be rung. 
The bells having ceased ringing,  Mr Speaker  again put the question and declared it in favour of the Ayes'. No division being called for and there being no dissentient voice  Mr Speaker  directed that the names of those Members present agreeing to' the third reading be recorded, and appointed tellers. 
Lined up again were the wizard Rhodes Scholar and others. They have all the brains in the world, but they could not understand a standing order if they read it for 3 months on end. A total of 113 honourable members agreed to the motion for the third reading and, like tonight, there were only 2 tellers, the honourable members for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin).  The Votes and Proceedings continue: 

 Mr Speaker declared that the question That the Bill be now read a third time - had been resolved in the affirmative by an absolute majority. 
Bill accordingly read a third time. 
Where do honourable members on the other side of the Parliament stand now? I have done a bit of reading in my spare time because one has plenty of time to read while one is waiting for honourable members opposite to think. Let honourable members look at the fourth edition of 'Australian Senate Practice' by  Mr J.  R. Odgers, an eminent authority, the  Clerk  of the Senate, one of our most notable public servants and a man skilled in the standing orders on constitutional matters. Do honourable members opposite deny his knowledge and background? I quote now from page 286, where it states: 
If the Senate does not divide on the third reading of a Constitution Alteration Bill, it is nevertheless the practice to ring the Bells and to record the names of those Senators agreeing, or otherwise, to the third reading. This serves the operation of section 6a of the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act which provides for the issue of a pamphlet containing the arguments authorised by Members who vote (a) for, and (b) against, the proposed law. 
Having given honourable members a lecture on constitutional procedure, let me take them back to the Standing Orders and remind honourable members opposite that the tools of trade of a parliamentarian are the Standing Orders. Honourable members opposite have plenty of work to do on their tools. Standing order 263 states: 
Whenever the third reading of a bill by which an alteration of the Constitution is proposed to be made has not been carried by an absolute majority of the House, the bill shall be forthwith laid aside and shall not be revived during the same session. 
Even if  Mr Speaker  has the wisdom of Solomon, how does he know that the third reading has been carried by an absolute majority unless he asks for a division and counts honourable members? The standing order is simple and clear. When one reads between the lines, it precisely lays down that that is the procedure to be followed. 
Having completely demolished the spurious and delaying arguments of honourable members opposite, I mention before I conclude that these are the gentlemen who said that they had no time to discuss the measure; these are the time wasters who refused to debate great constitutional issues, who tried to embarrass  Mr Speaker,  who were educated at all the A grade schools in the country and who are behaving in the national Parliament like second class larrikins. That statement goes for everybody, from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  down to the rank and file members. 
I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your Solomon-like wisdom and judgment tonight. 
You are a credit to the Parliament and you behaved with great dignity in the face of organised disruption against you. 1 would say that your judgment on this issue is in line with judgments made by all the great Speakers who have occupied that office. Tonight, therefore, I put on record that we have great confidence in your ruling. Having said so much and the time being so late and the Opposition not wishing to debate constitutional matters, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  made some allegations that he had been misrepresented. I pointed out in the course of my remarks that on this important constitutional matter, which is of great moment to the Australian people, I did not think that an honourable member of such high standing as the honourable member for Henty would treat the matter with scant respect and as a joke and refuse to act in the important capacity of teller on a matter that could change the lives of many Australians. It is regrettable that the Opposition Whip should refuse to fulfil his high office for which he is paid a considerable sum of money. 
I finish on that note. But the honourable member tonight has betrayed the trust that he has been given. He is taking money under false pretences and, what is more, he cannot count. 
The speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  sounded to me like a deathbed confession. All night the Leader of the Opposition sat here while those around him attempted to disrupt and to stop the proceedings of the Parliament on this issue. Now, with all the pathos and drama of a saviour of the nation the Leader of the Opposition comes forward and says, 'We will cooperate'. Let me tell the honourable member that we do not want his co-operation. Government supporters attend- the Parliament. They can suspend Standing Orders without his assistance and, unlike members of the Opposition Parties, when it comes to voting on great issues we do not have only 46 members here; we have our full complement. 
The Leader of the Opposition revived an earlier debate. I read out the speech that he made in that debate, and showed how what he said on that occasion exploded his own theory. He now argues: "There is a constitutional doubt about the passing of this Bill, but we will help to save the Government. Will you re-commit the measure?' He was trying to save something from the wreck caused by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  this evening when they came in here - one of them a second grade lawyer and the other a disrupter - and tried to disrupt the whole proceedings. 

 Mr Speaker, you have the wisdom of Solomon, the patience of Job and the effectiveness of a machine gun in certain circumstances. The Opposition found that out tonight. Now they are trying to introduce a suggestion that what happened was not right. On a great constitutional issue earlier today the Opposition demanded more time for debate, for time to be made available right up till Christmas, but by acting in a completely unparliamentary way it showed it was not willing to debate this issue in the Parliament now. This is all subterfuge. Members of the Opposition are ashamed because they will not let the Australian people decide the issue. They are afraid. They will not let the Australian people hear the various views on the matter and express their own opinion on it. 
Now honourable members opposite slink out of the House like mangy dogs, unwilling to stand up and take their medicine after throwing inuendoes at you,  Mr Speaker,  and at members on this side of the Parliament. Who leads them out? The prospective Prime Minister of Australia, they tell me. He threw mud all over the Government a moment ago, and now will not stand here and take his medicine. Why did not the Leader of the Opposition take part in this debate and try to stop his own supporters from disrupting it in every way? I do not intend to read again the earlier proceedings of the Parliament which proved that what I said is right. A division must be called for by the  Speaker.  That was done on the motion for the third reading of the Bill, and 64 members voted for it. As far as I am concerned, the Opposition can take the matter to any court in the land. All that the court will ask is: 'Was there an absolute majority of the Parliament in favour of the Bill?' The records will show that 64 members voted in the affirmative. 
I am just about sick and tired of second class lawyers in the Opposition trying to tell the people of this country what the law is and what it is not. Undoubtedly if an inquiry is wanted, it is into how lawyers get their fees. After hearing the lawyers opposite tonight, it is no wonder that the gaols of Australia are full. I should imagine that the Leader of the Opposition would have more clients in gaol than any Queen's Counsel in the history of this country. He cannot understand the records of the Parliament; he will not take notice of them; he will not take notice of the Senate proceedings; he will not take notice when he reads his own name in the list of those who voted on a previous occasion as I have indicated. Yet the Leader of the Opposition now comes into the House and suggests that the Bill be recommitted. He says: 'We will co-operate; we will be good.' It would be the first time ever if the Opposition did that. 
The situation is that the Government does not beg for mercy from this Opposition. By God, we will be desperate if we ever want its assistance. We will be right down. Let members of the Opposition go out and tell the people that they are going to challenge this Bill constitutionally. Not only in the Parliament do they oppose it, but also outside the Parliament they seek to prevent the Australian people from having a say on these issues. The Opposition will not let the people who sent them here decide a particular question. They have taken every tactical and rotten point in an endeavour to stop them from doing so. 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  reminds me of the mouse that roared. He has been silent all night. Now at the last minute he is awake. Why do not members of the Opposition come into this Parliament and vote on the Bill? Tonight they said that no honourable members called for a division. They know well that members who intend to vote for a motion cannot call for a division.  Mr Speaker,  in your wisdom you did what every  Speaker  before you has done. You called for a vote on the matter and then decided that the votes of those who were in favour of the motion would be counted. Thus the constitutional requirement was fulfilled. 
I am completely unmoved by the Leader of the Opposition's saying that he will co-operate. Let me tell him again - we do not want the co-operation of the Opposition to suspend Standing Orders, for members of the Australian Labor Party in this House do what they are paid to do. They come here and vote. They are not squirming away to their businesses, their interests and to those they protect, unlike the result opposite with a miserable turn-up of the Opposition benches of only about 45 members out of a possible 58. Every member of the Opposition ought to have been in his place tonight, because they are all pretty well paid to be here. Therefore, this business of the Leader of the Opposition's coming in late with a great, dignified approach does not move me.  His  own  Deputy  Leader insulted the  Speaker  tonight. This is the  Deputy  Leader who aspires to be  Deputy  Prime Minister. He would not apologise to the  Speaker  for his conduct. Also tonight a former Minister acted like an over-educated larrikin and had to be put out of the House. What sort of conduct is this that has been going on all night? Sitting opposite me at the moment is a member of the Country Party, a former Minister who, I have no doubt, will get up in a moment and say that honourable members have not had enough time to debate the Bill. Yet for the last hour and a half the Opposition has wasted every available second of the time of this Parliament in a disgraceful display. 
I have suggested to the Prime Minister in all seriousness tonight that in future when we are entertaining distinguished guests in this place, in order to protect the Parliament from the sort of conduct that we have seen tonight he had better make it an apple juice show, because we cannot put up with this kind of thing. It is bad enough that members of the Opposition acted as they did this evening, but the worst thing is that the Government bought it. I do not hide the fact. I know what steamed up the members of the Opposition. I know what caused their conduct tonight. I know also how reprehensible it was. It was disgraceful the way members of the Opposition went on, and I repeat that I am completely unmoved by what has been said. 
 One can always be certain that the very mention of electoral boundaries gives a nightmare to every member of the Australian Country Party. They sit in this place only because they are the greatest gerrymandered in any parliament anywhere in the world. Here is a Party one of the members of which, sitting in the back, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson),  was elected on 16.63 per cent of the primary votes. No wonder he does not want the system changed. The Australian Labor Party candidate who was defeated got 48 per cent of the primary votes and the Liberal Party candidate polled 24 per cent, with the Democratic Labor Party candidate getting 8 per cent and the Independent candidate 6 per cent. The honourable member for McMillan beat only a couple of Independents and the DLP candidate, but he is now sitting in the Parliament. Why would he not fight for the gerrymander? Why would not the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  get animated? Why, he has a Party that since 1949 has only once polled more than 10 per cent of the vote of the people but has exercised 16 or 20 per cent of the power in this Parliament. Why would he not want a system that has given the Country Party the premiership and government in Queensland on 19 per cent of the vote? No wonder members of the Country PartY do not want the Australian people to pass judgment on this kind of system. 
The Leader of the Country Party, speaking today, was not attacking the legislation; he wants to deny the people the right to say whether or not they stand for Country Party gerrymanders or for a fair and equitable system in respect of electoral boundaries. The honourable member spoke about distance in relation to country seats. The Australian Labor Party holds more country seats than any other party in this Parliament. In addition, we hold the largest seat - Kalgoorlie. We have the seats with the highest population. We are the only Party that has done anything to make the task of country representatives easier by providing them with some of the things needed to make it easier for them to represent their constituents. 
The Leader of the Country Party said that only 2 hours had been allocated for discussion on this Bill. Does he not know that the Liberals wasted last night on tin pot points of order and hurly-burly an hour and a half that might well have been spent in debating this measure? An hour and a half was thrown away last night by the Opposition which, in a contemptible way, had no respect for the dignity of this Parliament. Some months ago in this Parliament we debated the issues involved in this measure. There was lengthy debate on it, and I remind the Leader of the Country Party that it was not rejected by this House. It was passed twice in this chamber in an attempt to give equality of voting to the Australian people, but decadent old men in the other chamber, comprising mainly the rump of the Liberal Party, decided that they would not allow the Australian people to have equitable voting. That is why we have not got it today. Having a good look at the Leader of the Country Party and the Country Party itself, one asks how could they win without loaded electorates. Who would vote for them? The Leader of the Country Party talks about 45 per cent of the population enrolled in my district. Only slightly more than 50 per cent of the eligible population is enrolled in the electorate of the Leader of the Australian Country Party, yet he reckons he will be the next Prime Minister. I do not aspire to that position. He can get only 50 per cent of the people in his electorate to bother to enrol. No wonder Country Party members want to fight for the present system. 
I shall now outline at some length why they fight for it. The honourable member who received 16 per cent of the votes has had more say in the Parliament than the honourable member who got 80 per cent of the votes. He interjects constantly. The principle of universal suffrage was enshrined in the Federal Constitution of 1901. But attempts to frustrate the effective implementation of this widely accepted basis of democracy continue to this day led by every member of the Australian Country Party and their lap dogs along at their heels, the members of the Liberal Party supporting them. One way of judging whether we have a fair and democratic electoral system is to relate the percentage of votes won by a party to the seats gained by it at an election. I have a table prepared for me by the Chief Electoral Officer, showing a comparison of results of the last 4 elections for this House. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Prices up to a maximum of $4,250 per acre have been paid. 
From 8 miles to 11 miles. 
The market values per acre for available alternative land and the distances from Perth City are: 
 It is the right of any honourable member to raise a question of privilege. It is also the right of any honourable member to move a motion. It is also the right of this House to debate that motion and either accept it or reject it. Therefore the procedure adopted today is in conformity with the Standing Orders of this Parliament. As is our right, this Parliament will decide whether or not the matter raised is a matter for reference to the Privileges Committee. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who should know the Standing Orders, came into this Parliament completely unprepared to substantiate his case before honourable members. 
I ask the House to judge. He had more runners around him than has SP bookie as he made his speech. He did not even have May's 'Parliamentary Practice' open, which is the gospel for people putting motions of this kind. He had to look up the reference. He had the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  standing by his side. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  then came up to him. The Leader of the Opposition was confounded when we asked him to substantiate his allegations in relation to this matter which he wants referred to the Privileges Committee. Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that there were lengthy periods when nothing was happening in the House as the Leader of the Opposition fobbed through his papers looking for an argument to support his motion to refer to the Privileges Committee a matter affecting the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the first citizen of this country. The very least that we could have expected from the Leader of the Opposition was respect to this House and a properly prepared case instead of one in relation to which he expected to rise to his feet, like all Liberals do, and ask the House to accept his view, endorse it accordingly, and bring forth no doubt some prearranged verdict that has been worked out already in the Liberal Party caucus. 
The House will not accept that, and neither will the Government. We will debate this issue and we will see precisely whether it should be referred to the Privileges Committee. It was not until I asked the Leader of the Opposition to read the article on which he was basing his motion that he sent away for the newspaper which he said had printed the things that he wanted the Parliament to discuss. He did not have the newspaper with  him.  He did not read the article before being asked to do so, and he did not know in which newspaper the article had appeared. He then said: 'Here it is'. The Leader of the Country Party rustled one up from somewhere. What a fantasy it is to adopt this kind of approach. 
A matter of privilege at any time arising shall, until disposed of, or unless the debate on a motion thereon is adjourned, suspend the consideration and decision of every other question: Provided that precedence over other business shall not. be given to any motion if, in the opinion of the  Speaker,  a prima facie case of breach of privilege has not been made out or the matter has not been raised at the earliest opportunity. 
To me that simply means that when my Leader first raised this matter this morning, you immediately ruled,  Mr Speaker,  that the matter for debate should proceed forthwith. The assumption, on my part at least, was that there was no possible doubt in your mind as the  Speaker  of this House that a prima facie case had been made out for a breach of privilege. If I have misinterpreted your ruling I would be grateful if you would inform me why you allowed this matter to proceed if you had not made up your mind that a prima facie case of a breach of privilege had been made. If in the circumstances you had come to such decision, I am astonished and confounded by the position which the Leader of the House has indicated the Government will obviously adopt on this issue. 
What happened in this House has been reported in the Press, and enlarged upon by the Prime Minister in discussions with 
Press representatives who have asked questions of him. The Prime Minister was not the first person to take this matter into the public square, as it were. I shall refer to that later. Let us look at the events - they have been reported, as the Leader of the Opposition has said - which occurred in this chamber last Wednesday night. They did little credit to the Liberal Party and a considerable amount to the Country Party. The honourable member for Barker was accused by the Prime Minister in this House the other night of doing certain things. I shall quote from the newspaper clippings I have in front of me, particularly one headed: 'You are foul mouthed, the PM told'. The Prime Minister is reported as having, during the course of the debate, turned to the Leader of the Opposition and said: 'Let us both withdraw', which the Leader of the Opposition refused to do. The following report subsequently appeared in a newspaper: 
The House of Representatives broke into uproar yesterday When a Liberal MP angrily told the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  he was arrogant and foul mouthed. 

 Dr Forbes (Liberal, SA) said  Mr Whitlam  was masquerading as a statesman. 

 Mr Whitlam had said of him during Question Time: It's what he puts in his guts that's rooted him'. 

 Dr Forbes glared at the Prime Minister and added: I want to put this statement on record so that the Australian people will know what an arrogant foulmouth this person who masquerades as a statesman is'. 
That is hardly Geelong Grammar language either, is it? That was from a person who has accused the Prime Minister of foul language. I remember that later in the course of that debate he leaned across the table to me and shook his fist - both of them, I think - and said: 'You will get yours, Daly. You will keep. We are after you. You will know what is coming to you'. I do not put any judgment on his condition, but he was certainly bewildered. I was frightened by his approach. In fact, I felt like appealing to you,  Mr Speaker.  But then the honourable member- 
What I am saying is that the honourable member for Barker did not keep to this House the argument that developed in it. I have in front of me an article which appeared in the section headed 'In Federal Parliament' in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on Friday, 16 November, entitled 'Angry exchanges outside chamber'. It states: 

 Mr Whitlam then rose and walked from the House chamber into the Government corridor, which leads to the Prime Ministerial suite. 

 Dr Forbes followed and called down the corridor: Whitlam, you are a filthy bastard'. 
What high school language. He is complaining. Mind you, this was said in the passageway. The article continues: 

 Mr Whitlam made no immediate reply, but watched as  Dr Forbes  turned and collided with  Mr J.  Riordan . . . 
The honourable member for Phillip. This is what happened the next morning. The article goes on: 

 Mr Whitlam said to a nearby member of his staff: Look at him, he is still staggering'. 
Interviewed after the incident,  Dr Forbes  said the implication that he had drunk too heavily was completely untrue*. 
He said: 'I was very angry because of this allegation. It was a dirty trick, it was untrue*. 
He went on to say a few other things. Later he went on television and radio and in interviews to the newspapers and gave terrific publicity to this matter. Now he and the Leader of the Opposition are complaining because the Prime Minister has answered these allegations in response to Press inquiries that came up from time to time. I do not pass any judgement on the honourable member's attitude on that night. But the Leader of the Opposition went to great pains to defend him. I have in front of me an article which appeared in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' on Friday, 16 November, which states: 
Outside the House,  Dr Forbes  said he had had no more to drink at the reception for  Mr Kirk  than he usually did. 
I always have a couple of drinks before dinner', he said. 
But sometimes they act quicker than usual. This matter was taken into the public square by the honourable member himself and by members of the Opposition. To those who are complaining about the conduct of the Prime Minister, I say: What about the appearances of the honourable member for Barker on television and radio to give great publicity to this matter? He is not the offended man. He is not the gentleman who is humiliated by all of this. He wanted to make great political capital out of it. Have honourable members ever heard anything like what was said by the Leader of the Opposition today? He said that he raised this in a non-political way. Could anybody believe such a statement? Of course he could not. Honourable members opposite do not seek to raise other matters that bring this House into disrepute. I did not hear them citing the case involving the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  who swung punches in King's Hall the other night and missed every time. 
 Mr Speaker,  I was just instancing the double standards of the Leader of the Opposition. Members on this side of the Parliament have continually been described in the House as Fascists and Communists. The Minister for Environment and Conservation - 
 Yes - Nazis. There is no desire to do anything for us in respect of that matter. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is sleeping once more over there. I have not taken offence at the remark that he made about me on IS November 1973. It is reported in Hansard as follows: 
I think that earlier today I made a slip of the tongue. I understand it has been corrected in Hansard but I thought I should properly report this to the House. It was the Leader of the House whose condition I thought was partly responsible for the confusion last night. 
I did not see any non-political person opposite wanting to refer that statement to the Committee of Privileges to protect my sobriety and integrity. Of course not. There is a double standard applying on the other side of the chamber. If honourable members run right through the pattern, they will find that this applies right throughout the situation. Every time a member is insulted or offended by something that is said in this place are we to have that matter referred to the Committee of Privileges? Is every member here so sensitive that he takes offence on every such occasion? What protection is an individual who runs to the Press, radio and television and who says to the 
Prime Minister 'You are a foul mouthed b- so and so' entitled to? His conduct is reprehensible. He is the person who ought to be investigated. He walked down the Government corridor of the Parliament and physically threatened the Prime Minister of this country. There must be serious doubts if he knew what he was doing at that time. 
This gentleman now wants this matter referred to the Privileges Committee. Of course, he will be supported by honourable members on his side of the Parliament. All they seek to do is to make political capital out of it. But if I turned up the records of the Parliament and indicated what has been said about members on this side of the chamber the Privileges Committee would be in session all the time. That is what would happen if we inquired into everything that has been looked upon as an insult to or a reflection upon people. I have not time to read from all the newspapers I have here. But honourable members can judge from the headings themselves. One states 'Angry outburst outside the chamber'. Another states ' "You are foul mouthed", the PM told'. Yet another states 'Liberal front bencher calls PM "A filthy b- "'. What a good education that is for the up and coming kids of this country from this once great Party whose members come from the gay, great schools. They were the great public school boys. These are the people who are attacking the language of the Prime Minister. At least the words that the Prime Minister used were well couched and thought out carefully. They were used only under great provocation and questioning from the Press because of the conduct of the honourable member for Barker in taking an internal fight into the public forum. 
Today, honourable members opposite seek to escape responsibility for their actions and the publicity that has been given to the matter. I am sorry that I do not have unlimited time to talk on this motion. The members of the Party that raised it are continually saying that they do not have the time to debate great issues in the Parliament. Yet, with all the legislation confronting us and with all the great issues to be decided they raise a cheap political stunt to protect a member, so they say, who is responsible for any publicity that arose out of this incident. Furthermore, whatever might be said, what ought to be inquired into in the Parliament is the conduct of a lot of the members of the Liberal Party on that night who behaved irresponsibly in a way that brought little credit on them or their Party. They degraded Parliament and brought it into disrepute by their conduct,led very ably by the honourable member for Barker. 
There is no reason why on this occasion we should go further into this matter. The other night the Leader of the Opposition quoted from 'Australian Senate Practice' written by  Mr Odgers,  the  Clerk  of the Senate. I do not have time to read all of the relevant material. But he ought to have gone on a little and completely destroyed his argument by reading the concluding paragraph. In the view of the Government, no case has been made out for this matter to be referred to the Privileges Committee. This is a cheap political stunt designed to protect the honourable member for Barker for conduct that he must regret at this time. I believe that the House has wasted enough time on on issue like this. I formally move: 
That the question be now put. 
Government members - Aye! 
Opposition members - No! 
Question put - 
That the question be now put. 
For the information of honourable members and in accordance with an undertaking the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  gave recently in answer to questions by the honourable members for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  andFlinders  (Mr Lynch),  I present a statement making available further information on the re-shaping of defence activities. 
I present the report by the Tariff Board on the following subject 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  was advised behind the Speaker's chair by me this morning that because of the hold-up tactics of the Opposition this debate would run until 2 speakers from each side had spoken. There is a quite simple solution to this. The Government side of the House is not dominated by the Country Party, even if the Liberal Party is. In future- 
You know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  some of that language should almost go to the Privileges Committee. I just advise the Opposition, in order that there will not be any misunderstanding, that in future the arrangements will be put in writing. 
As we evidently cannot trust the one on the Opposition side responsible for making arrangements concerning the business of the House, or the people behind him, so that there will be no doubt whatever in future as to what the arrangements are and so that honourable members opposite will be fully advised, let me inform them that in one hour from now the debate on the estimates for the Department of Immigration will be finished. That arrangement ought to be understood. 
I suggest that the order agreed to by the Committee on 12 September for the consideration of proposed expenditure be varied by postponing the consideration of the proposed expenditures for the defence services. 
As I might not be present when the event occurs, might I crave the indulgence of the House to ask that, when the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  speaks tonight, no honourable member rises until the period of 20 minutes has expired, in view of the fact that it is his maiden speech in this Parliament. 
 Mr Speaker- 
Very well. 
I do not intend to enter into a debate that was finished this morning. I am completely at a loss to know who the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  is speaking about. All the sins are not on this side of the Parliament in regard to that matter, and members of the Opposition who want respect should watch their own language. We resent being called fascists and communists and all kinds of things by people opposite who then talk about purity of speech and all those things. 
We copped it, as the honourable member for Newcastle has said, for 23 years and you have only got a fraction back of anything you gave to us. If the honourable member for Barker and others want to be respected, they should watch their own conduct. I will not go into the matter any further. I think that subject was disposed of. I make my own judgment on the occurrence of last Wednesday and on which I pass no judgment now. 
All I rise to say at this stage is that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  the other night made a statement in regard to the use of cars and lack of facilities for members to get to Parliament because of delays. The honourable member has since explained to me that he was not quite fully informed on the matter. I accept his explanation and exclude tonight his criticism of the use of Ministers' cars at that time. I want to say something to the House tonight and I ask all honourable members to listen to it otherwise they might be walking to work. It is said that there are delays in cars arriving for members of a morning. Before the honourable member for Angas raised this matter, it was brought to my attention by the Transport Officer,  Mr Gordon  Pike. The Transport Officer for the House of Representatives has asked me if I would bring to the attention of members and senators the importance of being punctual when cars are ordered for their use. 
It has been noted in recent weeks that members have kept cars waiting for up to a quarter of an hour or more, and in so doing have completely disrupted further bookings made with the Transport Department and kept other members waiting for long periods. It should also be appreciated that because of demands on the Transport Department, a form of shuttle service has to be instituted. If members or senators are not ready, of course, a certain amount of disorganisation occurs. It would be appreciated, therefore, by all concerned if members and senators would co-operate and be punctual and not keep cars waiting. 
In view of the honourable member's comments that they were delayed indefinitely and it was for purposes which were quite wrong, as I have since ascertained, I have instructed the department that in future unless members or senators of the parties are ready at the time for which the car is ordered, vehicles are not to wait, and those who are delayed can take their chance and await further transport if and when it is available. In other words, all members of the Senate and this place, from both sides of the Parliament, when they order cars to take them to the Parliament of a morning will need to be on time otherwise the cars will not wait. It is no concern of Ministers that members have been kept waiting; it is because of members' own reluctance to be on time. These are facilities that are given to members in order to bring them to their place of work at the appropriate time. I now formally advise the House - I shall circulate a copy of my speech to all honourable members - that if they order a car for say 8.45 or 9.45 and they are not on time, the car will not wait there. That will overcome criticism in this Parliament of transport and other matters. No service in the world can cater for members who order cars in great numbers and then are not on time. I ask all Whips and all members of the Parliament to take a note of this. Any inconvenience caused in the future will be entirely due to the members concerned. 
Just from memory I cannot give the honourable member the exact cost, but I have it available and I may be able to give it to him before the end of question time. The second part of his question will be taken into consideration. Naturally his request will be fulfilled because when legal men of his great capacity put these matters forward we always like to give them the consideration to which they are entitled. 
I seek the indulgence of the House to answer in full a question asked earlier today by the honourable member for Petrie. The answer to his question is on page 3326 of Hansard of 14 November 1973, in the record of the debate on the Constitution alteration legislation. As all the figures are there, in order to make the answer to the honourable member's question complete, I seek leave to have them incorporated in Hansard. 
Over the years, the demands of the Australian people to update their ageing Constitution have been frustrated by the over-rigid requirements which must be met before change can occur. Of 26 proposed amendments put .to the people since Federation only five have met these requirements. Those passed related to Senate elections - submitted in 1906; State debtssubmitted in 1910; again State debts - submitted in 1928; social services - submitted in 1947; and the more recent one concerning the counting of Aborigines in reckoning our population, which was submitted to the people in 1967. 
We believe that .the existing provisions relating to the passage of a referendum, which require a majority of the electors voting in 4 of the 6 States, as well as an overall majority of the total voters of Australia, are too rigid - more rigid, indeed, .than could ever have been contemplated by the founding fathers. However, these provisions can clearly lead to anomalous results. It is possible, for example, for a referendum to be supported by a twothirds majority of the entire Australian electorate - a  cleaT  mandate - and yet fail to be passed because of the geographical distribution of these electors over this great continent. This proposed amendment, if approved by the people at the referendum, will mean that future amendments to the Constitution will require the approval of the majority of the voters in only 3 of the 6 States, in addition to the existing requirement of approval by a majority of the voters of Australia as a whole. The practical effect of this proposed change will be to bring the requirements closer to a simple majority than the present requirement, which in effect is a two-thirds majority of the States. 
This is not a radical change. It will not of itself usher in a new era of easy altreation to the Constitution. In fact, had these provisions applied since federation only 2 additional referendums would have been carried. They are the organised marketing of primary products and the industrial employment referendums of 1946. These received an overall vote of 50.57 per cent and 50.3 per cent respectively but were supported in 3 States only, namely, New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia. On only one occasion has a proposed amendment been approved by more than 50 per cent of the Australian electorate as a whole but carried in less than 3 States. That was in 1937 when the aviation referendum was not passed. It was carried in Victoria and Queensland only, yet it received the overall support of the Australian electorate - a 53.56 per cent vote in favour. 
In 1900 the great constitutional authorities of the day Quick and Garran - I hope the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  will see that my legal knowledge is improving - had this to say at page 993 of their book entitled 'Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth': 
The preparation of a proposed amendment and its approval by an absolute majority of members in each House, or by an absolute majority of members twice in one House, is merely a preliminary act in the amending procedure. The principle element in the process is the submission of the proposal to the electors. 
This is precisely what the Government proposes to do - that is, to let the electors determine whether they want to ease the rather rigid requirements which have hampered the updating of this 72-year old document. 
The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1958 and again in 1959 - as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stated - recognised the vital interest of the people in proposed Constitutional alterations. The Prime Minister outlined the views of this all-party Committee in his second reading speech, but I merely quote the first few lines: 
If a clear majority of the electors who vote at a referendum are in favour of a proposed law, their will should not be frustrated because seperate majorities of electors have not been obtained in a majority of the States. It is, in the Committee's opinion, more in accord with democratic principle and the developments since Federation that it should be sufficient to obtain separate majorities in at least one half of the number of States. 
This amendment is long overdue. It will bring the Constitution more into line with the social and political realities of this day and age. 
The second purpose of this Bill is to give electors of the Australian Capital Territory, including Jervis Bay and the Northern Territory, the right to vote at constitution referendums. A survey of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory population over the period 190M973 shows the changes that have taken place. I state them for the House. In 1901, the population in the Northern Territory was 4,81-1. The Australian Capital Territory, being in New South Wales at that time, no figures are available. On 30 June this year, the population in the Northern Territory totalled 95,600 and in the Australian Capital Territory 168,400, a grand total of 264,000. Projected populations for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory indicate that by 1990 there will be 745,000 persons in the Australian Capital 
Territory, and 275,000 persons in the Northern Territory, a total of 1,020,000. By the year 2000, there will be 1,300,000 persons in the Australian Capital Territory alone, if present population trends continue. These figures are provided by the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Northern Territory. 
This fundamental growth and change indicates that in the future, unless this change is made, countless thousands of Australians will be denied their right to vote at the ballot box for changes in the Constitution. It is incredible that this Labor Government should have to take steps to remove the undemocratic, anomalous and unnecessary provision in the Constitution which denies this fundamental right at this date to 130,700 Australian voters. It should have been removed years ago. It would have been removed years ago but for the tardiness and indecision of previous governments, and that is a charitable view of their inactivity. This contempt of the political rights of the citizens of the Territories was seen again recently in the opposition to our attempts to obtain Senate representation for the people of these areas - the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
Surely, the Australian Country Party must support a referendum to ask the people to give a vote in referendums to all people of our mainland Territories - the Australian Capital Territory, including Jervis Bay, and the Northern Territory. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has a question on the notice paper and continues to make weird noises in support of this proposal. Of course, this does not mean that they will support the legislation because we have the example of their vote on the Territory senators legislation. In this House on the first occasion they voted with the Government in favour of it, and then their counterparts in another place voted to defeat the legislation. It was almost a Laurel and Hardy production. Of course, the honourable member for the Northern Territory was the leader of the band in this sham show of support. 
Then, on the second occasion, the Country Party in this House and the honourable member for the Northern Territory again expressed support for the proposal - on the voices, mind you; they would not divide - but again rejected it in another place. This, of course, is sham fighting. The Country Party cannot have it both ways. It is a case of put up or shut up. 
The Country Party and its Northern Territory member scream for more representation for country districts and in this House support legislation designed for this purpose. Then, in another place, by the ruthless use of numbers, the same Country Party rejects the proposal. They cannot have it both ways. Now they are being asked to let the people decide the issue, and I suggest that they give up their trapeze acts and vote in accordance with what they say are their established political principles. I am aware that Country Party Ministers did make representations on 2 occasions to the then Liberal-Country Party coalition Government in support of this proposal but, of course, their views went unheeded and they died on the vine in their earnest endeavours. 
There are no sound reasons why the electors of these Territories should not have a voice in referendums, and there are good reasons why this right should be extended to them. The political rights of all Australians are diminished while some of our citizens are denied the right of fully participating in the governing of the nation. It would be an indictment of our democratic system of government to allow this discrimination to continue on the basis of geography. 
The restriction of the right to vote in constitutional referendums to the citizens of the States is a consequence of the desire of the framers of our Constitution to protect the small States. But they could not have envisaged the growth that has taken place, and will continue to take place, in the Territories. Certainly, it would not have been their intention to disenfranchise at this date 130,700 Australian citizens and, in later years, thousands more. Again, we are reminded that Quick and Garran identified the qualified electors as the custodians of the delegated sovereignty of the Commonwealth. 
Our proposal is that the votes of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory electors be included in the national aggregate vote. This would not only mean that the referendum result would be more democratic, it would also give a better national reflection of the views of the Australian people. Further, it in no way infringes on the principle that the States have a separate interest to be protected with respect to constitutional change. 
The present situation is not only undemocratic and archaic; it is also anomalous. Not all Constitutional referendums directly involve the interests of the States, or the powers oi State governments. Surely issues such as the rights of individuals, or the nature of parliamentary government, are of vital concern to all Australian citizens. What possible justification could there be for excluding residents in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory from expressing an opinion on questions which affect them at least as much as other Australians? For many years, the citizens of the Territories have demanded this right to vote in referendums. Their claims were strongly put at the time of the last referendum in 1967 when clearly they felt very deeply, as did all Australians, about the rights of the Aboriginal people. 
The citizens of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory merely seek the same rights as other Australians. To a great many residents who come here from other States, it is a shock to learn that they are denied a basic democratic right, once they cross the artificial frontier. These electors do not seek any special political privilege. They have taxation commitments, defence responsibilities and other obligations similar to those enjoyed by the people of the States. They have the same interests in the working of the Australian Constitution as other Australian citizens. It is high time this anomalous discrimination perpetuated under Liberal-Country Party governments ended. 
All this legislation does is to seek the approval of the Parliament to give the Australian people the right to say whether their fellow men and women in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, including Jervis Bay, shall have the right to exercise their vote in referendums. Surely no democrat can oppose this proposition. Surely no person who believes in democracy can be opposed to it. It should receive the support of all fair-minded citizens, and in view of that I commend the legislation to the House. 
 I move: 
That the question be now put. 
 Mr Speaker,  I require the question to be put forthwith. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Australian Fire Board for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
16.5 million square feet. 
The Department of Services and Property is not responsible for keeping a record of office space occupied by statutory authorities and commissions. Questions relating to such occupancies should be directed to the Ministers concerned. 
and (4) I am reluctant to authorise the time end expense which would be involved in compiling the information requested by the right honourable member. The magnitude of the task is illustrated by the fact that the Government currently occupies for office accommodation purposes about 1,200 buildings in all States. Due to the neglect of the Government of which he was a member some departments occupy six or seven buildings in capital cities - this of course is most inefficient. 
If the right honourable gentleman is interested in a particular aspect of accommodation occupied by a department I will examine the matter to see what information can he provided. 
These projections change frequently and it would be misleading at this time to quote a figure. Office accommodation requirements for June 1974 for individual departments depend upon projections of individual departments staffing requirements which are not held by the Department of Services and Property. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The amendment to the Customs Act proposed by this Bill is designed to permit complete application of the provisions of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. I think the House will agree that I am in a new field tonight. The Minister for the Environment and Conservation,  Dr Moss  Cass, recently announced that the Australian Government had decided to sign the Convention. At that time the Minister foreshadowed amendments to customs legislation which would prohibit international trade in those species covered by the Convention. Contracting parties to the Convention are obliged to control importation or exportation of specimens to which the Convention applies. The import control is required to apply equally in respect of any such specimens which are introduced from the sea. 
The authority, given respectively by sections 50 and 112 of the Customs Act, to prohibit by regulation the importation or exportation of goods provides adequate basis for the imposition of import and export restrictions in terms of the Convention. I hope that that is clear to the House. However, a somewhat anomalous position arises in that section 131a of the Customs Act specifically exempts from the control of the Customs fish and other produce of the sea landed by Australian-registered fishing boats operating out of Australian ports. It is necessary to qualify this provision to make it quite clear that exemption from the exercise of control by the Customs authorities does not apply in relation to any specimen of a marine species the importation of which is subject to prohibition or restriction under the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations; that is, to conform with the provisions of the Convention. That should be clear to all honourable members. The Bill now before the House simply makes that necessary qualification. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Relocation of the Department of Social Security is under consideration. No commitment has been made. 
The current rental being paid for accommodation for the Department of Social Security is $1.75 per square foot per annum. Rental for alternative accommodation is under negotiation but is not even remotely near the figure suggested by the honourable member. 
Existing accommodation is entirely unsuitable for access by aged persons. It is located on the first Boor of an old movie theatre. 
A thorough investigation has been made of all accommodation available in the Fountain Plaza area but none is considered suitable for the Department of Social Security having regard to its requirements such as ground floor accommodation and easy access for the public. 
 Mr Speaker,  like the honourable member for Hindmarsh I have keen anticipation. Of course that makes me, like him, so outstanding. Consequently I anticipated that a question of this nature might be asked today. I should like to advise the honourable member that I hope it will be possible to finish the business of the House by the end of next week. It has been a lengthy session and I know that some members are feeling the strain. I know also that many members have commitments in their electorates and elsewhere in the subsequent week and it would be most inconvenient for them to have to forgo those arrangements. 
Yesterday the Prime Minister said he thought it likely we would be sitting for an additional week. I am a more optimistic fellow than the Prime Minister and I am hoping to avoid that. However, it will depend upon a number of things. First and foremost, it will depend upon co-operation. We must get through the legislative program before the House rises, irrespective of what happens. If honourable members opposite choose to employ delaying tactics or to debate at length measures which are not in dispute they will have to bear the consequences of longer sittings. Perhaps I should say in fairness that that applies equally to members on this side of the House. 
As honourable members know, the Bill to implement the Government's new health scheme is to be introduced tomorrow. Naturally, we will want to provide adequate debating time for it next week and obviously this will be a factor in determining whether we can complete our business by the end of the week. If the prophets are right, those who miss out the first time will get a second go. I suppose we must also expect that those in another place will not always be as co-operative as we hope they will be. It is largely in the hands of honourable members as to how long we sit. Lengthy speaking and time wasting tactics will serve only to ensure Christmas in Canberra. Honourable members can be assured that, in the event of the need arising for the consideration of important legislation, the Government will arrange for the House to sit into the following week, and longer if necessary. That is, the week commencing 10 December. For my part, I am confident that we will finish next Thursday night. That is the objective of the Government and it is to be done without attempting to curtail debate, by giving adequate time for proper consideration of the measures before us. I think that, with sensible co-operation on a number of minor measures, this House ought to be able to rise on Thursday next week. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Air Navigation Charges Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow mat course to be followed. 
 Mr Speaker,  I should like the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in relation to this legislation. Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering that Bill, the Albury-Wodonga Development (Financial Assistance) Bill, the Growth Centres (Financial Assistance) Bill and the Land Commissions (Financial Assistance) Bill as they are all associated measures. Separate questions might be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I require that the question be put forthwith. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Debate resumed. 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to the answer I gave on 7 November (Hansard, page 2970) and to the Prime Minister's answer to his Question Without Notice on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
The Special Minister of State has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
See my reply to question No. 1307. 
I want to deal, firstly, with the comments of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who has a good knowledge of the Land Acquisition Act because he administered it for some considerable time. In regard to the amendment that he proposes to move, which provides for the tabling of a list of land acquisitions each 21 days, or 30 days when the House is sitting, in principle I have no objection to it, and I am prepared to give it appropriate consideration. I only qualify that, as the honourable member did, on the basis that it will be a list of acquisitions, and the vendors might not wish prices to be disclosed, at least at that time. Of course, I would like to look further at this aspect. But I assure the honourable members that the matter will be carefully considered, and in principle I have no disagreement with it. By the time the legislation is presented in another place I will have had the opportunity to give full consideration to the proposal. In my present frame of mind I can see no reason why it should not be accepted. 
I have also advised the honourable member of the number of corporations that are to be excluded from the provisions of the proposed new section. He is aware of them. There is a variety of reasons for excluding them. I should also like to mention to him that any acquisitions for the Cities Commission will be undertaken by the Department of Services and Property. That is a statutory authority, and it is listed amongst those for which we will take appropriate action. Similarly, the National Pipeline Authority comes within this category. But acquisitions for lands commissions which have been set up in each State, as the honourable member knows, will be effected by those commissions or by the States concerned. Consequently, I think that to that extent there is no reason for us to be at variance on the question. I think the honourable member is also aware that there is no ulterior motive behind the proposed amendments to the Act. The Bill has been introduced in order to improve an Act that has not been amended since it was introduced in 1955. I think that the proposed amendments will bring about desirable improvements. 
In regard to the speech of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  what he advocated today was not the policy of the previous Government in respect of the matters that he mentioned. I am extremely doubtful whether there is substance for making any change on the basis that he suggested. For instance, the Commonwealth can acquire land only on just terms, under the Constitution and by virtue of section 31 of the present Act. If land is not acquired on what is considered to be just terms, every citizen so affected has the right to apply to the courts for just terms to be fixed. The final decision as to whether land has been acquired on just terms rests with the courts, and I do not think we can quibble with that. 
I point out also for the benefit of the honourable member that interest is not part of the compensation paid by the Commonwealth. The compensation is determined at the date of acquisition having regard to the value of the property at that time. For the life of me, I cannot see how, if the Commonwealth desires to reach an agreement with a person or to acquire land today for a given purpose, the compensation can be fixed 1, 2, 3 or 5 years hence, as the case might be. Interest is payable on outstanding claims from the date of acquisition, and compensation at the date of acquisition must be the just price. I think that if the honourable member were buying a house today and if settlement did not take place for 3 months, he would be very upset if those from whom he was buying the house wanted to be paid the inflated price, which prevailed at the time of actual settlement. That is just not a business proposition. The date of acquisition is the date on which the just price should be paid. We pay, as no doubt did the previous Government, an advance as required on compulsory acquisition before finality on the purchase price is reached. Only today I have authorised the approval of an advance of $80,000 to a person in Queensland whose land is being acquired and who is seeking a higher price than the Commonwealth is offering. So all in all, the person concerned is well protected by the Act. He has his recourse to the courts, and in every way I think a reasonable cover is provided. Whilst realising the sincerity of the honourable member's approach, I am not hopeful that we can meet his wishes in respect of this matter. 

 Mr WILSON (Sturt)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I move: 
After clause 9, insert the following new clause: 9a. After section 66 of the Principal Act the following section ls inserted: "66a. (1) Subject to sub-section (2) and except as otherwise approved by the Minister, the acquisition, including acquisition by agreement, of land required for the purposes of a corporation incorporated by a law of Australia or of a Territory -(whether made before or after the commencement of this section) shall be effected under this Act. "(2) This section does not apply in relation to - 
a corporation that is a company or an incorporated association, society or body of trustees; or 
such other corporations as are specified by the -Minister by notice in the Gazette to be corporations in relation to which this section does not apply. "(3) Without prejudice to the obligation of corporations in relation to which this section applies not to acquire land otherwise than in accordance with this section, this section shall not be taken to invalidate an acquisition of land otherwise than in accordance with this section".'. 
Honourable members will recall that in my second reading speech I foreshadowed that I would move an amendment to the Bill to the effect that the acquisition of land and interests in land on behalf of the Australian Government statutory authorities would be undertaken under the Lands Acquisition Act. It was mentioned that the amendment would be introduced as a further measure to stabilise the land market and to eliminate practices which lead to excessive rentals and land prices. There have been a number of cases where competition between Australian Government departments and statutory corporations has led to excessive rentals being paid by the Australian Government for accommodation. In consequence, the Government directed that competitive bidding between departments and statutory corporations in the land and property market should be eliminated and that the Department of Services and Property should in future conduct all negotiations. Clearly, amendment of all Acts which concurrently allow statutory corporations to make their own acquisitions or arrange their own rentals would not be practicable for a long time to come, although recent amendments to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1973 and to the Australian National Airlines Commission Act 1973 have included appropriate amendments of this nature. Under the amendment, which is a further measure to stabilise the land market and eliminate practices which lead to excessive rentals and land prices, the Minister for Services and Property will undertake acquisitions of land and interests in land on behalf of Australian Government departments and statutory corporations in the future. 
 The point raised by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  is a valid one. It is, in a wider field, the reason for this amendment. I can advise him that the exemptions shown on the list I gave him were made only after very careful scrutiny. For instance, the purchase of Defence Service homes is an important commercial enterprise with very special implications. Other authorities such as the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Commonwealth Trading Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank and TransAustralia Airlines are trading enterprises in keen competition with other banks or private instrumentalities. Others, like the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority, have few or no land transactions. The exemptions that have been listed and their activities will be scrutinised carefully. If there is any reason in line with what the former Minister has said in respect of this matter why the exemptions should be withdrawn, it will be done. 
Similarly, if it is considered that other organisations should be exempted, that is a matter that will be considered also. But I assure the honourable member that what he had in mind is also well in the mind of the Government. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to the answer I gave on 12 November (Hansard, page 3172) and to the Prime Minister's answer to his Question Without Notice on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
I require that the question be put forthwith without debate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
by leave - The House will meet again on Tuesday next at 11 a.m., the usual time, and the sitting will continue at the usual sitting hours until the business before the House is concluded. I am unable to indicate when the House will rise. 
The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  has moved: 
That, in the opinion of this House, Australia's national anthem should not be changed without a total vote of the Australian people on suggested alternative anthems including 'God Save the Queen'. 
He has not spoken in support of that motion today, but he has modified it. He spoke about every Australian of voting age. The motion does not say that. It refers to a total vote of the Australian people. He referred next to those people electorally enrolled. There is nothing in his motion to that effect, if we support this motion today we would be voting to require a total vote of the Australian people to decide the question - that is, every man, woman and child in the country. It means the children, the Aborigines, the criminals in gaols, the persons in mental institutions and members of the Armed Forces at home and abroad. In fact, it means everybody in the community. Although I lack the honourable member's education I know that 'total' means everything. 
I will deal later with a number of other matters in regard to the suggested alternatives. I would have liked the honourable member to tell me of any precedents for his suggestion. Those honourable members on the other side of the House who are clamouring for a referendum on this issue, and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  who has just spoken, could not give a hang about prices and incomes, but they want to vote on the national anthem. They want to spend $2m of the Australian people's money to have a referendum on an anthem. They said that prices and incomes do not matter and every honourable member sitting opposite voted against every referendum proposal we have brought to the Parliament this year. What a fantasy this motion is. What do they want to save? 
They do not even know the origin of the song they are trying to save. This is the origin of 'God Save the Queen': In the song books and hymn books we find the tune of 'God Save the King' ascribed sometimes to John Bull, sometimes to Henry Carey and sometimes to  Dr Arne.  Other books are wisely non-commital and state simply: 'Source unknown'. One fact is known with precision; the date and occasion of a famous public performance, supposed to be the first public performance of the complete song, one which caused it to leap into popularity. This was on 28 September 1745. It was the year of the second Jacobite rebellion. It was realised that a Jacobite invasion of England was inevitable. So the Whigs, the anti-Jacobites and those who held that George II with all his disadvantages was better for the country than another James, realised that a good song was wanted immediately, a song to steady the popular feeling and to rally the adherents of the House of Hanover. So at first sight it seems that from somewhere suddenly emerged 'God Save the King'. As I mentioned, the origin of both the words and the melody are obscure. Earliest copies of the words appeared in a gentlemen's magazine in 1745. The honourable members who want to sing 'God Save the Queen' never look at the second stanza. If you had a piano,  Mr Speaker,  I would sing it for the audience. This is how the second stanza goes: 
O Lord our God arise 
Scatter her enemies, and make them fall: 
Confound their politics, Frustrate their knavish tricks, 
On Thee our hopes we fix: God save us all. 
But one early version of the words said: 'Frustrate their Popish tricks'. As a good Catholic I could never tolerate that. Actually those words are a long way from the present words. This is the origin of the song that those gentlemen opposite know nothing about but now seek to impose on Australia for all time, irrespective of the future changes of population. 
I mentioned that it has been said that the Government has not consulted the people. With the consent of the House I should like to incorporate in Hansard Press statement No. 76 of 12 April by the Prime Minister on the Australian National Anthem quest. It shows that the Government has consulted the people. 
On 26 January the Prime Minister announced that the public would be invited to submit entries for the words and music for a new national anthem and that the Australian people would be consulted in the final choice. 
As the first stage of this contest, entries are now invited for the words of an anthem. These entries will close on 31 May. Entries may be written without any tune in mind or to the tune of one of the familiar songs which have some claim to being accepted as a national anthem. A selection of texts from among those submitted will be made by a panel of judges and published in a booklet. This will be available to all interested people from the beginning of July. 
Members of the public will then be invited to submit the music and words for an anthem. The music may be set to words written by the composer himself or by a collaborator. If the composer prefers his music may be set to one of the texts chosen for the booklet. Details of this second stage of the contest - the calling and judging of music entries - will be announced early in July. 
It is anticipated that a panel of judges will choose six or more anthems, from which the public will help make a final choice on or before 26 January 1974. Among these six anthems will be at least two familiar or traditional songs. The Australian Council for the Arts, in consultation with the Australian Government, representatives of the media, the ABC and other interested organisations, will determine the method by which the public's preference will be expressed. 
An award of $5,000 will be made to the writer of the words chosen for the national anthem. A similar award will be made to the composer of the music of the anthem, unless the music is that of an already familiar song. Awards of $500 will be made for the words and for the music of any entry selected for the public's consideration. 
Entry forms and details of the conditions of entry may be obtained by sending a stamped addressed envelope to: Australian National Anthem Quest, Australian Council for the Arts, PO Box 373, North Sydney, N.S.W. 2060. 
A number of people have already submitted entries in consequence of the Prime Minister's announcement of 26 January. Those whose entries have been received by the Australian Council for the Arts will be sent entry forms. Canberra, A.C.T. 
I thank the House. Having said so much, I now get back to the terms of the honourable member's motion. He has suggested that alternative anthems should be considered and put to the Australian people. However, those to be referred to the people have firstly to be decided upon. Who will decide which ones will be submitted to the Australian people? Later I shall give a few examples of songs to which some members of this House probably would subscribe. The ballot paper for such a referendum would be immense if every song proposed were included on it. Suggestions will come from members of this House. If people were required to vote on each proposed anthem an impossible situation would arise. If the anthem were to be selected by referendum, the cost of such a vote would be approximately $2m, and this is on the assumption- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion of notice No. 1 General Business be extended. 
Such a referendum would cost $2m, on the assumption that no pamphlets would need to be printed, as is the case with the referendum on incomes and prices. But surely, if pamphlets had to be issued to list the entries in order, the ballot paper would be mammoth in size. The cost would be tremendous. I think that in many cases, such a ballot paper would not be understood by the Australian people. I ask honourable members: Who will decide what anthems are to be submitted to the people? I ask honourable members to look at the variety of people in this House and variety of views that they hold. I mention some of these songs in a light-hearted vein, but they are most appropriate, and, on top of it all, I am certain that some of these songs would be adopted by some honourable members in this House. 
Naturally, every member of this Parliament would have the right to subscribe to an anthem that might be presented. Any honourable member would have the right to propose a serious anthem or a good anthem, as he wished. As I look at members of the Country Party I think that they would get a mammoth vote for the 'Donkey Serenade'. The former Prime Minister might suggest that the song which should be put on the ballot paper is 'Just One More Chance' or, perhaps, "The Impossible Dream'. Members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party would go for the song Matchmaker'. Would not that be a super one? 
They might like the song with the words: "There was I waiting at the Church' or something similar. Do not put it past them. These songs would bob up. All kinds of suggestions of this type could be made. 
I imagine that my friend, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  might go for 'If I were a Rich Man'. Other songs with similar sentiments might occur to him. The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  might choose the song with the words 'Sugar in the morning, sugar in the evening and sugar at suppertime'. Any of these songs could be suggested as anthems. I am quite certain that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would go for 'Superstar'. Without doubt, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  would get back to 'Gentleman Jim'. Of course, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  - we have heard how good he is - would have as his favourite 'You must have been a beautiful baby*. 
I can imagine the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  proposing Don't fence me in' as the song that he would like best as a national anthem. Unfortunately  Mr Speaker,  to whom I wish to direct these remarks, is absent from the Chair at this time. I would imagine that he would advocate If I had a hammer'. I can imagine that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  would want 'Stand up and fight until you hear the bell'. Without a doubt, the other former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  would choose 'I did it my way'. Can honourable members imagine how the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would like I am the very model of a modern major general'. Would that not appeal to the Australian people? I am sorry that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  who was here a few moments ago, did not stay. I should imagine that his favourite would be 'I am a lonely little petunia in an onion patch'. My slumbering friend opposite, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  would want 'Red sails in the sunset' or perhaps 'Midnight in Moscow'. Some honourable members, in view of recent events, might prefer the song Roll out the barrel'. I think that, collectively, members of the House might vote for 'The pub with no  beeT'.  These sorts of suggestions could be made. Where would we be if all these were submitted? And they might be. 
All kinds of things can occur in verses. Prominent writers submit all kinds of verses for anthems in this and other countries. Some lyrics have been put forward by Phillip Adams, who is well known to all culture lovers and who is, among other things, a leading light in the Australian Council for the Arts. Recently he wrote an article in which he included some lyrics which were written to a melody which appeals to me greatly and which has endeared itself to people throughout the world; that is' The Wearing of the Green'. This is what he wrote: 
I love this ripper country 
Full of funnel-webs and sharks! With  blowies,  big as eagles, 
Where yer car gets booked by narks! Where yer team gets trounced each  Sat'dy 
Where the pubs run out of beer! Where there's  redbacks  on the toilet seat, 
And yer nagged by Germaine Greer! ! ! ! 
He has written those lyrics to the tune of 'The Wearing of the Green'. That is certainly a commentary on some of the anthems submitted in the national competition. The situation is that for a referendum of this kind suggestions could be made in this Parliament and in other places which would bring all manner of verses to light. 
The motion moved by the honourable member for Warringah deserves to be treated with a certain amount of ridicule because it is an impossible proposal embracing, as it does, every man, woman and child voting on every suggestion - good, bad or indifferent - which will be presented to and decided on by the Australian people at tremendous cost. I bring the House back to the fact that we in this Parliament are not rejecting 'God Save the Queen'. It will, I believe, long be sung sincerely by Australians when the Queen is present and on other appropriate occasions. But this nation and its people will, in the future, be acknowledged and saluted by an anthem which is as unmistakably Australian as we ourselves are. The proposal for a new national anthem was clearly enunciated during the pre-election campaign. The action that has been taken is carrying out an unmistakable mandate given by the Australian people. It has been put clearly and concisely. 
The proposal put forward today - a half baked proposal - is designed to gain some form of political support for the honourable member for Warringah. It is put forward in a way in which it could not be accepted by the Government. We oppose it, not with any disrespect to  Her  Majesty or to the anthem but because we believe in a really Australian way of life and we believe in an Australian anthem for the Australian people. I mention again that we are linked with the people of the British Isles by deep and emotional ties. In many instances we share common ancestors. We are inheritors of the same traditions and moral values. We remain their firm friends and allies, as they do to us. This Government has taken action to identify the Queen with this Parliament and the people of Australia in a clear and unequivocal style. She is, for the first time, unmistakable - and by our decision - Queen of Australia. We have heard from  Her  Majesty's lips the pleasure that this decision has given her. We propose to have an Australian anthem for an Australian people. Irrespective of what the Tories opposite say, I believe that every Australian - man, woman and child - will endorse our action as being appropriate in this age of changing times, advancement and Australian nationhood. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Health Insurance Commission Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 As the honourable member has stated, a redistribution of electorates is in progress in Western Australia. Submissions, protests or suggestions have been made to the Commissioners following the publication of the original plans. I understand that at the present time they are still under consideration by the Commissioners. I am not in a position to state when the report will be finished or brought to the House. 
by leave - I move: 
That the Committee of Privileges when considering the matter referred to it on 6 December, have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
The Committee, when undertaking its present inquiry, may wish to have the power granted by the motion, and in accordance with practice the motion is proposed for the concurrence of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Speaker,  I ask leave of the House to move that in relation to the proceedings on the following Bills, so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of all the Bills: The Health Insurance Bill 1973, the Health Insurance Commission Bill 1973, the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bill 1973, the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 and the Sewerage Agreements Bill 1973. 
 I just want to take a few brief minutes- of the valuable time of the House to reply to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Listening to him speak, one would never dream on 4 May 1971 he voted for the guillotine to put through 19 Bills in 17 hours. Without stretching it a bit, I do not think that he allowed adequate time for discussion in Committee. The honourable member growls about the curtailment of debate. He said that he has been restricted in debate on important measures. On 23 November of this year I asked the Parliamentary Library for the honourable member's speaking record in this Parliament. The Library supplied me with an answer. It said that up to 23 November 1973 the honourable member had delivered 84 speeches of which 80 took a total of 14 hours 14 minutes. No estimate of time could be given for the other 4 speeches made on 25 May, 23 August, 5 November and 8 November. The Library also informed me that the points of order that he raised could not be counted. In addition it has lost count of the number of quorums that he has called. Further, the number of divisions that he has called is not known, but there were dozens. The honourable member has made 5 speeches during grievance debates, taking a total of 59 minutes. During adjournment debates he has made 19 speeches, taking a total of 2 hours 32 minutes. Personal explanations and claims of misrepresentation have been excluded from this category. During private members debates he has made one speech taking 30 minutes. A claim of misrepresentation was not included in this time. 
The Library also inform me that the honourable member presented 10 petitions and that be has been refused leave by the Government to speak on a few occasions. It also pointed out that the honourable member made 18 claims of misrepresentation. Fancy the honourable member saying he was gagged. I do not know whether that will help him in his selection, but if they want a reference from me I will tell him that he is fertile but futile. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I declare the following Bills as urgent Bills: Health Insurance Bill 1973, Health Insurance Commission Bill 1973, Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bill 1973, Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973, Sewerage Agreements Bill 1973. 
Question: 
That the Bills be considered urgent Bills. 
Resolved in the affirmative. 
Allotment of Time 
 I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
Health Insurance Bill 1973 - - 
For the second reading until 5 p.m. this day; 
For the Committee stage until 5.15 p.m. this day; and 
For the remaining stages until 5.30 p.m. this day. 
Health Insurance Commission Bill 1973 - 
For all stages of the Bill until 6 p.m. this day. Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bill 1973 - 
For all stages of the Bill, notwithstanding the order of the House of 1 March, until 10.30 p.m. Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 - 
For the second reading until 5.15, Wednesday, 12 December; 
For the remaining stages until 6 p.m., Wednesday, 12 December. 
Sewerage Agreements Bill 1973 - For all stages of the Bill, notwithstanding the order of the House of 1 March, until 10 p.m., Wednesday, 12 December. 
I submit those proposals to the House. On the first measure we believe that adequate time will be given. All over, we have provided for 10 hours of debate. Despite what has been said by a number of speakers from the other side of the House, the arrangements only confirm my view that on every occasion on which we ask for a list of speakers anyone who is able and willing to talk is put on that list. I might say that there were few on the list that he read compared with the number of honourable members on this side of the House who desired to participate in the debate. But in the interests of good government honourable members on this side decided that they would withdraw their claim in order that the legislation might go through and benefit the people of this country. 
The legislation has to be put into effect by 1 June next year. Therefore, the House cannot unduly delay these measures. As I said this morning, the issue that was brought up may well have been important, but it should have been brought up at a time other than in the middle of an important debate on the Bills that we are discussing today. I have moved the motion in order to save the time of the House. In order to give adequate time to those honourable members opposite who may care to participate in the debate, I shall not speak further. 
in reply - I want to close the debate and I will be brief. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  as a former Minister was one of those who put through 19 Bills in 17 hours. Evidently it depends on where one sits as to what are one's principles. I say to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  that I would not make too many appointments for next week either, because he might easily be here with me having the turkey. 
Do not get excited. Do not forget that the Opposition voted early in the session against half an hour's extension of the time of sitting. This Parliament has sat longer than any Parliament since 1918, and honourable members opposite would not have agreed to that. We had to force them to do so by making them deliberate on legislation and stay in this place. I advise honourable members opposite not to get excited about Thursday. That might be the day that does not come. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">New South Wales - The returns of expenses, submitted by some political parties only, do not refer to individual television channels and radio stations. 
<para pgwide="yes">Victoria - The only return of expenses submitted (by the Communist Party of Australia), shows nil expenditure on television and radio stations. 
<para pgwide="yes">Queensland - Only two political parties have submitted returns of expenses. Expenditure in respect of television channels and radio stations is shown on the returns as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See Table A. 
See Table B. 
 I move: 
That the honourable member for Mackellar be suspended from the service of the House. 
Government members - Aye! 
Merry Christmas, Bill. 
 The amendment is the one which was suggested by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  when the Bill was before this chamber. The amendment was inserted in another place. The Bill has been returned in the form in which it was agreed upon in the other place. If the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  requires more information, perhaps he could refer to the speech made by the honourable member for Gippsland a few days ago. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Before I enter into the festive spirit of Christmas may I just for once make a few political comments. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  mentioned that he had been refused leave to speak and that he did not want to clutter up 
Hansard. I think he said he did not want to see it misused. He should know that leave can be granted by the House for an honourable member to incorporate matter in Hansard but if the House refuses leave the honourable member is entitled to read it to the House. That was done today. This was caused by the petty, frightened approach of the Leader of the Opposition. He did not want to hear the truth. He stated that this was unusual. Today I had occasion to see his Party and him indirectly to ask whether the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  could incorporate his speech in Hansard. Firstly I sent him a copy of Hansard dated 28 September 1972 when  Sir Reginald  Swartz, then the Minister for National Development, asked leave to make a ministerial statement on Australia's natural resources of minerals, forest, water and energy. The Labor Party agreed to his incorporating it in Hansard.  His  speech takes up 23 printed pages, much more than the 62 pages of typing that the Prime Minister asked to incorporate today. 
Again, on 15 October 1967, at page 1941 of Hansard the Australian Labor Party when in Opposition gave the then Minister for National Development the opportunity to incorporate 15 pages in Hansard. Today because of his petty, frightened approach to the great record of the Labor Party the petulant, prospective Prime Minister, as he calls himself, did not want to clutter up Hansard. By heavens, it is full of fiction from the last Government. A lot of it was read, and badly read to us. I would prefer members of the Liberal Party to incorporate everything for the simple reason that today they have indicated how frightened they are of the truth. The Prime Minister took 2J hours to read Labor's record, and we have only started. I would have been prepared to give the Leader of the Opposition 2 minutes to state what they had done. Why should he not have that time? There would be one page full and one blank, and anybody could read it in that time, even the Leader of the Opposition. 
So today he was petty, frightened and afraid. He thought he was smart making the leading citizen of this Parliament read a speech for 2 hours. The only thing the Leader of the Opposition did was to cause this Parliament to lose valuable time. That time could have been saved by a commonsense approach. I suggest to him that he exercise the same judgment in Opposition as we did when we realised these things could be done. If a member of this Parliament wants to put something in Hansard there is no way he can be stopped, provided he has the patience and the time to do so. We did not mind taking that time because this was important. I am sorry that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who is not here at the moment, did not ask for leave to speak on that statement today because he has a much higher degree of political integrity than the Leader of the Opposition and  -  I will tell honourable members something else - a lot more common sense. I will admit that he has not much to beat, but he is still in front. 
I thank the Prime Minister for his generous comments about me and about my conduct of the House and parliamentary affairs, because evidently the Opposition forgot. It is nice to know that at least I was remembered by my friends on this side of the Parliament. In any case, I think we can say that we have destroyed the petty approach of the Leader of the Opposition today. The reason why honourable members opposite did not fight it was not that they were not upset about the thing. I doubt whether there are more than a dozen Liberal members anywhere in Canberra at this very moment, and the Leader of the Opposition was not game to call for a division because he knew very well that he would be sitting up there with a few like Brown's cows and nothing else in sight. That is the reason. That is the great fighting Liberal Leader of the Opposition. The fact is that his members will not support him on the last night of the session. They wanted special planes to be on and off like yo-yos so they could get home. The Leader of the Opposition did not protest too greatly tonight, except in that mild way, because if he called a division now there would hardly be a dozen Liberals in the chamber. I exclude the Country Party members because they generally attend to their duties, but most of the Liberals have gone back to their directorates, the multinationals and all those sorts of things. They are out celebrating the great funds they have received this year. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent each of the following Bills being presented and passed through all stages without delay: 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in regard to this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill, the Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill and the Constitution Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution) Bill as they are all associated measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The very mention of the word 'electoral' is enough to send any member of the Australian Country Party, particularly the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  into a frenzy. He states that this is a monstrous proposal by the Australian 'Labor Party to change the electoral system and gerrymander the Australian electorates. He further states that he does not want any change in the system. Neither would 'I if I were he because when I look at the votes received by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  I see that he got in with only 17 per cent of the primary vote. Why should the Country Party want to change the system when in Queensland, with 19 per cent of the votes, not only is it beating the votes of the Liberal Party but it also has a member who could not obtain one-fifth of the votes and yet is Premier of that State. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  As you know, I am not a provocative  speaker.  But I should like to instance these things for the House and the people. Why would members of the Country Party want to change a system that can give them a Premier with 19 per cent of the votes of the people of Queensland? Why change a system which enabled the honourable member for McMillan - not a very good member - to get here on 17 per cent of the primary votes? Why would they want to change a system that has been used by the people, particularly those who sit in that corner of the Parliament, to elect minority governments for as long as we can remember? No wonder the great democrat who has just spoken does not want a change. I remind him that all the Labor Party seeks to do with any legislation affecting electoral boundaries or any other electoral matter is to see that the Party that gets the majority of the votes gets the majority of the seats. That is not possible under the present system. He said that the policy of the Labor Government was for first past the post. As a matter of fact it is not. At this stage the Labor Party is investigating various systems associated with voting and there is a great body of opinion that thinks proportional representation may be the fairest system. For my part I favour optional preferential voting whereby a person can vote for the number of candidates required to fill the vacancies or all candidates according to his desires. If members opposite think that is no good, why did they support it in the Australian Capital Territory for so long when they were in government for 23 years? This is the situation and to say what was said was completely false. 
I say to those honourable members who sit opposite that it is time in Australia that systems were devised whereby the majority vote elected the majority of members. As I look at those who sit in the corner opposite I cannot but think that when that system is introduced to Australia there will be a lot of vacancies in that corner. If one has regard to their performance and to their approach one must realise that they could not win a majority of the votes because the majority of people are more sensible than to elect Country Party members because they know they are the types of people who are elected only because boundaries are gerrymandered and rigged to their advantage. These facts are available for all to see. The papers and records show that it is a minority party of minority votes. What members opposite are opposing in this legislation is giving the people of this country a chance to say whether there shall be equitable voting systems throughout the length and breadth of Australia. It is not a policy that Labor is sponsoring or forcing down their necks. We are asking the people of Australia to judge what kind of system should be instituted in Australia. Members opposite fear the people. They are frightened' to let the people pass judgment on what is the best voting system which is all the Government is asking of the Australian people. 
The Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill is largely designed to enable the will of the people, when clearly expressed, to be implemented. It is designed to avoid perpetual deadlocks between both Houses of this Parliament. It is ironic that this very Bill should suffer the very fate it was designed to avoid. The fate of this Bill in the Senate shows clearly the 'do-nothing' and obstructionist policies of the Liberal and Country Parties. They would not admit publicly whether they supported or opposed the Bill but instead they resorted to the age-old device of referring the Bill to a committee. Of course, we are all familiar with the image of a camel as a horsedesigned by a committee. This is how the government of this country has stumbled along for the last 23 years under Liberal-Country Party administration. Now that they have lost control of this House the Liberal and Country Parties and their Democratic Labor Party running mates - the wedding mate of the Country Party - are abusing the power of the Senate to frustrate the popular will. Even the Liberal loves opposite are breaking out. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is courting the 
Australia Party at this stage. These romances, of course, are most strange. No wonder they do not want simultaneous elections for both Houses of this Parliament. A dying dog will clutch at any straw. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the alteration of the Constitution in such a way that elections for the Senate and for the House of Representatives will be brought into permanent alignment. The proposed legislation seeks to give to the people the opportunity to decide whether they approve this proposal - an opportunity to which they are justly entitled. As I stressed when this Bill was first before the House, the proposed legislation does not interfere with the rotational system of elections for senators. Indeed, it can be said that by providing that the terms of the senators shall be for 2 terms of the members of the House of Representatives, with half the senators retiring on each occasion, the principle of the Senate as a continuous House is being safeguarded. 
The essential provision in this Bill is to replace section 13 of the Constitution with a new section that defines the terms of senators as follows:   the term of service of a  Senator expires  upon the expiry or dissolution of the second House of Representatives to expire or be dissolved after he was chosen or if there is an earlier dissolution of the Senate, upon that dissolution. 
In general, the Bill proposes that senators will have a term of service equal to 2 terms of the House of Representatives rather than a fixed term of 6 years, consequently ensuring that elections for both Houses are held simultaneously. Transitional arrangements are proposed in relation to adjusting the new system to the terms of senators whose terms commenced in 1971 and whose terms will commence in 1974. These provisions are designed to ensure that in no case the term of a senator will be less than that for which he is chosen under the existing provisions. Of course, as at present, the terms of senators can be cut short by a double dissolution. A further provision of the Bill covers this situation. As honourable members would know, section 13 of the Constitution presently provides that, following a dissolution of the Senate, the Senate shall divide the senators chosen for each State into 2 classes whose terms shall be 3 years and 6 years respectively. It is proposed under this Bill that the terms of the senators in one class will be equal to 2 terms of the House of Representatives and the term of the other class shall be equal to one House of Representatives' term. 
Fewer national elections brought about by the holding of Senate and House of Representatives elections concurrently would simplify and sharpen the political process. Political parties would be better able to plan their campaigns and to formulate policies for government. Voters would know the choice before them - the election of a government which they could more confidently expect to effectively carry out its mandate. 
We are firmly of the belief that the issue at stake here is of such vital importance that it must be presented to the people to decide. It is inherent in our democratic process that such an issue, involving an amendment of the Constitution, can be decided only by the people and I express the hope that this House will adopt a responsible attitude in allowing the early passage of the Bill. 
I now turn to the Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill 1974. The word democratic' frightens every Country Party member in this House. The Australian Constitution is our ultimate guarantee of freedom and democracy and this Bill, now before the House for a second time, seeks to strengthen those provisions of the Constitution. It is quite understandable that the vested interests represented by the members opposite should do their utmost to block the strengthening of democracy in this country. Fear and mistrust of the common man have always been a Tory characteristic. This country has suffered for 23 years from being under the control of men who were so fearful of change as to seek out every avenue in order that it might be blocked. We will now appeal directly to the Australian people who have been so frustrated for so long. We will give them the opportunity of writing essential guarantees into our Constitution. If the proposals are rejected they will still have had the opportunity - something which the so-called democrats opposite denied them. They will surely endorse our basic proposal to ensure that all electorates for all Parliaments in this country are represented in direct relation to the populations they contain. 
It is also proposed by this Bill to write into the Constitution a guarantee that each House of the various State Parliaments must be elected directly by the people. Do democrats opposite object to that? Thus we will no longer have the situation where entrenched vested interests are able to frustrate the popular will. It is proposed to provide, for all time, a direct guarantee of the suffrage to all Australian citizens over the age of 18 years - subject, of course, to the usual restrictions relating to persons of unsound mind, etc. These rights are only partially protected by current legislation. The Government proposes the permanent protection of these rights by an amendment of the Constitution so that they may never foe taken away by the enemies of democracy. It is also proposed to remove from the Constitution explicit provisions for discrimination on the grounds of race. 
Not only do we seek a constitutional guarantee that State Houses of Parliament shall be directly elected by the people, but also it is proposed to guarantee the suffrage in State elections to Australian citizens on terms and conditions analogous to those operating for electors to this Parliament. These measures will place democratic institutions in Australia on a firmer foundation and will forestall the possibility of democracy being usurped by totalitarian parties of the right or the left. It will prevent vested interests ruling on behalf of the &gt;few in the name of the many. 
The Bill we now have before the House is necessary in order to protect our parliamentary system against the gerrymandering of electorates so frequently achieved through the techniques of zoning, restricted franchise and indirect elections, of which those who sit opposite are pastmasters. I detailed the extent of these malpractices when this Bill was before the House 3 months ago - before the Bill was defeated in the Senate by the same gerrymanderers who drew the boundaries previously. The need for the electoral system to be placed beyond the meddling hands of the descendants of the squatters should be obvious. It is useless to attempt to do this by altering the Constitution of a particular State, for any such Constitution can be altered at will by the Parliament concerned. The Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia is the only Constitution which cannot be altered without the express permission of the people. It is in this document that we must provide permanent guarantees of the rights and privileges of the Australian people. 
Finally I turn to the Constitution Alteration! (Mode of Altering the Constitution) Bill 1974. Honourable members will recall that the Bill now before the House proposes two basic changes to the mode of altering our Constitution. The first is to ease the existing provisions relating to the passage of a referendum. We propose that a referendum be carried if a majority of voters in not less than one half rather than more than one half of the States vote in favour of a proposed change to the Constitution. The second proposal is that electors in the A.C.T., including Jervis Bay, and the Northern Territory be given the right to vote at constitutional referendums. Do honourable members opposite oppose that democratic move? 
Like other Bills for proposed referendums, this Bill has suffered at the hands of an obstructionist and reactionary Opposition in the Senate. Honourable members will again recall that this House rejected an amendment made in that place which omitted that clause in the Bill providing for a majority of voters in not less than one half of the States voting in favour of a referendum proposal. This manoeuvre is typical of an Opposition left with nothing constructive to say in the face of a Government which is providing this great country with the kind of leadership it needs and wants after so many years of Liberal and Country Party turpitude. Fortunately,  Mr Speaker,  the Constitution provides for this sort of situation. One House of the Parliament cannot prevent a proposal, which has been passed twice by the other House, being put to the people as a proposed law at a referendum. And ultimately it is the people who must decide. lt is just this that the Bill now before the House is designed to facilitate. In a democracy, the will of the people must prevail. This is particularly so in relation to the Constitution - that document which transcends Party politics or everyday political issues and has as its central purpose the conduct of government, no matter what the political complexion. This, above all, is a matter for the people to decide. We intend that they should have that chance. Those opposite do not trust the people. The method by which a Constitution can be changed is, therefore, of great democratic importance. All sides of politics agree that our Constitution has proved overly difficult to change. Our proposal, which has been treated in such cavalier obstructionist manner by the Opposition, aims simply to do that. 
There is surely no need to go over the arguments for our proposal in any great detail. We say simply that a proposed law should not require a two-thirds majority of 
States in which a majority of voters support the proposal, but something closer to a simple majority of States. This is obviously more democratic. If a simple majority of votes is sufficient for election to this Parliament, if a simple majority of voters in each State, and across the Commonwealth, ds good enough, then a majority of the States should suffice. This is clearly what the founding fathers would have wanted. But they foresaw the formation of new States. They did not expect that the requirements, as they wrote them, would turn out to be a two-thirds requirement. Hence our proposal that a majority of voters in not less than half of the States should be sufficient. Had our proposal operated since Federation, 2 proposals which were defeated would have been carried. That would have represented a substantial advance, but there is nothing in this to suggest that any radical or fundamental alteration of the Constitution would emerge if the people favour our proposal. 
The second part of this Bill requires no argument. All parties agree that the right to vote at constitutional referendums should be extended to citizens of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. They have for too long been denied the right to vote on matters which affect them as much as any other citizens of this nation. It is time this fundamental democratic right was given to them. Nothing more nor less than the maintenance of democracy in this country is behind the ideas which brought forward this legislation. In addition to that, we on this side of the Parliament seek by these proposals to let the people decide - to have their vote on whether their Constitution should change. I ask all those honourable members opposite who do not trust the Australian people and say that they should not be given a vote on these great democratic proposals to stand and be counted. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave of the House to move a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders in respect of 5 Bills dealing with constitutional alterations. 
 The honourable members opposite who have just spoken have said that no reasons were given for the use of the guillotine on this occasion. I inform them that the subjects covered by the Bills concerned were discussed for 14 hours a little over 3 months ago. I have here a list of the speakers who took part in that debate. Amongst the 24 speakers in the debate were some honourable members who have complained tonight, notably the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  The subject matter was gone into very fully- 
I declare that the following Bills are urgent Bills: 
I move: 
That the time allocated in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1974- 
For the second reading, until 3.30 p.m. on Wednesday, 6 March; 
for the Committee stage, until 3.45 p.m. on Wednesday, 6 March; 
for the remaining stages, until 4 p.m. on Wednesday, 6 March. 
Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill 1974- 
For the second reading, until 4.15 p.m. on Wednesday, 6 'March; 
for the Committee stage, until 4.30 pm. on Wednesday, 6 March; 
for the remaining stages, until 4.45 p.m. on Wednesday, 6 March. 
Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill 1974- &lt;a) For the second reading, until 5 p.m. on Wednesday, 6 March; 
for the Committee stage, until 5.15 p.m. on Wednesday, 6 March; 
for the remaining stages, until 5.30 p.m. on Wednesday, 6 March. 
Constitution Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution) Bill 1974 - 
For the second reading, until 5.45 p.m. on Wednesday, 6 March; 
for the Committee stage, until 6 p.m. on Wednesday, 6 March; 
for the remaining stages, until 6.15 p.m. on Wednesday, 6 March. 
Constitution Alteration (Inter-change of Powers) Bill 1974- 
For the second reading, until 9.45 p.m. on 
Wednesday, 6 March; &lt;b) for the Committee stage, until 10.00 p.m. on 
Wednesday, 6 March; 
for the remaining stages, until 10.15 p.m. on 
Wednesday, 6 March 
Did all honourable members hear that? Would they like me to repeat it? I would not want any of those honourable members who have shown so much interest to miss any of the lines I have read out. 
The reason for this action is quite apparent. These Bills are of paramount importance. They must reach another place in time for discussion. Also with one exception, they are a repetition of legislation that was brought down in this Parliament about 3 months ago. The exception is the Constitution Alteration (Inter-change of Powers) Bill. I understand that it has fairly general support, although that is no guarantee that it will be passed by this House. Time has been allowed to permit discussion on the Bill which, as I have indicated, is said to receive general support from honourable members opposite. There should be adequate time to discuss it. One would have liked to extend the time for this debate to a week or more. The honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  said that there is only 

 H hours. I reckon that three-quarters of a minute should be enough for him. 
Honourable members opposite complain about the time limit that has been imposed but today if they had not wasted about 90 minutes endeavouring to undermine the 
Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  they would have had adequate, time. Today the Government put aside all other government business so that the House might have full time for discussion of these important constitutional changes. Yet the Opposition saw fit to make cheap political capital out of an issue and to propose the discussion of a matter of public importance which took up valuable time that could have been spent discussing the latest Bill we have introduced. Very little was gained by that discussion this morning because the Postmaster-General's answer was one at which nobody could cavil. Therefore the time of the House was wasted when it might well have been taken up on these important issues that are before the Parliament. 
I suggest to honourable members opposite on what is really the first day of the session that they should concentrate on issues that really matter if they want to have adequate discussion because time does not permit unlimited debate on everything, no matter how much we desire it. With others I regret that today 90 valuable minutes were wasted while honourable members opposite, particularly members of the Australian Country Party, sought to attack the Postmaster-General when they could well have been debating the great and vital issues incorporated in this legislation. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday at eleven o'clock a.m., or such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the Chair, on each Wednesday at fifteen minutes past two o'clock p.m. and on each Thursday at ten o'clock a.m. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, at half-past ten o'clock p.m. on each sitting day the  Speaker  shall propose the question. 'That the House do now adjourn' which question shall be open to debate; if the House be in Committee at the time stated, the  Chairman  shall report progress and upon such report being made the  Speaker  shall forthwith propose the question 'That the House do now adjourn' which question shall be open to debate. 
Provided that: 
if a division be in progress at the time fixed for interruption such division shall be completed and the result announced, 
if, on the question 'That the House do now adjourn' being proposed, a Minister requires the question to be put forthwith without debate, the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the question, 
nothing in this order shall operate to prevent a motion for the adjournment of the House being moved by a Minister at an earlier hour, 
any business under discussion and not disposed of at the time of the adjournment shall be set down on the Notice Paper for the next sitting, and 
if the question 'That the House do now adjourn' is negatived, the House or Committee shall resume the proceeding at the point at which they had been interrupted. 
Provided further that, if at eleven o'clock p.m., the question before the House is That the House do now adjourn' the  Speaker  shall forthwith adjourn the House until the time of its next meeting. 
The question is a very reasonable one and quite unexpected. The question regarding the confusion that might exist because of certain statements which have been made by the Leader of the Opposition in reference to a political party in this country is a matter of national importance. I am aware that the Leader of the Opposition has stated that the Australia Party is unnecessary and, as such, it cannot add much to the Australian political content. However, this statement is rather strange and must be judged against the background of what happened previously. It is a strange suggestion to make, particularly when I understand there was a clandestine meeting in the middle of the day at Primo's at Elizabeth Bay at which the Leader of the Opposition sought to woo this fair young political beauty. He then turned around a few days later and said that the Australia Party was unnecessary. May I recommend to the right honourable member that age old axiom that you never start to make love to a girl by kicking her in the shins? That is precisely what he did. 
Romance is really blossoming and blooming on the Opposition benches. We have the Australian Country Party and the Democratic 
Labor Party aligned in a marriage of convenience and the poor Leader of the Opposition is seeking a bride and nobody will have him. I understand that, again, the real trouble in all this is the honourable member for Wannon, because the Leader of the Opposition is seeking another political bride to curtail the activities of that distinguished gent on that side of the fence. All. this makes realistic the suggestion made by the honourable member for Casey that the public may well be confused. I will consider what action could be taken in respect of it. However, if the Leader of the Opposition, particularly, is to continue along his lovemaking way, I would suggest that he should always remember that love is like a photograph: It must be developed in the dark. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the vote taken earlier this day on the third reading of the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1974 being rescinded and the question for the third reading of the Bill being again put to the House forthwith. 

 Mr Speaker, as you know, on the third reading of this Bill an absolute majority was required but due to a malfunction of the electrical system only one minute 26 seconds was allowed for honourable members to reach the chamber instead of the 2 minutes provided under the Standing Orders. Consequently 9 members of the Government Party and 3 members of the Opposition were locked out from the chamber. It was unprecedented for the bells not to have rung for that time. Honourable members from both sides would be excused for not having made their way to the chamber in the time available to them. Consequently, I believe it would be quite wrong - I believe that honourable members on that side of the Parliament would think so too - for important legislation of this kind not to be taken through to its fulfilment because of a malfunction of the electrical system. 
It is not unusual to recommit Bills in these circumstances. Tonight I turned up the Hansard of 5 December 1962 and found a somewhat similar occurrence in connection with a recommittal. Honourable members were not locked out but there was an arrangement whereby pairs were to be granted and the pair for one member of the Australian Country Party at that time was not approved. Consequently the Government's legislation was defeated. But next day the Australian Labor Party, then in Opposition, agreed to recommit the clause because of this misunderstanding, and it was carried by the Government whereas the day before it had been defeated. In other words, we accepted what was a genuine mistake and the legislation was allowed to take the course set down by the Government. If one looks through Hansard undoubtedly one will find many other similar instances. Therefore tonight I move this motion. I hope that the Opposition will support it because I believe it is necessary in view of the importance of the legislation and the factors associated with the reason why honourable members on both sides of the Parliament were not here. I believe it is something that will meet with the approval of all democrats in this country because legislation should not be allowed to be defeated merely by something that has not occurred before in the history of this Parliament. 
It is true that 2 blocks of Reid House have been occupied by students and some nondescripts. I understand that originally a dog also occupied it but the dog left first because of lack of suitable toilet facilities. The people behind the move are the Committee for Low Cost Housing. The principal promoters are a man by the name of O'Shannassy - a well-known Communist - and  Dr Peter  Hughes, the  President  of the Liberal Party in the Australian Capital Territory. I understand that both contested the presidency of the Committee but that 0'Shannassy won in a photo finish. 
That is right, in the dark. There is no light in the place. The squatters had tried a link-up with the next adjoining building which is occupied by a cultural group, but this has now been disconnected. The wiring in the building occupied by the squatters is dangerous and the place is a fire hazard. I also understand that one of their companions yesterday pleaded guilty in the Canberra court to carrying drugs and was fined $100. In addition to this I would say that there is very little water. But there is no reason why some money should not be spent on these buildings and the normal services connected to them if the buildings were transferred to some location on or near the university campus where the students could be near their studies. However,, it would be a waste of public money to expend money on them at their present location. In giving that report to the House I would like to say that it is good to see the unity ticket that exists in the cause of the common good by the Liberal candidate for this Territory and his Communist friend and supporter. 
 I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday at eleven o'clock a.m., or such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the Chair, on each Wednesday at fifteen minutes past two o'clock p.m. and on each Thursday at ten o'clock a.m. 
I think it will be generally agreed that the fixing of hours of sitting of the Parliament is possibly one of the most difficult problems that face governments no matter what political ilk they may be. The legislative program, the rights of private members, committee and party meetings and the electoral commitments of the various members in their constituencies all have to be considered. In addition there is also the prospect, as we have on this occasion, of holidays intervening - Easter and Anzac Day - and the distances of travel from far parts of Australia. These things do not apply in countries like England, for instance. There is the question of debating within reasonable hours and not sitting into the early hours of the morning. The question of adequate time for debate on very comprehensive legislation of interest to Government supporters as well as to members of the Opposition also has to be considered. These and a number of allied problems make the fixing of the hours of the Parliament an extremely difficult matter. 
Allied to that, of course, are our Standing Orders which I think it has to be agreed could do with a modernisation in many respects to cut out - not to short circuit - many of the time consuming practices that are involved and which probably could be brought more into line with modern day thinking. When one considers that about 20 per cent of the members of this House are in their first term and are comparatively young members, and that about 40 per cent of the members of this Parliament have been here for slightly over 3 years, I think it can be reasonably said that there is a case for a complete review to see whether there could not be general agreement in respect to how we can face these problems and within the course of that review cope with all the matters that I have mentioned. 
Since coming into government I have endeavoured - probably not as successfully as some might wish - to give as much time as possible, within limitations, to members to speak. No doubt every member wants to speak and it is probably preferable for every member to speak. But when they seek to exercise that right extensively it presents problems and means curtailment of the time of debates. I do not hesitate to say that the Opposition is entitled within its powers to use to the full the Standing Orders to put its case and to take exception to the conduct of the Government when it thinks fit. That, of course, must bring retaliation from the Government side All these things are accepted as part and parcel of the machinery of parliamentary debate. All of them of course have to be considered in the context of when we can sit. 
Since coming to office I have endeavoured to see what could be done in respect of improving the possibility of providing honourable members with the opportunity to have their say, to have adequate debate and at the same time to fulfil the normal requirements for health and the commitments that I have mentioned. In case there may be criticism I just mention what was done during the legislative program of the Government last year. The House sat for 81 days, the highest number of sitting days for 23 years. It had not sat for so long since 1950. The average number of sitting days before that was 64. The House sat for 913 hours, the highest number of sitting days since 1912 - 61 years. While some parliaments probably sat for longer periods, only two in the world, namely the House of Commons in Great Britain and the House of Commons in Canada, sat for more hours than we did here. There was only one occasion last year on which this House sat after 11 p.m. I think that if a free vote were taken on that issue there would be fairly common agreement that that is a reasonable hour to finish to enable those who have responsibilities to carry them out. In previous Parliaments the average rising time was 21 minutes after midnight. In that time 253 Bills were introduced compared with an earlier average of about 142 with the highest figure being 169 under the previous Government. On 18 occasions matters of public importance were discussed and adjournment debates took place on 75 occasions. The average number of adjournment debates for the 2 Parliaments was 33, the highest number being 42 years ago when there were 67, 
On every Thursday morning in the last session of this Parliament private members were given an opportunity to express their grievances. This took place on 11 occasions as against an average of 5 in the 2 previous Parliaments. Every motion which was put forward on private members' day last year during the last session day was debated and taken to a vote. Some of them were most contentious issues associated with social matters and the like. The end of the Parliament last year was the first time in my memory that there was no unresolved general business on the notice paper. It is true that we sat on one occasion for a period of 6 weeks without a break. We sat longer hours and sometimes 4 days a week in order to give members the opportunity to speak on important issues. The legislative program was carried through with honourable members opposite exercising their rights to put their points of view on certain issues, sometimes with grim results, but that is part and parcel of the game. The legislative program "was one of the heaviest ever. Despite the restrictions imposed by the Standing Orders which certainly call for changes adjournment debates took place; urgent matters of public importance were discussed; grievance day and general business day practices were all given full effect to in that time. 'I give that broad outline in order to remind honourable members what was done on that occasion. 
Some honourable members criticised the period of time for, say, adjournment debates. I will cite some figures for honourable members to make a comparison between the position in previous years and what is now proposed. Last year there were 81 sitting days and on 75 occasions an adjournment debate took place with 305 speeches being made. On one occasion the debate lapsed because there were no speakers. On a couple of other days there was no adjournment debate because it was the eve of a holiday period. A total of 305 speeches were made in adjournment debates. In 1972 under the previous Government there were 60 sitting days, 16 of which went after midnight and only 36 adjournment debates with only 211 speakers taking part. In 1971 there were 74 sitting days, 29 went after midnight and 41 adjournment debates with only 206 speakers. In 1970 there were 73 sitting days, 23 going past midnight and 34 adjournment debates with only 201 speakers. In 1969 there were 51 sitting days, 18 of which went past midnight and 29 adjournment debates. In 1968 there were 67 sitting days, 20 going past midnight and 32 adjournment debates. In 1 967 there were 62 sitting days, 20 going past midnight and 28 adjournment debates. Those figures show that in the last session we had the greatest number of adjournment debates ever and the greatest number of speeches on the adjournment were made since I have been in this Parliament. Honourable members should not forget that all that took place before 11 p.m. 
 I speak briefly to the amendment. The Opposition has moved that the House on Tuesdays meet at 2 p.m. instead of 11 a.m. I have been amazed at the conciliatory speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  He sounded complimentary and quite friendly. It was nice to see him in that mood after his outburst this morning. This motion is concerned with the convenience of honourable members. I certainly should like to be able to accommodate the honourable member. He said that members from country districts have difficulty getting to Canberra by 11 a.m. on Tuesdays. I point out that there are country members from this side of the House - I instance the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  - who also are inconvenienced. To meet the wishes of those members who live some distance from Canberra presents great problems. The situation is that we must debate the legislation and for members of the Opposition to insist on additional time being available for all manner of debates and then move to reduce sitting hours by 2 hours a week is something I cannot fathom unless they have a reasonable alternative. Do members opposite want to sit until, say, 1 o'clock each morning? If that happened they may be too tired to get to Canberra on Tuesday mornings. Can they suggest some other way of meeting the problem? Would they like to sit on Fridays or Mondays? By all means they can submit this amendment, which is idealistic, but how would they make up the time lost? Of course, when they were in government those who sponsor this amendment never gave the then Opposition the time it sought for debate. 
The position is that Ministers and private members from this side are involved in committee meetings and other work yet they find time for those other duties even with the Tuesday morning sittings. It has beer suggested that if the House met at 2 o'clock in the afternoon 3 days of the week that would be an alternative, but this would mean about another hour a week would be lost. This all adds up. A certain amount of time only is available and it must be used. There is an alternative to meeting on Tuesday mornings. The House could meet on Wednesday mornings, but there would be the cry that that would interfere with the regular party meetings. That is a reasonable claim. 
I should like honourable members opposite to consider all other avenues before proceeding with this amendment. I do not know what they think about the House adjourning at. 
II p.m. I think it is a reasonable hour. I would prefer to sit an extra day or extra week so that general debates could finish at 10.30 p.m. and the adjournment debate conclude at 11 p.m. This would enable honourable members to be home at a reasonable hour. If the Opposition proposal is adopted the time available for debate will be reduced by 2 hours a week. Frankly, the Parliament cannot spare that time. A heavy legislative program is proposed. I will deal with this in a later speech. Much as I should like to accept the amendment for the convenience of members of my Party and members opposite, the Government cannot accept it for the reasons I have mentioned. Whilst I commiserate with those from far distant parts of Australia all must make some sacrifice. 
I might mention also that the Parliament sits only 3 days a week. We are arguing whether it should sit for 2 hours of a Tuesday morning, meeting at a time by which most workers have completed almost half a day's work. I do not think members would get much sympathy from the public if this amendment were carried. We are obliged to be here when times are set for meeting. This is our working place and we should be here. Whilst I am sympathetic to the proposition and would be delighted to be able to adopt it I cannot from the point of view of practical politics of the workings of this Parliament do so without curtailing discussion time that should be available to honourable members. 
I put it to those who propose the amendment that they can have less debating time or sit later into the night or sit on Mondays or Fridays. They are the only alternatives if we are to maintain the program we envisage. As I have said before, the sitting and debating times for the Parliament were fixed when there were only 75 members. I was a member at that time. Over the years there has been little change except for some shortening of the time available to members in which to speak, yet there are now 125 members in this chamber. 
I believe that the answer to the problem we are discussing is to have some kind of all party committee review completely the workings of the Parliament to see whether, in some way, there cannot be common agreement on what debates take place and what are good sitting hours. In that way ultimately we may find a solution acceptable to all. I am sure that time will come because the Parliament will not be able to get through its business as thoroughly as everyone would desire unless there is some review resulting in some proposal acceptable to all. Whilst I am not unsympathetic to the amendment, the practical politics of the running of this Parliament make it impossible for me to accept it. 
in reply - I wish to reply only briefly to what has been said. It has been a rather harmonious discussion although there have been some barbs. But I should like to reply generally to what has been said. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  spoke a few moments ago. I do not know whether he was suggesting that we should sit past 1 1 o'clock at night. Personally, I would not like to see that procedure introduced again. I do not look upon that as a reasonable alternative. I also noted his comments in regard to office work, research assistants and all that kind of thing, and without taking any personal credit for it I think that honourable members will agree that since the present Government came to office there has quite rightly been a commendable improvement in the facilities extended to members of Parliament. Without being over-critical, I think that was one avenue associated with members that the previous Government neglected, I think to its cost and to the cost of the people because we lacked the necessary facilities. Naturally, we would like to increase those facilities, particularly, as the honourable member for Cowper mentioned, the number of office assistants and all that kind of thing. But it is pretty difficult to do these things when we have been constantly criticised for the growth in the Public Service. I wonder what the reaction of the public would be now if every member were provided with 2 extra research assistants or secretaries. I would hate to be here with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  criticising us for this action. I am a sensitive one and I would not like to risk that. So honourable members opposite will agree that that presents great problems for us. But honourable members can rest assured that I and the Government will continue to see that members have the facilities which are available in most cases to the average executive of any business in the country to enable them to carry out effectively their responsibilities. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  in speaking to this motion said that Parliament's hours should provide adequate time for a proper question time, full discussion on all legislation, full discussion on all ministerial statements, the right of private members to have discussion and so on to be maintained, Ministers to provide adequate and full and complete answers and adequate notice of a planned program of legislation. As I listened to the honourable member I could not help but ponder what a few months in the wilderness does to people. It works wonders, because every one of those things was denied to us when we were on that side of the fence for about 23 long weary years. I do not want to revive the past; I hate to do it. But you will not mind,  Mr Speaker,  if I make passing reference to it because these are things that I lived with for a long time. I agree that they were not good things. It is true that since this Government came into office it has embarked upon an extensive program. But we have endeavoured to fit that program within the confines of the Parliament and to give the opportunity for adequate discussion. I will not repeat the figures again, except to say that a record number of 305 speakers spoke on the motion that the House adjourn during the last session of Parliament. That is an excellent record. Also, private members' business has been discussed on every occasion. In addition, this business has been brought to a vote. Discussion on matters of public importance time and again has been allowed. In every possible way we have endeavoured to give private members a better go. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that we are more concerned with legislative statistics than we are with achievement. We do not have much to beat in this respect because 100 Bills was a pretty good number for previous governments to introduce in a year. When we took office there was so much to be done after such a long time of inertia that we had to build a record not only of a long legislative program but of achievement. In addition, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned that the debate on the AddressinReply should go for 3 or 4 weeks. It is possible that it will. How does the honourable member know that it will not go for that long? Debate on the Address-in-Reply has not commenced yet. The Speech by  Her  Majesty the Queen was an excellent one, easily the best address by  Her  Majesty I suppose in our time. I think that people should spend a lot of time pondering such a speech. 
Under the previous Government's legislative program we were given roughly a week's notice of proposed legislation. We were expected to debate this legislation the following week. I believe that there is a lot to be said for an arrangement under which a government could tell the Opposition or its own members intimately what its legislative program would be 5 or 6 weeks ahead. But practical men know that a government cannot do that. Such matters depend on draftsmen and others. But within reason we shall endeavour to meet the requests of the Opposition in this regard. As is the usual and established practice in this country we will expect these matters to be debated after the Opposition's first Party meeting- 
After they are brought in. The honourable member says 'At least'. This is a system that has grown up after 23 years. I cannot get out of it. I thought it was good. The previous Government brought it in and I just cannot get out of my system the belief that honourable members opposite would not want to change it. Evidently they do want to change it now. Honourable members opposite now speak of guillotines and that sort of thing. One honourable member opposite said that the previous Government moved the gagging of debates 222 times. We have put on only 100 so far in one year. We are 122 behind. No wonder the previous Government was in trouble - the honourable member cannot count. By the way, the honourable member is recorded in Hansard of 4 May 1971 as voting for the then Government when it put through 17 Bills in 19 hours. Surely that is not the distinguished democrat whom I heard a few moments ago. I could not break that record if I set out to do it. It will stand for all time. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  also spoke about the ruthless use of the guillotine. But he is indelibly recorded with the honourable mem.ber for Henty  (Mr Fox)  and others as having voted at that time. The honourable member for Henty is really guilty because he counted the numbers. He was the teller who would not let a man escape the use of the ruthless guillotine against a Labor Opposition. But now he is reformed after 5, 6 or 12 months in the wilderness. He says that things ought to be decent now. The Opposition speaks about freedom of speech. Who will ever forget the one day meeting of the Gorton Government? Will honourable members ever forget it? We adjourned on 26 September 1969 for an election. On 25 November this free speech Opposition that sits opposite called Parliament together for one day. This was after a period of 2 months. The then Government introduced the Governor-General's Speech which lasted for 59 seconds. The 21 -gun salute that went off was 20 seconds longer than the Speech. These are the people who talk about free speech. In addition, the honourable member for Henty made one of his best speeches. He moved the Address-in-Reply in 2 minutes dead. He was followed up by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who excelled himself. Everybody was breathless as he spoke for 20 seconds and seconded the motion moved by the honourable member for Henty. 
The then Government moved 6 gags on the same day. It went right through the routine of electing everything. But now the Opposition says that we are not giving enough time for the discussion of legislation. By heavens, Don Bradman was a record breaker in his time but he had nothing on those opposite. There were just on 30 pieces of general business - unfinished business - on the business paper when the Government of those opposite went out of business in 1972. Hardly one matter worth mentioning was ever discussed in regard to general business and certainly nothing was ever brought to a vote. In the Budget session general business day was never called on by those opposite. Yet the present Government did not interfere with grievance day or general business day at any time last year. So when honourable members opposite speak of what ought to be done, when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asks for these great reforms, while I am a terribly sympathetic man I am not unduly moved. The only thing that inspires me to see that Parliament gets a good go is not the Opposition but because on this side we are democrats. We believe in the freedom of speech and discussion and the right of members to say their piece. 
I can tell honourable members opposite, having listened to them for quite a long time, that a lot of them would go a lot better if they did not talk at all. As I have said, honourable members opposite now have some suggestions to make in respect of what ought to be done. But the situation is that many endless hours are wasted in this Parliament by people who speak unnecessarily only for obstructionist purposes. Only yesterday the Opposition, when asked who wanted to speak on a piece of legislation, put down everybody on the list. When we have to chop the debate off they say that we have chopped off 20 speakers. Just as we are going to stop the debate they bob up an ex-Prime Minister. They say: 'Look, you would not gag an ex-Prime Minister, would you?' Then when  Mr McMahon  disappears they bob up  Mr Gorton  and they say: 'You are not going to gag another one?' Then you get to the stage where you wonder when they are going to run out of ex-Prime Ministers. This is an old gag. 
Yesterday when we asked for speakers on a Bill we were given, from memory, 19 from the other side of the House. It would have taken 680 minutes to accommodate all of these speakers. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is one member who constantly opposes what he says is the gag or the guillotine. After all, the House of Commons, which is the mother of parliaments, uses these methods. My godfather, do not tell me that those who have turned back the sands of time and still want 'God Save the Queen' want to turn against the mother of parliaments. Last year the honourable member for Mackellar spoke for 14 hours. We have only been going here for 2 days and he has spoken on 9 occasions and a total of 66 minutes. Yet he will stand up tomorrow and tell you that he is not getting a fair go. He spoke 24 times on the adjournment of the House, and now he complains about free speech. It would not be so bad if we knew what he said, but nobody has yet worked out what he has talked about in all that 14 hours in the 24 times he has spoken in adjournment debates. 
Honourable members may be assured that we will preserve to the full their rights as private members. We will see that they are given adequate time within the time available for discussion. Legislation will certainly be telegraphed as far ahead as possible, not only to our own members but also to those opposite. Having sat on the other side of the House for a long time, I can say quite sincerely that it is difficult for an Opposition to get the trend of legislation. But one has to work in Opposition. One is entitled to facilities to do that, but one cannot expect the Government to run the Parliament to suit the Opposition, except to give it a reasonable go on things that matter. 
I suggest in all sincerity to honourable members opposite that they should consider the record of this Government in respect to what has been done for discussion by private members. They should study carefully all the matters that come up for debate. This would be a much better place for discussion and everything of that nature if those members opposite who desire to speak spoke exclusively on the subjects in which there is interest and of which they have knowledge. In that way they would add not only to the Parliament but also to the debating capacity of the House. 
I am sorry that I cannot accept the amendment. 1 understand the situation in regard to committees and all that those matters apply to. This part of the Parliament also faces those problems, and they are matters that cannot be overcome immediately. Some honourable members said that we have a long recess in the middle of the year. They should not be too optimistic because I have a shrewd idea that it will be a lot shorter. Consequently honourable members opposite may well find themselves back in this place long before the traditional middle of August. In that way we will make up time and probably meet the requests of those opposite. 
As one who is a democrat, I hate to see the Deputy Leader of the Opposition threatening us with action in another place, unless we give way here on certain of our proposals. After all, the Senate is a House of review. It is the place of the States. Surely the Liberal Party and the Country Party would not use it for bad political purposes. Surely they would not use it for retaliation. I think it is monstrous  for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to threaten us because of some action here in regard to hours. I could not believe that the Australian Country Party would get that low. Consequently that kind of threat I treat with a certain amount of disdain because I feel it is not the feeling of those who sit in the Country Party corner of the House, and they would not be a party to it in any circumstances, I am certain. Therefore, that idle threat will not force us to accept the amendment. 
In any case, I hope that honourable members will appreciate the problems we have and will co-operate during this coming session and in that way relieve what some criticise as the guillotine and the gag, which are normal, traditional parliamentary methods of curtailing those who obstruct, without any objective, the ways of the Government and also the doing and proceedings of the Parliament. 1 commend the motion I have moved to the House. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lynch's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, at half-past ten o'clock p.m. on each sitting day the  Speaker  shall propose the question - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate; if the House be in committee at the time stated, the  Chairman  shall report progress and upon such report being made the  Speaker  shall forthwith propose the question - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate. 
Provided that: 
if a division be in progress at the time fixed for interruption such division shall be completed and the result announced, 
if, on the question - That the House do now adjourn - being proposed, a Minister requires the question to be put forthwith without debate, the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the question, 
nothing in this order shall operate to prevent a motion for the adjournment of the House being moved by a Minister at an earlier hour, 
any business under discussion and not disposed of at the time of the adjournment shall be set down on the Notice Paper for the next sitting, and 
if the question - That the House do now adjourn - is negatived, the House or committee shall resume the proceedings at the point at which they had been interrupted. 
Provided further that, if at eleven o'clock p.m., the question before the House is - That the House do now adjourn - the  Speaker  shall forthwith adjourn the House until the time of its next meeting. 
In moving this motion I do not intend to canvass the previous debate which covered the  proceedings of the House. This motion deals only with the finishing times each night and the routine procedure which is to be applied. The only significant change to the previous order is that from now on each night the motion that the House do now adjourn will be put at 10.30 p.m. and the debate will continue until 11 p.m. The only purpose of this motion is to regularise the finishing time. We believe it is more acceptable to members of Parliament because it saves having different adjournment times each night. But the usual adjournment debate will take place and the finishing time for the business of the Parliament will be 10.30 p.m. with the final lifting of the Parliament taking place at 11 p.m. as happened in the previous session. 
 After listening to the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  everybody will know why we do not propose to sit past 1 1 o'clock at night. Is he not awful to listen to in the middle of the day? Fancy having to sit up and listen to him after midnight. He is one of the former Ministers who talk about freedom of speech but voted for 17 Bills to be debated in 19 hours. He is a great reform character. He is one of those reform characters for whom six or twelve months in the wilderness will do the world of good. He has never known anything about free speech in his life. He is never in the Parliament at 11 o'clock at night. We cannot find him when we ring the bells at that time. If we rang them any later he would be snoring his head off in the Hotel Canberra or the Lakeside. He is the honourable member who wants us to sit after 1 1 p.m. Why does he not move that we sit after 11 p.m.? He does not do so because his Whip has told him that his Party is supporting the motion. The Opposition being the harmonious group that it is, I suppose the honourable member can do what he likes outside the Parliament as long as he does what he is told to do in the Parliament. 
Let us look at the figures concerning the adjournment debate. Nobody heard of the ex-Minister, the honourable member for Barker, but he was in the previous Government for a long time. Last year 305 speeches were made in the adjournment debate. There were 81 sitting days, and on 75 of them there were adjournment debates. On a couple of nights the Opposition did not take up the option; it had nobody to speak on the adjournment. Let us look at the record of the Government of which the honourable member for Barker was a member. In 1972 there were 60 sitting days, 16 extending past midnight, and 36 adjournment debates, generally between 1 o'clock and 2 o'clock in the morning. There were only 211 speeches. I suppose the honourable member can add up. I suggest that he should put that figure alongside 305. In 1971 there were 74 sitting days, 29 after midnight - the former Government was not game to reveal its policy in the middle of the day  -  71 adjournment debates and 206 speeches. The present Government's record last year is 100 ahead of that. 
In 1970 there were 73 sitting days, 23 after midnight. No wonder the former Government lasted 'for so long; nobody knew what it was doing. There were 34 adjournment debates and only 201 speeches. There were only 600 speeches were made in a few months. In 1969 there were 51 sitting days, eighteen after midnight - that is when all the adjournment debates took place, in the middle of the night - and there were 29 adjournment debates. In 1968 there were 67 sitting days, twenty after midnight, and 32 adjournment debates, every one after midnight. In 1967 there were 62 sittings days, twenty after midnight and only 28 adjournment debates. 
Let me mention the Opposition Whip. I asked for leave to incorporate in Hansard figures prepared for me by the Parliament setting out every day on which there was an adjournment debate in the 27th Parliament. From these figures it will be seen that adjournment debates were missed on so many nights and the gaps between adjournment debates were so great that members 'forgot how to speak on the adjournment. I ask leave of the House to incorporate the document. Is it granted? 
 I move: 
That the matter of the letter, dated 2 December 1973, written to the editor, 'The Sun News-Pictorial', in the name of the honourable Member for Casey and published in that newspaper on 6 December 1973 be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
That the Committee of Privileges, when considering this matter, have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
As the House will be aware, this matter was referred to the Committee on 6 December 1973. The Committee had not concluded its inquiries on  tv .  date of prorogation and this motion seeks  to  refer the matter to the Committee again to enable it to complete its inquiries. In accordance with the usual practice, the motion also seeks to give the Committee power to send for persons, papers and records, should it require to do so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings for inquiry and report: 
whether the televising of portion of the Parliamentary debates and proceedings is desirable, and 
if so, to what extent and in what manner the telecast should be undertaken. 
That the committee, for any purposes related to this inquiry, have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting its concurrence. 
As the House will be aware this matter was referred to the Committee last year. The Committee had not concluded its inquiries at the date of prorogation and this motion seeks to refer the matter to the Committee again to enable it to complete its inquiries. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That, in relation to the proceedings on any Sales Tax Bills, so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent - 
the presentation and the first readings of the Bills together; 
one motion being moved and one question being put in regard to, respectively, the second readings, the committee's report stage, and the third readings, of all the Bills together, and 
the consideration of all the Bills as a whole together in a committee of the whole. 
This motion is purely procedural and no immediate introduction of sales tax legislation is contemplated. Alteration of sales tax rates usually involves the introduction of 9 Sales Tax Bills. Over a period of many years the House has found it convenient for the Bills to be taken together. Standing order 291 permits these Bills to be introduced without notice. But it is necessary to suspend the Standing Orders to enable the Bills to be presented and dealt with together. When passed, the motion will remain effective for this session. By moving the motion at this time we will avoid the speculation which could result if a motion were introduced later in the year. 
in reply - This has been a classic example of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  speaking for the sake of speaking. For his benefit I point out that similar motions have been introduced every session since 1963. As a Minister of the former Government he apparently has let them pass unnoticed and has been a party to their introduction. As I mentioned earlier, this is a purely procedural motion. Generally there are about 9 sales tax Bills and this is a purely procedural motion to expedite them. All governments since 1963 have used this motion and consequently if there are behind it the sinister implications that the honourable member suggested his Government must have sponsored them earlier. To bring him up to date I think I should read my explanation again. 
This motion is purely procedural and no immediate introduction of sales tax legislation is contemplated. Alteration of sales tax rates usually involves the introduction of 9 Sales 
Tax Bills. Over a period of many years the House has found it convenient for the Bills to be taken together. Standing order 291 permits these Bills to be introduced without notice. But it is necessary to suspend the Standing Orders to enable the Bills to be presented and dealt with together. When passed, the motion will remain effective for this session. By moving the motion at this time we will avoid the speculation which could result if the motion were introduced later in the year. 
Obviously there is no sinister purpose to this motion. It is the normal procedure followed by the Parliament. No guillotine will be involved. If I need advice on how to apply the guillotine I need refer only to the performance of the previous Government of which the honourable member for Wannon was a Minister. He voted for the guillotining of 17 Bills in 19 hours. The guillotine will not apply in this instance. I simply bring the honourable member up to date. I congratulate him and other members of the Opposition in improving their approach to democracy since they have spent 6 months in Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order!  Is the honourable member seeking to make a personal explanation? Does he claim to have been misrepresented? 
In view of the projected legislation dealing with the registration of political parties and, just as importantly the forthcoming Senate election, it is necessary for the people to know precisely the parties contesting elections in order that they may avoid in many ways informal votes. I am aware that certain changes have been made to the names of some parties, I think it is only fair that the people should know the situation, in order that they may vote inteligently and in view of the registration. I understand that it has been agreed that the Australian Country Party, which is represented now in this Parliament, will shortly change its name to the National Country Party of Australia. This will take place later in the year when the first conference confirms the change. 
It will campaign - I say this for the benefit of the people and to assist the Country Party - in the Senate election in May under the name of Country Party, except in Queensland where it will run a joint ticket with the Australian Democratic Labor Party under the name of the National Alliance. I hope that everybody .follows that. But it is stated that senior officials believe that the Party will call itself the National Party in contesting seats around the major cities. So I ask the city dwellers to make sure that they vote for the National Party, and the country dwellers to make sure that they vote for the National Alliance because it is important that confusion does not force them to make what might be termed informal votes. 
I understand that in respect of the 1974 Senate election, on 10 March the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party announced that they would be running a joint ticket under the name of the National Alliance. I think a lot of us could give a different name for it but that is the official one. By the way, for the benefit of the people, those arrange ments will be for the Senate election only and do not imply any merger of the 2 parties. So the people should be aware that when they vote for the National Alliance they vote for 2 parties and, in effect they have struck the jackpot - 2 votes for one. I understand - this is where it is confusing - that the Country Party is continuing negotiations with the DLP for a permanent merger in Queensland under the title of the National Party. In Western Australia on Wednesday, 13 March, the leaders of the Country Party and the DLP will launch a joint campaign for the Western Australian State election under the name of the National Alliance. The name will change to National Party when constitutional changes in both Party platforms have been approved. 
I hope people understand that lucid explanation of the arrangements and I think, in order to avoid confusion amongst honourable members also, it would be only fair if the Leader of the Country Party would say whether he represents in this House the Country Party, the National Alliance, the Nationals or the National Party because I would not like to use the wrong title. It is quite legitimate under the Electoral Act for any political party to change its name. I have been asked why this was done in this case. I suppose one could not blame the Country Party for changing its name in view of its record. But it is to the Liberal Party's credit that it is carrying on regardless of its liability of a false name and its personnel. But I might say so far as the Australian Country Party is concerned - I do not want to incriminate its members in any way - that it is the usual practice of people convicted generally of false pretences or confidence tricks to change their name when their sins are found out. Far be it from me to imply that that would be the purpose of the Country Party. Unfortunately there is great confusion amongst voters. Today, I thank the honourable member for Blaxland for the opportunity to make clear to everybody the situation in regard to this change of name. I hope this explanation will avoid people casting a false vote and, in effect, will avoid people casting informal votes at the forthcoming Senate election. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act I present a copy of the report with maps showing the boundaries of each proposed division by the Distribution Commissioners for Western Australia together with copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the Commissioners, and move: 
That the report and maps be printed. 
I might add, for the benefit of honourable members, that owing to unavoidable delays in printing I am unable to give all honourable members copies of these proposals today. However as soon as they are available they will be distributed. Honourable members will, of course, have an opportunity to debate the proposals when the Government's resolutions are submitted to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
From listening to the mover and seconder of the motion one would never believe that it was a motion of dissent from your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  as both the disgruntled members who have just spoken have taken advantage of the opportunity to get their own back in respect of certain statements that have been made. It is interesting to note the star players in this motion, particularly those from the Opposition. First of all the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is accused of not withdrawing remarks several days old in which he referred to some honourable member as a contemptible cur. 
A contemptible creature. In the course of a discussion today the mover of the motion, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  called an honourable member on this side a yellow cur. It is recorded in Hansard at page 52 that on 5 March the seconder of the motion, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  said to the Minister for 'Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren):  'You filthy swine'. Is it not strange that all these characters, including the Prime Minister, came from the same A category school? Is it not amazing also that the mover and the seconder have their animals mixed up? 
Last week the honourable member for New England sat here when he was supposedly insulted by the Prime Minister. He was the big tough guy. He took it. He did not worry. He thought: 'Nobody is going to worry me with statements like that'. And today he has gone off like a time bomb - a week later. This slow old mind ticked over, and he said to his wife at the weekend: 'I was insulted last Thursday'. Unfortunately somebody reminded him today and so we found that, in synthetic anger, he rose in his place. Exercising that control which he said the Prime Minister did not have, he pointed to one of my colleagues and said: 'You yellow cur'. What restraint this man has in a crisis. He said: 'We all get upset occasionally'. But this is the gentleman who took exception to what the Prime Minister said a few days ago. He said that an honour able member should be able to control his words and he said that the Prime Minister should be a man to whom people can look up. Can honourable members imagine how he looked up to little Billy McMahon and thought that he was the greatest? This is a gentleman who said that a Prime Minister ought be be looked up to. Is it not a farce? No two men in this Parliament use language that is insulting and unparliamentary more than the mover and the seconder of this motion use. No two members hand it out more and no two squeal more when they are hit, and that is precisely what happened today. There is an old axiom in this Parliament: If you cannot take it, do not hand it out. Members of the Australian Country Party always squeal like stuck pigs when they are on the receiving end and that is precisely what happened today. The fact is that this matter has arisen out of a fit of pique, 5 days after the event - delayed action. Let us look at the gentleman who raised this matter. Let us look at what the honourable member 
The honourable member for Barker has had his go. I listened in silence when he was speaking because I was trying to understand what he was saying. However, it has not registered yet. The situation is that last week in this Parliament, on 7 March, the honourable member for New England - do not forget this was said about someone who could not reply - had this to say: 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister. Is the reason he was satisfied with the way in which the McLeod incident was handled because there was something more in the incident than meets the eye? Can the Prime Minister assure the House that neither he nor any member of his personal staff nor his special economic adviser,  Dr Coombs,  was in any way associated with a conspiracy to ensure that the circumstances- 
Fancy that! An allegation was made against a man who did not have the right of reply and who served several Prime Ministers on both sides of the Parliament. The honourable member for New England, the fellow who cries for mercy today, took the contemptible action in this Parliament - I will leave the other bit out because he is sensitive - of attacking  Dr Coombs  while under privilege, and despite what the honourable member has said today, he did not withdraw that allegation against  Dr Coombs.  Is it any wonder that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  exercising the high degree of integrity that we all know he has, rose in this place and defended  Dr Coombs?  Even you,  Mr Speaker,  said: 
Order! I mentioned this standing order only yesterday. As soon as the honourable member mentioned the name of  Dr Coombs  in a critical sense- 
These are your words,  Mr Speaker  - 
I intended to take the point straight away to prevent the honourable gentleman from asking the question. If he wants to ask any questions of that nature, he must put them on the notice paper. The Standing Orders provide quite clearly that in no circumstance is an honourable member able to ask such a question without notice. 
That did not stop this great defender of the rights of members of this Parliament - the man who objects now to these words - from attacking a man whose reputation in this country is unequalled probably by any member of the Public Service anywhere. He knew full well- 
 The honourable member for New England said: 'You must be joking'. He still makes allegations against  Dr Coombs,  by way of interjection. You,  Mr Speaker,  from the Chair, in replying to  Mr Uren,  went on to say: 
The Chair has not the powers to control- 
And you then referred to certain things. The honourable member for New England then said: 
The reason why I mentioned the name of the particular person is that I am not sure how many special economic advisers the Prime Minister might have currently on his staff. 
The honourable member for New England did not care whom he smeared, no matter who was there. Yet when he was supposedly insulted the other day, he sat there, and then, 5 or 6 days later, he wants the statement withdrawn when nearly everybody has forgotten it. Is it any wonder that the Prime Minister rose in his place and defended  Dr Coombs  in regard to this matter? That is when the words, to which the honourable member for New England then took no exception, were used. That is when the Prime Minister used the words that the honourable member for New England sat in his place and beard but to which he did not take any exception because on reflection at the time he realised that they were right in view of the allegations he made against  Dr Coombs.  That is why he did not ask for the words to be withdrawn. He was quietly ashamed of his conduct. However, he would not ask for the words to be withdrawn because he knew the charges he had made against  Dr Coombs  could put him within the category of what was said by the Prime Minister. 
 I only read the question and I ask the House to judge whether it was not an imputation against  Dr Coombs.  Was it any wonder that the Prime Minister rose when that charge was made against  Dr Coombs  and said: 

 Mr Speaker, I raise a point of order. I am used to the contemptible conduct of this honourable gentleman, even so contemptible a creature as the ex-Minister who has asked this question, but he has brought into a question without notice a man of honour and capacity who served successive governments. 
The honourable member for New England sat there as silent as the grave, except that he was sneering and saying: 'What a tough guy I am. That is what he thinks of me but I am not offended'. If the honourable member for New England did not take exception to the words then, why should he come in here and cringe and cry for mercy, 5 days later? The honourable member for New England knows full well that he is just putting on a stunt. He was prepared to undermine the integrity of  Dr Coombs  who has no right in this place to reply to the honourable member. The honourable member for New England then said that he withdrew the charge against  Dr Coombs.  But, of course, one must read Hansard for another 9 pages to find out what was said at page 152. I will read to the House what was said. If this is the kind of apology made by the honourable member for New England, he can keep on insulting me because there is no withdrawal in this. The Hansard reads: 

 Mr SINCLAIR (New England)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Was he, the Prime Minister, or any member of his personal staff including his special economic adviser aware of or in any way associated with . . . I did not in any way impute any irregularity against the Prime Minister or any member of his personal staff. The allegations were accepted by the Prime Minister in a form that was not intended. 
Does anybody think that is a withdrawal of the imputation made against  Dr Coombs?  That is what the honourable member for New England said today. A man who makes a charge against  Dr Coombs  in that manner - 
Not even at that late stage of the debate did the honourable member ask for a withdrawal of the words about which he said he became insulted at the weekend. I think that the honourable member for New England is associating with highly sensitive people over the weekend because in the middle of the week he was not offended at all and now he comes back here today and wants the words withdrawn and we have to revise all the records of Hansard to find them. Consequently, I cannot find anything but a synthetic fury in his approach today to this problem, however the honourable member for New England was not adverse to dropping a few buckets on you,  Mr Speaker  - if I might use that term - on the way through. He endeavoured to reflect on you. It was mentioned by his supporters that you,  Mr Speaker,  should stand every time and protect them when someone from this side answers their vile charges. But no, nothing is too hard for the Opposition when it feels that it can in any way undermine the prestige of this parliament, particularly with bad language. If I wanted a lesson in unparliamentary language, I would spend a lot of time in the Country Party corner, particularly in the company of the honourable members for 
Barker and New England, because if there are two specialists in this Parliament who have all the filthy language that should not be used in this Parliament, they are the two one would look at. 
Opposition Members  -  Withdraw! 
Does the honourable member for New England want me to withdraw filthy' or 'language'? 
I agree,  Mr Speaker.  But I just point out to this House that- 
Opposition Members  -  Withdraw! 
I conclude on this note: If honourable members feel they are offended by something that is said, there is an opportunity for them to ask for withdrawal at the time. As long as I have been in this Parliament, if exception was not taken at the time a statement was made, to my knowledge no  Speaker  has ever revived the matter after that time. Honourable members are entitled later to make a personal explanation if they care. But I would say that if exception is not taken at the time, the matter lapses in regard to offence being taken to insulting language.  Mr Speaker,  you in this Parliament have exercised the wisdom of Solomon on a number of occasions. I admire your judgment and I respect the decisions that you give,  Mr Speaker.  I am only sorry that your, tolerance and understanding are occasionally mistaken by honourable_members on the other side of the House for weakness and that they are not accorded the sort of justice which, in my view, they deserve. Having said -so much and confirmed what I think is the practice in this Parliament in respect of this matter, and as I think that there has been enough talk in this debate and that the business of the Parliament should proceed, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I present the Report of the Australian Branch Delegation to the Nineteenth Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference held in London during September 1973. I move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The Nineteenth Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference was held in London from 8 to 22 September 1973. It was attended by some 210 delegates and secretaries representing 87 branches of the Association with a total membership of over 8,000 parliamentarians, and by some 7 observers from the Congress of the United States, the Parliament of the Republic of Ireland, the European Parliament, the European Economic Commission, the Council of Europe, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the Commonwealth Secretariat and the Commonwealth Foundation. .Australia was represented by a delegate from each of the States and the Northern Territory and by 6 delegates from the Commonwealth of Australia Branch with myself as Leader and General Councillor, Doctor the Honourable A. J. Forbes as  Deputy  Leader,  Mr R.  H. Sherry, M.P., as alternate General Councillor,  Mr A.  A. Staley, M.P.,  Senator Cant  and  Senator Lawrie.  The 
Conference was opened in Westminster Hall by  Her  Majesty the Queen, who was introduced by  Sir Alex  Douglas-Home, the  President  of the Association, who was supported by  Mr Edward  Heath, the then British Prime Minister. 
In her opening address,  Her  Majesty referred to the occasion when the Presiding Officers of the Parliaments of the Commonwealth assembled in Westminster Hall to celebrate the Seventh Centenary of Simon de Montfort's Parliament, and observed that during the 700 years that followed, Parliament has developed its role through periods of change as the guardian of the liberties of the people.  Her  Majesty also referred to the importance of the Commonwealth in promoting bridges of communication, not only between its members but also between them and the rest of the world. This Conference followed the well-established pattern of plenary and committee sessions, except that on this occasion an innovation was the introduction of panel discussions on economic problems. This was a popular innovation which promoted lively and searching discussion on intra-Commonwealth trade, regional economic arrangements and international monetary reform. The headings of discussion in the Conference were: The Enlarged European Community and the Commonwealth', 'World Security', 'The Future of Territories in the Commonwealth', 'Commonwealth Immigration Policies', 'Parliamentary Government (in its various aspects)', and 'Economic Problems and Social Problems', the last two being taken in committee session. Regrettably, because of parliamentary commitments, I and 3 other members of the delegation had to return to Australia, and this severely curtailed the Branch opportunities to take part in the discussions. Nevertheless, the delegation did take part in debate on the European Economic Community, World Security, the Protection of the Environment, Commonwealth Immigration Policies and the Status and Role of the Parliamentarian in contemporary society. 
Outside the Conference forum itself, members of the delegation had many opportunities for informal discussions with their counterparts from the other countries of the Commonwealth. These informal exchanges are of the greatest importance in contributing to the resolution of differences within the Commonwealth and beyond it, and in strengthening the sense of community that exists in the 
Commonwealth. There are, of course, many organisations working in the field of Commonwealth relations, but the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association is unique in that it provides for a regular interchange of views between legislators on the broadest of bases of political affiliation, government and opposition, race, creed, custom and tradition. The Nineteenth Conference was the first Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference to be held since Britain formally entered the European Economic Community, and the first to be held in Britain since she opened negotiations to enter the Common Market. As could be expected, with the European Parliament, the European Economic Commission and the Council of Europe, all represented by observers, there was a full dress debate on matters affecting British, Common Market and Commonwealth relationships. Under the heading of 'World Security', the Conference welcomed the report from the South Asian members that India, Pakistan and Bangladesh had now seemed to reach a working accommodation, which has led to the easing of tension and created a climate in which the 3 nations on the sub-continent can now work together to fight the problems of want, poverty and development. 
As I mentioned earlier, the pattern of discussions on economic problems made for succinct and incisive debate. Not all members had the same answers to the same problems, and some may have even had the wrong answers, but I am sure that all parliamentarians can gain something from the debate, and I commend this section of the report to the attention of honourable members of this House. Delegates found a great deal of common ground in their approach to social problems, particularly in their realisation of the threat of irreparable damage to the environment. Discussion on 'Parliamentary Government' generally showed that within the Commonwealth there were several divergent views, and underlined the fact that the Westminster model of parliamentary democracy is no longer a common characteristic of the Commonwealth. The debate, however, was conducted with tolerant understanding by the several proponents of differing forms of democracy, each recognising that the form taken in the separate countries of the Commonwealth must depend to a great degree on national life in these countries and the stan dard of education and culture and on their state of economic development. Honourable members will recall that when the report on the Eighteenth Conference in Malawi was tabled in this House a year ago, the delegation to that Conference instanced certain anomalies in the organisation of the General Council of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and its Executive Committee, and in the financial stability of the Association. Consequently, this branch prepared and circulated a paper which included certain proposals for the reorganisation of its managing bodies, and for improving its financial status. These proposals were based on our opinion that the composition of these bodies should reflect, firstly, some form of proportional representation of their individual members; secondly, regional representation of its several branches; and thirdly, the financial contribution of individual branches. Our proposals were put in 4 parts. That concerning financial contributions was accepted and even enlarged upon by the Executive Committee of the General Council without debate. I might say that at the annual general meeting our proposals, with several minor amendments acceptable to this branch, were adopted unanimously. I feel that our branch can be pleased at having these proposals adopted. 
I think it is appropriate to record the generous tribute paid to this branch by the Honourable J. J. Connolly of Canada, a former  President  of the Association, when he graciously remarked that he considered that the Association:  . . should be very much indebted to the Australian Branch for the initiatives they have taken in respect of the Constitution of the Association. They are the people who in 1965 originally proposed the establishment of the Executive Committee. That was a salutary step in the conduct of the affairs of the Association. It has been the Australian initiative again to see the matter through, to see exactly what the circumstances of the Association at this time required, that has led to these proposals. I simply say to you,  Mr Chairman,  and to the Australian Branch, that I hope they continue to keep a watchful eye on the Constitution of the Association.' 
Before concluding my remarks I should like to pay tribute to the United Kingdom Branch and to its hard working Secretary,  Mr Peter  Molloy, for offering us such generous hospitality, making Conference arrangements and affording us every opportunity to meet and confer with fellow parliamentarians from all over the world. 
I should also like to express our appreciation of the Secretary-General,  Sir Robin  Vanderfelt and his staff who conducted the Conference with their usual efficiency. Nor should I let this occasion pass without recording the assistance rendered the delegation by the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library and by executive departments in providing background material relating to the agenda items. I should like the officers concerned to know that this material, which they provide for delegations every year, is most useful. The delegation will also wish me to place on record its sincere appreciation of the help and hospitality extended to it by the Australian High Commissioner in London,  His Excellency  the Honourable J. I. Armstrong and  Mrs Armstrong.  I also express my thanks to the members of the delegation for their support in the presentation of Australia's views. 
Lastly, but certainly not least, all my colleagues of the delegation will join with me in thanking our indefatigable secretary, the inscrutabale  Mr N.  J. Parkes, the  Clerk  of this House, for his unobstrusive efficiency in anticipating all our requirements. I think a word of thanks might also go to  Mr Ferguson,  the Secretary of the Committee at home, for the ground work he did in preparing us for the conference in London. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In that case, I seek leave to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
Yes. In the course of his speech a few moments ago the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that I would not allow a debate on the subject of immigration. I point out to the honourable member that the debate on the AddressinReply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen is now proceeding and that the honourable members are entitled to open up any subject in that debate. I invite the honourable member for Wannon and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  to participate in it and to go to the full limit of their time on any subject of the Government's administration, including the subject that has been raised'. I have no power to curtail that. That is purely in the hands of the House. If the honourable member for Wannon wishes to discuss immigration, I invite him to get up and put up or shut up. He will have an opportunity to do so. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has said that there will be full opportunity for any member of this Parliament, especially myself and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  to speak about immigration in the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen. The Leader of the House knows full well that that does not meet our request. It is not the same as a specific debate on immigration policy. The Leader of the House also knows full well that it will be his intention to gag that debate. He has suggested that it is not within his power to stop it, but he will certainly be curtailing debate on the issue. 

 Mr GRASSBY (Riverina - Minister for Immigration) -  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a personal explanation. I have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in many ways, but there is one specific misrepresentation that I must correct because it will be in the records of the House. The honourable member for Wannon - a former Minister - suggested and stated during the course of his remarks that I had made no statement on immigration to this Parliament. I draw attention to the fact that on 11 October 1973 I sought leave to make a statement but was denied leave to do so by the Opposition, which now wants me to make a further statement. I made that statement by tabling it because that was the only way in which I was permitted to do so by the Opposition, which has now suggested that there should be a debate on the subject. I suggest that honourable members opposite are confused and ought to do their homework. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon)- I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker.  Admittedly I am relying on my memory, but that action, as I understand it, was taken for the very same reason, that is, the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  would give no guarantee that there would be an opportunity for a full and proper debate on the issue. He is doing everything he can to prevent debate. The Opposition will cooperate with the Government if there is going to be an opportunity for a fair and reasonable debate, but not if there is going to be a use of the guillotine and of jackboot tactics by the Leader of the House. 

 Mr DALY (Grayndler - Leader of the House) - I have been again misrepresented,  Mr Speaker.  The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  makes a lot of unsubstantiated statements. I understand that he even makes them about the Australia Party. Today he has said that the Government would not allow a full and adequate debate on the Minister's statement. What the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  has stated is correct. When he sought to make a statement in this House on immigration on a previous occasion leave was denied to him to do so and he had no alternative but to present a paper without comment. I suggest that the honourable member for Wannon, who voted for the guillotining of 17 Bills in 19 hours, should be the last one to mention the suppression of debate. 
I move: 
That the report be printed. 
I explain to the House that  this  motion is purely formal. If the House agrees to it I shall immediately move that the consideration of the report be made an order of the day for a future day, which will give all honourable members an opportunity to study the report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for the next sitting. 
I require that the question be put forthwith. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I thank the honourable member for the question, which has a very close relationship to the proposed amending electoral legislation. For the benefit of the House, I might say, the name changing of political parties all started at the top, particularly in the Liberal Party.  Sir Robin  Askin changed his name to the more trendy Robert. The Leader of the Opposition changed his name to Bill - more trendy - and my old colleague the honourable member for Mackellar prefers to be known as William Charles instead of W. C. However, I think it is carrying it a bit too far and is very complicating in the legislation when political parties change their names to be with it. 
I now refer to  Senator George  Hannan, the well liked and respected colleague' of the Leader of the Opposition, who shocked his former associates yesterday when he announced his resignation to lead a 3-man Liberal team called the National Liberal Party at this year's Senate election in Victoria. Of course it will complicate the legislation that I have under review. The legislation is already complicated by the announced change of name of the Country Party, which lists itself under a variety of noms de plume such as the 'National Alliance', the 'National Party of Australia' and the 'National Country Party'. Furthermore I understand that some of these titles are on a week to week basis and subject to change without notice to meet the circumstances. This, of course, is not only intriguing but also makes it exceedingly difficult administratively and legislatively, and for the public to follow. It is only fair to say, however, that the less the public knows about the Country Party the more chance it has of winning votes. 
The new National Liberal Party of Australia does complicate the legislation and, very regrettably, adds to the disunity in the ranks of this once great Party. To differentiate, it may be necessary to refer to  Senator Hannan's  party as the 'National Liberal Party - Nontrendy' and to the Liberal Party of Australia as 'Liberal Party - trendy'. From the sartorial splendour of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition I can see that he will be amongst the trendies. Whichever way one looks at it, it is a frightening prospect. But the public is entitled to know precisely the difference between the parties, and this will be covered by the legislation. Of course, there is no knowing what other changes will take place in the Liberal Party in Victoria. Even the Leader of the Country Party referred to the Victorian Liberals as 'idiotic' - and he ought to know. If I might borrow a phrase from the Leader of the Opposition, I would say that it is 'all so confusing for me and the public' and, if I might borrow a phrase from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I might say that 'it is making a mockery and a farce of polities'. 
I assure the honourable member that I will do my best to see that the legislation covers the many gaps in the ranks of the trendy Liberals and provides for any number of breakaway parties, because far be it from me to aid the disintegration of - if I may repeat - this once great Party. I would like to assure the electors that on the ballot papers the name Australian Labor Party' will be clearly shown against many candidates. I assure them that there will be no confusion about those candidates. That Party is superbly led; it is united; its policies are magnificent; its rank and file are dedicated, intelligent, capable and successful. In quite a non-political way, to assist honourable members opposite in their hour of need and to avoid the confusion that exists between the trendy and the non-trendy Liberals, the Country Party Alliance, the National Alliance and the National Country Party, I suggest that the best way to make a formal vote in any following election is to vote No. 1 for ALP candidates. 
 We all know that honourable members opposite are suffering under great stress today. Therefore, in order to give them an opportunity to recover their equilibrium, I move: 
That the question be now put. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has the initials of W.C. No man in this Parliament is more appropriately named. If any person's parents had intelligence those who christened him did. No wonder he prefers to go under the name of William Charles. No man in this country with a more despicable record in ancestry so far as the exploitation of the people of Australia is concerned lives up to the reputation. 
Motion (by  Mr Killen)  put: 
That the Leader of the House be not further heard. 
(9.1)  -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with the greatest pleasure I move: 
That the honourable member for Balaclava be suspended from the service of the House. 
Question put - 
That the honourable member for Balaclava be suspended from the service of the House. 
 The motion before the House, moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  proposes that your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  that the words of the Leader of the Opposition be stricken from the Hansard record, be dissented from. Amazingly, it is seconded by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  The words that you,  Mr Speaker,  asked be struck from the Hansard record were a reference by the Leader of the Opposition to the appointment of  Senator Gair  as Australian Ambassador to Eire. These are the words used by the Leader of the Opposition. He said: 'It is the most shameful act ever perpetrated by an Australian Government'. 
I was, as you said,  Mr Speaker,  pointing out the words that were objected to and which you directed be struck from the Hansard record. Amazingly, I say, the Leader of the Australian Country Party rose in this place and endorsed those words of the Leader of the Opposition about a member of his own Party and said that the Government was corrupt. 
 Mr Speaker,  you ordered that those words used by the Leader of the Opposition be struck from Hansard because, in my mind, they exemplify a disgraceful reflection on a member of the Senate who is to be  Her  Majesty's Australian Ambassador to Eire. No self-respecting  Speaker  of this House and no man with your responsibilities,  Mr Speaker,  could have taken any other action than to have removed from the Hansard record some of the most despicable words ever used by a Leader of the Opposition and the leader of a party about one of his own members in this Parliament- 

 - Mr Speaker- 


 - Mr Speaker- 

Opposition supporters  -  Sit down! 
I will proceed that way. They should be struck from the record because the person to whom they applied - the cause of this uproar this morning by the Opposition - is a very distinguished member of the Senate and is now to be Ambassador to Ireland. In the course of saying why these words should not be struck from the Hansard record the Leader of the Opposition went to some lengths to say certain things about  Senator Gair.  He, at times, has had a very high opinion of  Senator Gair.  On 4 October last- 
 Mr Speaker,  just briefly in the few minutes at my disposal, this motion arose out of certain statements made by the Leader of the Opposition which, no matter how he tries to avoid it, reflected on  Her  Majesty's Ambassador to Dublin. I can understand  Pis  attitude because  Senator Gair  is on record - and I will mention what prompted him - as saying about him that he could not go 2 rounds with a revolving door and he could not make an impression on a cushion. The honourable member is getting his own back today. I will read  Senator Gairs  words. He said:  'Mr Snedden- 
As a matter of fact, he said: He is a bloody lightweight'. 
 Mr Speaker,  far be it from me to transgress your ruling but you will agree that this is only the second minute of my 15- minute speech and I have not quite got back on the beam. What I say at this stage,  Mr Speaker,  is that those words should have been stricken from the record. Your judgment was sound on that. Never in my time, nor do I think in yours,  Mr Speaker,  have such words used in reference to the appointment of a distinguished person been allowed by any  Speaker  to go into the Hansard record. I am sure that the former High Commissioner to the United Kingdom, now sitting in the gallery, would not have liked to hear those words describe him on his appointment. Neither would other former members of this House like Jos Francis, in days gone by, Roger Dean, Dame Annabelle Rankin, Gordon Freeth or any of the former appointees. Having said so much, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
For the information of honourable members I present a record of decisions of the special meeting of the Tourist Ministers Council held at the Sydney Opera House, dated 21 September 1973. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indul gence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Commonwealth Banks Bill 1974, as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 I thank the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke).  I think it was a little unfair of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  to imply that the sittings of the House were arranged as a mark of disrespect to Anzac Day. This year presents great difficulties in relation to the sittings of the Parliament because of Easter and other holidays and the Senate election. When the sitting days were originally laid down it was indicated to honourable members that in making any appointments they should keep in mind that changes might be made in the sitting days laid down in the light of political developments. The Government has arranged for the House to rise at 4.15 p.m. on Wednesday, 24 April. I have been advised that only a handful of honourable members will not be able to be back in their electorates that night. If the honourable member for Maranoa has such an important engagement that he wants to keep it should not be difficult for him to find an appropriate pair. 
We had to decide whether the House should sit in the week after Easter or in the week in which Anzac Day falls. The fact that the sitting of the House will be adjourned early on the Wednesday will reduce the sitting times that week by 6 or 7 hours. The House will adjourn early in order to enable honourable members to get back to their electorates that night. It is most unfair to say that there was any intention to show disrespect to Anzac Day. Quite frankly Anzac Day is just as important to honourable members on this side of the House as it is to honourable members on the other side of the House. We all know what Anzac Day symbolises. I just say to the honourable member for Maranoa that his remarks tonight did not do him justice. If he is involved in the way that he says he is involved and he sees me I will be pleased to ascertain whether I can arrange an appropriate pair for him. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and Appropriation Bill (No. 5) 1973-74 as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both Bills? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be adopted. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent - 
a Health Insurance Bill 1973 and a Health Insurance Commission Bill 1973 &lt;a) being presented forthwith and read a first time together and one motion being moved without delay and one question being put in regard to, respectively, the second readings, the committee's report stage, and the third readings, of the Bills together, and 
the consideration of the Bills in one committee of the whole. 
the Leader of the House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time- 
You are as silly as your ancestors. 
 I declare that the following Bills are urgent Bills: 
 I move: 
That notwithstanding the order of the House of 7 March 1974, the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
For the second readings of the Bills, until 9.45 p.m. this day. 
For the Committee stage of the Bills, until 10.00 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages of the Bills, until 10.15 p.m. this day. 
If these Bills had not been before the House previously and if they had not received adequate discussion on a previous occasion, the time allotted for their consideration might be considered not to be sufficient. But having in mind that these Bills were debated at length on a previous occasion, having in mind also that those opposite had adequate time to discuss them on that occasion, and having in mind all the details associated with them are known and that all the criticism that could be made by the Opposition was made and would only be repeated tonight over and over again parrot-like, there is no reason to extend the time allowed for a debate on these matter . I thought that honourable members opposi were anxious to get to the electors. So why should we delay them in this place that they seek to leave so quickly, even from the Opposition benches. I believe that adequate time is being allowed for debate. It was mentioned earlier that honourable members opposite had been given no notice of what was to happen tonight. I point out that we were given no notice of what happened before the dinner suspension. 
Opposition members - Ha! Ha! 
They say: 'Ha! Ha!' As I  iid, before the dinner suspension the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  presented what he had to say without notice to this side of the chamber, and I have returned the compliment this evening. When I am as complimentary and as decent as the Leader oi the Opposition in returning his favour I do not think there should be any objection. The funny thing about the Liberal Party and the Country Party is that they want all one way traffic. They can do what they like but everybody else has to go by the Marquis of Queensberry rules. The situation is that these Bills are to be introduced into the place tonight and they are to go to another place urgently. We hope they will be debated in another place before the coming elections and we hope that honourable members will see that this is one of the issues which must be discussed not only in this Parliament but also before the Australian people whenever they are allowed to vote. 
I do not wish to take up the time of the House. But one thing about the Opposition spokesman on health matters is that on these issues he is co-operative in preventing the taking up of the time of debate by the making of speeches such as the one I am making. I thought I should make that broad observation in order that the Opposition might understand the purposes of these Bills and the fact that nothing new is contained in them. They are the same as the former legislation. They have been fully discussed. The House has had adequate time to deal with them and the time which is proposed to be provided tonight should be ample to enable honourable members opposite to speak and to let this legislation go to another place without delay. Quite frankly, I have no doubt what will happen to these Bills in this House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The subdivisional enrolment figures for each electoral division in New South Wales to the latest date available are set out in the table below: 
It is significant that almost immediately after the public announcement that the Labor Government had endorsed proposals for the public disclosure of campaign funds, the Liberal Party announced that it would vote against Supply in the Senate. Such an event cannot pass unnoticed. I believe that undoubtedly the Government's announcement concerning the revelation of where multinational funds come from that are delivered to the Liberal Party was a major factor that caused the Liberal Party to make its announcement. In today's 'Australian' there is a full page advertisement headed 'When strong determined leaders meet, big things happen'. In that advertisement we see a photograph of the handsome Leader of the Country Party and his counterpart in Brisbane. By the way, they are launching a new name, that is good. 
We have just witnessed an electioneering act put on by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in a most despicable and contemptible way. Rarely in my time in this Parliament have I heard the Leader of the Opposition, who would be better occupied haunting houses than trying to be Prime Minister, in worse form. The same is true of the Leader of the Australian Country Party.  Mr Speaker,  let this be a lesson to you. Your tolerance, understanding and decency are not appreciated. The two worst offenders in this Parliament are the two who have spoken to this motion. If the Standing Orders were strictly enforced the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  would never be in this House and his Leader would be outside with him most of the time. The attempt to attack you,  Sir, is  a thinly veiled attack on the Prime Minister and almost everybody else on this side. I will tell you why they have put on this act today. In another place they are trying to muster the numbers to vote against supply. All over the weekend and at all hours of the night they have been trying to get their colleagues to vote against supply and we are forced to debate this motion so that the business of the House will be held up. This motion is the means of deliberately stopping us from passing the Appropriation Bill. 
The Leader of the Country Party said that Ministers are long-winded. Does he know that his former respected leader,  Sir John  McEwen, took 27 minutes one day to answer a question? When he had finished he still had not said anything. That is the situation. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has been named today. I do not know whether he should have gone out today but I do know that he has stayed in many times when he should have gone out. That is the third time during the life of this Government that he has been suspended. He is more unruly and disrespectful to the Chair than any other member I have seen in the Parliament. There is no doubt that today members of the Country Party and others will do anything to disrupt the proceedings of the Parliament. Anybody who has had any experience in this Parliament will have observed the trend in recent weeks. As soon as question time starts the rabble opposite act like a rabble and try to convey to the people outside that their behaviour is your fault. You have an exemplary collection of men on the government benches. They are highly intelligent and respectful to the dignity of the Parliament. Not one member from this side has been named; that is because of our exemplary conduct and the way we adhere to your rulings. 
How often has the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party deliberately flouted you? You will remember that the other day the Leader of the Opposition said that all interjections should be in order. Let me remind the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Country Party that you,  Sir, are  the unanimous choice of this Parliament. If they thought that the things they were putting over today in their electioneering speech were correct, why did they not oppose your appointment to the Chair? They know full well that you are the unanimous choice of this Parliament. All honourable members opposite supported your election as  Speaker.  They all voted for you and said what a remarkable man you are. Today, for downright rotten political ends the Leader of the Country Party demeaned himself. Knowing full well you cannot reply he said things in a contemptible and miserable way that he would not be game to say if you were on the floor and able to reply as I am doing today. 
The trouble with the Leader of the Country Party is that he is believing the propaganda of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. He is beginning to believe that the things he is writing about himself are correct. On 27 February 1973 the Leader of the Country Party said: 

 Mr Speaker, on behalf of the parliamentary members of the Australian Country Party, I congratulate you on your unanimous election to the position of the supreme office bearer of the House of Representatives. I wish you well. I hope that you can fulfil your role with great dignity and distinction. . . . 
He went on to say: 
You have displayed to this House at times a great sense of humour through your interjections. I hope that, when the atmosphere becomes tense and tempers are high, you will be able to draw on this wit to defuse that atmosphere and to maintain order. 
Now we have the Leader of the Opposition saying that he is no good. 
Yes, he is disorderly already. On the same day the Leader of the Opposition said: 
The practice of this Parliament is to select the  Speaker  from the Party which has the majority of members in this House. In recent years there has been a practice in which the nominee of the majority Party has been opposed from the other side of the House. We did not adopt that course on this occasion, as is apparent to everybody. 
I  will tell honourable members opposite why.  It  is because they know he is the fairest and the most just man on this side of the Parliament for the position. The haunter of houses, who has justleft the chamber, went on to pay tribute to your wit,  Mr Speaker.  He then said: 
We will not interject while you are speaking . . . 

 Mr Speaker, you can hardly be heard sometimes for the rabble of the yahoos opposite. The Leader of the Opposition continued: 
. provided that you do not speak for too long. We will be courteous at all times, provided that you do not provoke us. 

 Mr Speaker, you have to be jolly decent to members of the Opposition. You are not to offend them at all and are not to give a decision against them when they play up. You are not to call them to order. The Leader of the Opposition went on: 
Further, we will be parliamentarians at alltimes, no matter what the circumstances. 
This brings me to the phoney motion which the Opposition has moved today. One of the problems of this Parliament has been the the deliberate tactics of the Leader of the Country Party and also the Leader of the Opposition who, instead of setting a high standard of parliamentary conduct, have decided that members of their parties who sit behind them will look and act like a rabble in this Parliament. They have endeavoured to do so by upsetting you,  Mr Speaker.  They have tried to convey over the air by yelling, screaming and walking out occasionally, that the Chair cannot control them. It is difficult for anybody to control people who act like hooligans. It is difficult to control people who pay no respect to the dignity of this Parliament. That is precisely what the Leader of the Country Party does. I know what members of the Country Party do. They even have beer bottles and Lord knows what in Forrest Place. They fight it the hard way, and good luck to them. But when they are throwing their bottles and beer cans in this place at the  Speaker  they should not expect him to be as tolerant as others have to be who cannot defend themselves. 
A similar motion was moved some time ago. I repeat that this motion has been moved to allow the Liberal Party in particular to go into another place and see whether it can get the numbers. We want to debate the Appropriation Bills but the shuddering members who sit opposite said: 'No, do something to the  Speaker.  Whatever you do do not bring the vote on because we like this place. We only have a couple of week to go if there is an election'. That is the reason why this motion has been moved today. I do not intend to prolong this debate at great length but I say to you,  Mr Speaker,  that your tolerance and understanding has been taken for weakness by those opposite. No  Speaker  has put up with more disreputable conduct from those who sit opposite or with the misuse of parliamentary proceedings. The Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Country Party or the National Party, whatever the blessed name is this Monday, do not show any respect to you at all and they seek, by leading their people against the Standing Orders, to infuriate you to such an extent that the public will think that you are the one responsible. 

 Mr Speaker, you have added dignity, understanding, tolerance and fairness to this Parliament. Your judgment has been as wise as that of Solomon. In the face of great misuse of the Standing Orders by those who sit opposite your patience has astounded me and members on this side of the Parliament. I say to members of the public at large that if they could all come here and see this Parliament in action, there would be no doubt, when they look at those who sit opposite, as to who is responsible for any misconduct in this place. It is undoubtedly the ringleader opposite. I want the Appropriation Bills to be voted on. I want to see those opposite line up in another place and see what they will do. I do not want the members of the Liberal Party who are organising the vote wandering around any longer than is necessary in order to get the parties' members into line. This motion was moved exclusively for that purpose. I again congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  as the unanimous choice of this Parliament. You have the complete confidence of everyone. As it is now time that we should get on with the real business of the House, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I move: 
That the House of Representatives approves of the redistribution of the State of Western Australia into electoral divisions as proposed by Messrs B. S. Nicholls, W. G. Henderson and J. W. Robson, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into divisions, in their report laid before the House of Representatives on the 12th day of March 1974, and that the names of the divisions suggested in the report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted, except that the name of 'Tangney' be substituted for O'Connor'. 
The Government has now considered the report of the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Western Australia, together with the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Commissioners in pursuance of Sections 18(A) and 21 respectively of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, and has decided to recommend approval of the Distribution Commissioners' proposals, in the expectation that both Houses will ensure that the Governor-General may be enabled to proclaim this redistribution at an early date. Such an action will ensure that the people of Western Australia are able to elect the 10 members of the House of Representatives to which they are entitled. 
The possibility that the people of Western Australia may be required to vote for the House of Representatives earlier than the Distribution Commissioners may have expected has, in the Government's view, simply given additional urgency to the need for action in this matter. This will presumably be one matter upon which the Government and all Opposition parties in both Houses can agree. The Government has noted that the Distribution Commissioners' final proposals are virtually unchanged as compared with those published in October, 1973, despite the substantial body of criticism made by the various political parties, individual parliamentarians and other competent or interested citizens. 
The Government wishes to voice what it considers to be 3 valid grounds for criticism, though these grounds, taken either singly or together, are not, in the Government's view, sufficiently serious to warrant rejection of the overall proposals, particularly given the present requirements for equitable Western Australian representation in this House. The Government's reservations, all or some of which are shared by people outside the Australian Labor Party, can be summarised as follows: Firstly, while it is pleasing to note that the previous and existing inequalities in voting power as between the electors in various divisions have, on the whole, been reduced - this refers not just to inequalities between urban and rural electorates, but also among urban electorates themselves - the position is still unsatisfactory. 
The Commissioners have seen fit to vary the proposed Kalgoorlie Division by 15.57 per cent below quota and the proposed Swan Division by 14.12 per cent over, although the variations from the quota have lessened in both cases since July, 1973, and now stand at about 11 per cent under and 12 per cent over the quota respectively. Had the next House of Representatives election in Western Australia not been held until 1975, it is likely that the gap between enrolments in these 2 Divisions would have closed considerably. Both of them would have come under 10 per cent variation from the quota. However, it would have been preferable for the situation to have taken place immediately. Incidentally, this comment relating to the inequality of voting power between electors in Kalgoorlie and Swan is not based on party political considerations, but on the consideration of equal voting power, as nearly as is practicable, for all Australians, irrespective of their place of residence. These 2 Divisions are represented in the House by Australian Labor Party members. 
At least the situation under the new boundaries will, be more tolerable than at present, with nearly 80,000 electors in the existing Divisions of Stirling as against about 55,000 in the existing Division of Forrest, based on enrolments at the end of March, 1974 for the exsting 9 divisions. The Government regards as intolerable this present degree of inequality among Western Australian electors, even though it is not so brazen as in the State Parliament, where Legislative Assembly seat enrolments vary from about 2,000 to 21,000 and Legislative Council from 6,000 to 88,000. 
Secondly, the Government also considers that Distribution Commissioners could well have exercised a little more imagination and flexibility with regard to the need to split up certain existing subdivisions, particularly one or two in the outer metropolitan area, such as the Subdivision of Pearce, which has gained an enrolment increase of over 30 per cent since July, 1973. To a lesser degree, this criticism could also be applied to the Commissioners' decision to reject suggestions relating to the possibility of splitting one or two inner metropolitan subdivisions, such as Mt Hawthorn and Joondanna, in order to satisfy more completely the 'community of interest' principle. However, in this respect, the Government acknowledges that such anomalies are less striking than in some previous redistributions. 
Thirdly, related to the points I have just raised, the Government also considers that, in particular, the Commissioners have proposed inappropriate boundaries between Moore and Stirling Divisions, although some improvement as compared with the present situation has been made with regard to the boundaries between Perth and Moore and Swan and Moore Divisions respectively, though even in the latter case it should have been possible to include more of the north-east urban corridor areas in a metropolitan electorate. The Commissioners, unfortuately for the present Honourable Member for Moore  (Mr Maisey),  have failed to allow for the rapid rate of population growth in the southern portion of the Pearce SubDivision, not to mention substantial growth in the Kalamunda Sub-Division. Hence, there is already the situation where the supposedly rural electorate of Moore contains mainly metropolitan electors, and has already outstripped the adjacent inner metropolitan electorate ot Stirling in number of electors. 
The new member will have a difficult task of serving the electorate covering both rural areas and many rapidly expanding outer metropolitan areas, while the member for Stirling will serve fewer electors, all of them in the metropolitan area. I merely note that this seems to be a rather odd interpretation of the obligations imposed on the Commissioners by the criteria contained in Section 19, Subsection 2, of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. It is also contrary to their views on the provisions of Section 19, Sub-section 1, of the Commonwealth Electoral Act in Curtin, Kalgoorlie and Swan Divisions. 
In view of the constant criticism by Liberal and Country Party members of the electoral policy of the Australian Labor Party, it is interesting to note that the 'West Australian', on October 19, 1973, had this to say about the original proposals which remain practically unchanged: 
At first assessment there appears little fault to find with redistribution proposals. 
It went on to say: 
The distribution proposals have still to run the gauntlet of objections before they reach Canberra. But there does not appear to be need for a major change. No Party has much to complain about. 
Finally, as regards the naming of the new tenth Division, the Government has given due consideration to the suggestions made by various people, including the Commissioners. The names of an eminent deceased engineer, an Aboriginal tracker and a Country Party Prime Minister have been among those mentioned. The Government is also aware that various explorers and pioneers, not to mention deceased colonial Governors, have been honoured in this way. However, it has been decided on this occasion to honour a living person, who was indeed a pioneer in. a very real sense. I refer to Dame Dorothy Tangney, who relinquished her teaching career in Western Australia to become the first woman member of the Commonwealth Senate in 1943, and serving West Australians, and Australia as a whole, during which time she held many responsible positions, including that of Temporary Chairman of Committees in the Senate. The Government is delighted to have this opportunity to honour a distinguished West Australian in this fitting manner. 
 in reply - I shall be very brief in my remarks. I think that this debate has been a very placid but constructive one for a debate of this nature. With one exception I very much thank those honourable members who have participated in it. The honourable member for Gwyder  (Mr Hunt),  who acquired wide knowledge of this subject during the time in which it came under his ministerial responsibility, will no doubt be in agreement with what has been said by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  The formalities involved in a redistribution, even in the Australian Capital Territory, take roughly 28 to 32 weeks to complete. There are certain provisions laid down which make it difficult to speed up the process. 
Let us not argue now about why the report of the Distribution Commissioners was not tabled in the Parliament earlier. I know the problems involved in relation to the returns of the Commonwealth Statistician. The fact of the matter is that there has been no undue delay on the part of the Government, The report was presented to this Parliament within 5 sitting days of when I received it. The matter was referred back to the Commissioners last October for reconsideration. Because of the referendums in the intervening period and the holiday period the report was not presented by me until 5 days after the Parliament assembled. As the Minister for Education said, we did not know of the events that were to come and naturally we did not have to rush this matter. I notice that he said that when  Mr Freeth  was the Minister in charge of electoral matters in 1 962 he took from 4 October to 29 November to bring such a matter on for debate. I am . not being critical in that respect because the matter had to take its place in the line, honourable members had to consider it and maps had to be printed. I therefore feel it is very unfair of the honourable member for Stirling to make such accusations because, in all faith, the Government is entitled to consider the report. 
It is as well to have some constructive criticism from both sides of the Parliament, be it at ministerial level or otherwise, and there should be opportunities to express agreement or disagreement with the Commissioners. In that respect, I am in agreement with the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  who said that these reports might well be more informative. I believe that in that respect, adequate staff and research staff should be provided for the Electoral Commissioners because in this day and age redistributing boundaries and forecasting population trends are not things that unskilled men can carry out. Many times, the Commissioners are too involved in the actual work of redistribution and in their other activities to do these things. Consequently, I am giving consideration to those matters. But I think it is most unfair and unjust of the honourable member for Stirling to reflect on  Mr Ley  and his officers and the Commissioner in saying that there was administrative laxity in respect of their activities, because whether we agree or disagree with the Commissioners - none of us as politicians will agree with all their actions - undoubtedly they do maintain a high degree of integrity and application. If there are any shortcomings in the work of the Commissioners, they are probably due to lack of facilities more than anything implied by the honourable member for Stirling. 
I should like to refer to one other matter in regard tothe question of statistical returns of population,I am one who believes that by some method or other, Australia must speed up its method of ascertaining its population. When I was in Canada last year,I was informed that they are in a position to provide the population of various areas almost from week to week. If one asked for the population of electorates in Australia and if one wanted accurate figures, one would probably be given the position as at the 1971 census. That is just too far to go back. We should be able to speed up the process because all these things are entwined with what we are discussing here today. In any case,I assure honourable members that there was no delay in presenting the documents. It was difficult to get them printed. It is not always possible to give everyone a copy. I thank honourable members for what has been a constructive approach to this debate.I understand that there is, naturally, disagreement on this matter. 
I also thank the House for its compliments on the name chosen for the new electorate in Western Australia, Tangney.I served in this Parliament with Dame Dorothy Tangney. I entered Parliament on the same day as  Senator Tangney  in 1943. She is a notable Australian and a notable Western Australian. With others, I regret that such names as O'Connor and others could not have been chosen at this stage, but as time goes on no doubt we will be given an opportunity to honour such people in a manner similar to that in which we have honoured  Senator Dorothy  Tangney. On a lighter note, I suppose that the member for the new electorate will become known as the honourable member for DDT - Dame Dorothy Tangney. So, it will not be easy to forget who is the member for that electorate, whoever he may be in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill now before the House is an interim measure to provide for 2 members for the 
Australian Capital Territory in the event of a general election for this House before the Distribution Committeefor the Australian Capital Territory has completed its task. This Parliament has already enacted legislation supported by the Opposition to give the Australian Capital territory 2 membersfrom the next House of Representatives election. The appropriate procedures for the Division of the Australian Capital Territory into 2 areas have been in train for some time but, because of the unprecedented threat made by the Opposition to deny Supply to a popularly elected Government, it may be necessary to hold a general election for this House before the Committee has completed its task. If a general election for this House is held without the passage of the interim measure proposed by this Bill, the people of the nation's capital will be denied any form of democratic representation. 
The Australian Capital Territory is one or the fastest growing centres of population in the country but it has traditionally been one of the most under-represented areas in our polity. By definition, the people of the Territory have no State parliament and, by the refusal of previous Liberal-Country Party governments, the people have no effective local government either. The Government has sought to provide representation for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory in the Senate but these just measures have twice been rejected by the Opposition in the Senate. It is the intention of this Government to ensure that the people of the Australian Capital Territory are not also denied their rightful representation in this House. 
In 1948, the Chifley Labor Government first provided for the people of the Australian Capital Territory to be represented in this House. Since the population of the Territory was then small, the member so chosen was not granted full voting rights at that time. However, the rapid growth of the city of Canberra has led to the Australian Capital Territory electorate having a larger enrolment than any other Federal division. For most of the period since 1948, the people of Canberra were very ably represented by the late Jim Fraser and, as a result of his agitation, the member for the Australian Capital Territory was given full voting rights in this House as from 1967. 
Last year, the present Government sought to provide for the return of 2 members from the Australian Capital Territory. The current enrolment in the Territory is of the order of 100,000 electors and Parliament recognised that the time had come to adjust the number of members accordingly. It is only right that the people of the nation's capital should be represented as adequately as are people in the various States. The Distribution Committee appointed by the Governor-General on 18 December 1973 has released its proposed division of the Territory but must wait for a statutory period of 30 days to elapse for the receipt of suggestions or objections. This period concludes on 18 April 1974 and the Committee can proceed no further until that date. The Government therefore proposes, as an interim measure, to adopt the Committee's original proposals for the division of the Territory. It is worthy of note that no objections to these proposals have been received by the Committee, according to the  Chairman, Mr Ley. 
The Committee has proposed a remarkably simple and logical basis for the division, namely, that the Territory should be split in two by the path of the Molonglo River and by Lake Burley Griffin. This is an agreement with the suggestions put forward by all of the major political parties. What a remarkable achievement to have the Liberal Party, the Australian Country Party and the Australian Labor Party in complete agreement on redistribution! Is this another first in the history of this Parliament? This yields 2 divisions which differ in enrolment by fewer than 1,000 electors. Further, population projections by the National Capital Development Commission show that the 2 electorates will remain almost equal in population until 1980 and beyond. Thus, we will have achieved a most equitable distribution. 
The proposed boundary is the most natural geographical basis for the division and will produce almost no confusion on the part of the people of Canberra as to which division they belong in. Rather than deprive the people of the Territory of any democratic representation whatsoever in the next Parliament, the Government is by this Bill seeking to adopt the Committee's original proposals as the basis for returning 2 members for the Territory, should this be necessary. As I stressed earlier, the present Bill is purely an interim measure without which the people of the Australian Capital Territory would be denied any representation in the next Parliament. I believe that no member of this House could, in all con science, vote against such a fair and reasonable proposal. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent- 
A Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 being presented at this sitting and being passed through all stages without delay. 
An Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1973 and a National Investment Fund Bill 1973 
being presented at this sitting and read a first time together and one motion being moved without delay and one question being put in regard to, respectively, the second readings, the committee's report stage, and the third readings, of the Bills together, and 
being considered in one Committee of the Whole. 
The Leader of the House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of a Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973, an Australian Industry Development' Corporation Bill 1973 and a National Investment Fund Bill 1973. 
These are most important measures, and as such the Government believes they should be tested in the Parliament to see whether on this second occasion they will be endorsed by the people in another place. They have already been passed in this House. There has been extensive debate on them. They are such that we believe that in presenting them again today it will give not only this Parliament but also the Australian people the opportunity to know precisely where members on all sides of the Parliament stand on these important issues. The first measure, the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973, is most important. It is closely connected with our national assets and is one in regard to which there is tremendous public interest. The Government believes that it should be debated today because it is designed amongst other things to protect in every way Australia's assets and to protect the rights of the people. It is a Bill which we believe is fundamental to the safeguarding of the rights of the Australian people. In another place this 
Bill has received scant consideration. In view of the fact that the Senate seeks to stop the supply of money to the Australian Government it is only right that these and other issues should be fully presented to the people in order that they in turn will pass their judgment. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1973 and the National Investment Fund Bill 1973 are also most important measures and as such are deserving of further consideration. They have been endorsed in this House but people in another place, elected as long ago as 1967 in some cases, have seen fit to reject them despite the fact that the Australian Government, in  Her  Majesty's own words, 'has a mandate' for this legislation. Consequently, it is for those reasons today that I am asking that Standing Orders be suspended in order that full opportunity will be given to this House, and also to those in another place, to discuss these important measures again. I know that some will say ultimately that the time allowed is possibly not enough, but that will be debated at a later stage in the consideration of this motion. At this stage I submit the motion to the House and hope that the House will carry it. It is important because of the importance of the legislation involved, and the future events to be decided in the next couple of weeks may well hinge on the attitude of those opposite in connection with this legislation. In those circumstances I can see no reason why this motion should not be supported and opportunity given to the Senate to debate it once again, for this House to pass it once again and ultimately for the Australian people to pass judgment on it. 
I declare that the following Bills are urgent Bills: 
Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1973 
National Investment Fund Bill 1973. 
 I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 - 
For the second reading, until 5.45 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 6 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 6.15 p.m. this day. 
Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1973, and National Investment Fund Bill 1973 - 
For the second readings of the Bills, until 8.45 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage of the Bills, until 9 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages of the Bills, until 9.15 p.m. this day. 
It was said in the debate on the earlier motion for the suspension of Standing Orders that adequate time for discussion was given on these Bills when they were previously before this Parliament. Irrespective of what might be said by those opposite, knowing full well the long discussion that took place in respect of these matters previously, which was not very long ago, there can be no purpose in extending to great length the time permitted for debate on the Bills. The Bills went to another place subsequently and time was available there to debate them if it was thought fit to do so. But I can think of nothing that might be said on these measures from the other side of the Parliament that was not said on a previous occasion. Consequently we think that the time allotted in respect of these matters will prove to be adequate. 
Let me take as an example the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973. This Bill, of course, is an important measure but does the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  really think he has anything new to say on it after the discussion that took place on a previous occasion? Would any member on that side of the Parliament not agree that there is nothing new they can say about it, so recent has been the discussion in this place? Irrespective of what might be said about the time that is being allocated, if honourable members opposite had not this morning wasted the time of this Parliament with a supercilious motion against you,  Mr Speaker,  raked up for political purposes, another hour at least could have been spent on this legislation. If the time is limited - we believe it to be adequate at this stage - we believe that this is due to the time wasting of members opposite. 
We have no desire to delay the progress of this House. We seek to get on with the Appropriation Bills as urgently as possible. But had we not brought down a restriction of time on these measures before the Parliament, undoubtedly there would have been stonewalling and filibustering by those opposite to stop us from debating the Appropriation Bills because as yet they do not have the numbers to defeat them in another place. Everything done by those opposite at this stage is designed to curtail or to put off the debate on the Appropriation Bills. This is because all over this country today Liberal and Country Party organisers - the bigwigs of business and industry - are standing over members of the Country Party and the Liberal side in another place seeking to get their vote to stop supply and to defeat this duly elected Government. We know of all their tricks. This morning the Opposition put on a stunt for an hour to try to delay the evil day when it will have to front up in another place in respect of these matters. Far from the Labor Party delaying a debate on the Appropriation Bills, honourable members opposite will find that we seek the passage of that legislation as urgently as possible. If honourable members expedited their discussion on this and other matters we could get on with that business. But I am a generous hearted soul. I do not see why those who are trying to influence Liberals to vote against their consciences should be speeded up in their activities. Why should they not have adequate time to see what kind of conscience the Liberal Party has? Personally, I have never met a Liberal with a conscience, but they reckon there are a few in the Senate. So let these manipulators of the' Party machine see what they can do. 
The Deputy Leader of the Country Party, who is seeking to interject, gets stirred up like a volcano every time that petrol is mentioned. He and his Party are committed to increase the price of petrol as soon as they are elected to office. What does one think that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and the oil companies are putting money into their funds for? The Country Party has to oppose anything that comes forward on this side of the Parliament regarding a petroleum and minerals authority or anything of that nature because it is committed to protect those companies. All the time, while crying out about the curtailment of the debate, all they want is this legislation to go through rapidly in order that they and their benefactors might get their adequate return as quickly as possible by important legislation like this being defeated. I ask those opposite not to debate this motion further. Let us get on with the business of the Parliament. Let us give the people a chance to re-elect overwhelmingly the Government on this side. 
As much as I like some of those opposite, I think that a few of them will not be looking at me for much longer, sad as that might be. So let us get into the Senate and see what will be done. Let us see that we relieve those conscience stricken senators of their worry and strife and give them the opportunity to vote on other issues. That is why I say that this legislation should be debated with a minimum of delay at this time. We should get on with the business before the Parliament. 
 The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is much more educated than I. I generally have to look up the following week the expressions that he has used to see whether he has insulted me or not. In due course I will investigate his last remark. But one thing for which we can admire the honourable member for Moreton is that he stands out like a beacon among honourable members opposite as one who has the courage of his convictions. Never have I heard described in a more eloquent way than tonight the brutality of numbers and the nakedness of ambition and lust for power by members of the Liberal Party, the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party. I remind the honourable member that I like him so much that I do not mind if he insults me. I say to him that he stands in illustrous Liberal company because  Sir Robert  Menzies - the founder of the Liberal Party, the great white father and the highly respected former Prime Minister of this country who today writes articles in relation to constitutional reform - stands beside him in his attitude on this matter. It was  Sir Robert  Menzies who said: 
It would be a falsification of democracy if, on any matter of Government policy approved by the House of Representatives, possibly by a large majority, the Senate, representing the States and not the people, could reverse the decision. 
This, of course, would create an impossible situation and would make popular Government unworkable. 
Tonight the honourable member stands in his company and, somewhat shabbily, his comrades have deserted him. For the sake of political gain they seek to destroy every vestige of democracy in this country and to throw out the popularly elected Government for sheer political power. 
I do not take any notice of the interjection by the bushranger from the Country Party who sits at the table. That is all they are - a collection of political bushrangers raping the nation in every possible way. This is the situation today: The Opposition has made continuous and deliberate attempts to obstruct the Government by blocking important legislation in the Senate. That is what the  if ,e  is about. The honourable member for Moreton and  Sir Robert  Menzies stand together at this stage. At this very moment the frightened men in the Senate who are seeking the numbers know that they are destroying democracy. Let us look at the reasons they give for this. The first is the Gair appointment. It does not matter when the appointment was made. We are told that it is the appointment itself to which the honourable members opposite - the Liberal Party, the Country Party, the Democratic Labor Party and the multiplicity of parties opposite - object. There has to be a double dissolution to give every parly in the Senate a chance to get on a ticket because there are so many of them. 
Honourable members opposite criticise the practice of jobs for the boys. They say it is dirty and unprincipled that the Government should appoint the man whom they have held up in the country for years as the saviour of all that is good and decent. They say it is dirty and unprincipled politics. What a lot of rot! Since when have honourable members opposite who talk about dirty politics had clean hands? They have a murky and sordid past and present. Let us have a look at the situation. What about those who plotted the downfall of  Mr Gorton  as Prime Minister? The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  one of the prospective new Ministers, said of the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton: 
This man, because of his unreasoned drive to get his own way, his obstinacy, his impetuous and emotional reactions has imposed strains on the Liberal Party, the Government and the Public Service. 
What clean hands that man has! The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  refused to serve in the Gorton Ministry. He said: 
I will not be available to serve in any future Cabinet headed by the present Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton. 
If Labor were defeated I suppose they would be side by side in the Cabinet.  Senator Wood  in another place, that mastermind of political intrigue, moved a motion of no confidence in Prime Minister Gorton. He said: 
The fact is that we picked the wrong man for the job and it is time we faced up to it. 
Now honourable members opposite are seeking to put  Mr Gorton  and others - the people they condemned - back into power. 
Let us look at the long list of Liberal political appointments. There was  Sir Percy  Spender to the United States of America,  Sir Howard  Beale to the United States of America,  Mr Joe  Gullett to Italy,  Mr Dan  McKinnon to the Argentine and Peru,  Mr Gordon  Freeth to Japan and  Mr Hugh  Roberton to Ireland. Fancy sending a protestant to Ireland anyway. I do not know what Ireland has done to deserve  Mr Gair,  but what did it do to deserve a protestant? Let us look at the high commissioners appointed by the Liberals. There was  Sir Kenneth  White,  Sir Eric  Harrison and  Sir Alec  Downer to Britain,  Dr Donald  Cameron and Dame Annabelle Rankin to New Zealand,  Sir Hubert  Opperman to Malta,  Sir Joshua  Francis to New York and  Mr Roger  Dean to San Francisco. If I had another quarter of an hour I would finish the other couple of dozen. So what is unusual about appointing some distinguished personage? Honourable members opposite are supposed to be the people with clean hands. Whilst there are some notable men amongst them, there are also some of the greatest deadbeats who ever came into this Parliament. 
I might add that the position of Ambassador to Washington was once offered to  Mr McMahon  by  Mr Gorton  to get him out of the way, but he said that it was not good enough for him. I thought he would have been going well to get anything at that stage. The honourable member for Farrar was offered the job of High Commissioner in London and he has been crying ever since because he did not take it. History has shown that the Liberals have made a number of political diplomatic appointments to get rid of opponents and enemies within and outside the Parliament. Who stole the late Billy Hughes from the Labor Party to give him the leadership of the party that sits opposite? Who took Joe Lyons from the ranks of the Labor Party to scab on the movement that gave him political birth? Who took him over there to lead? No rotten trick was too contemptible for honourable members opposite to take advantage of, and they talk about having clean hands. 
Now let us look at the people opposite who say that they can be the government of the country. They say that they are a unified body. Do honourable members remember what  Senator McManus  said today. He went out and begged for mercy because he said that honourable members opposite were splinter parties deluxe and asked for unified tickets. Let us have a look at the situation in this House and in the Senate. In the Senate there is a Liberal Party and a Country Party. There is a Country Party here and a Liberal Party here. One does not know what the other is doing. They eat out of each others hands - right up to the elbow - and never talk to each other between sessions. Every time someone on this side of the Parliament wants to make a statement he has to give a copy to the Liberals and a copy to the Country Party because they say: 'Whilst we are united we have 2 separate policies'. If we do not let  Mr Sinclair  speak when  Mr Peacock  speaks somebody will be offended. To keep harmony in the camp I generally give way, because it is not for me to show it. In this Parliament we have seen the Liberal Party and. the Country Party vote one way in this House and another way in the other on such matters as devaluation and rural assistance. The Opposition even has 2 rural policies - one Liberal and one Country Party. On matters such as tariffs and education the Liberal Party went one way and the Country Party went the other. One thing about those who sit in possum paddock is that they know how to get in out of the wet. 
Now we find that the Opposition parties are going to get on a double dissolution ticket. Every time one looks at the television screen one sees  Mr Snedden  and  Mr Anthony.  They remind me of those famous characters from my boyhood many years ago - Mutt and Jeff - saying: 'I am jazzing along with Billy'. He has changed his name to Bill. One has to be respectable in the Libera] Party now. 
Mir Sherry - Not trendy. 
 Not trendy. One has to have decency.  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Snedden  are always lining up and the Leader of the Country Party is pushing the Leader of the Liberal Party along. The Leader of the Opposition stands quietly by, smiling, as he can. Most people take it for a smile but intelligent ones would think it was a snarl. Now let us look at the situation of this unified body opposite. The parties are running against each other in every electorate and in practically every State in the Commonwealth. In Victoria the Liberals are attempting to contest every Country Party seat and the Country Party is taking its revenge by standing for Liberal seats such as that of the honourable member for Wannon. As I said, in the Senate they have so many tickets that there needs to be 10 vacancies in order to fit them all on in every State.  Mr Anthony  called the Victorian Liberals thick heads and idiotic. For once in a while he was right on the ball. 
Then there is  Senator Hannan.  He has broken away. He is the non-trendy. Then there are the trendy Liberals. You take your pick - abortion on demand or not. If you do not want abortion, vote for Hannan; if you want abortion vote for Snedden. In Queensland the Liberals and the Country Party are running separate Senate tickets. The Country Party has joined the DLP to form the National Alliance. In case anyone gets carried away let me add that that is only this week's name. They change every week. In Western Australia there is open warfare between the Liberals and the Country Party. Country Party members are so desperate that they are even throwing beer cans at public meetings. The Country Party and the DLP have formed the National Alliance. As I said once, one of them will pray for you and the other will prey on you. 
In New South Wales  Sir Charles  Cutler, the New South Wales Leader of the Country Party, will not change the name. He will not have any alliance with the DLP and he will not contest metropolitan seats or Liberal held seats. That is quite different from what the new aspiring young cavalier of the Country Party says. So why have the Opposition parties got together? What a motley, weird collection they are. It is the same old gang tossed out about 18 months ago which is now seeking to rule this country from the grave. The decadent old collection of deadheads on the opposite side in another place, . elected years ago, are trying to vote a duly elected government out of office. I will tell honourable members why they are doing these things. They are inspired by the multi-national and foreign dominated business interests. The Country Party is paid by the oil companies to double the price of petrol and oil for the people of this country. They strive to serve those who would buy Australia's assets and their coffers are overflowing with monopoly and foreign finance. If honourable members opposite do not believe me, why did they bring on the threat of a double dissolution when I announced that the Government would be introducing legislation to reveal the source of political funds? Honourable members opposite have dirty hands. I was giving the Australian Country Party a chance to get rid of its sordid past and go straight but it did not take it. Those who sit opposite cannot afford to let the Australian people know the sources of their financial sinews and that is why these 2 open enemies of the Labor Party are joined today in an effort to defeat this Government. 
We find a lot of things to talk about. We have been told that there has been extravagant spending and a terrific amount of wastage by this Government and that we are wasting the taxpayer's money. Let honourable members listen to a letter I received from an office bearer of the Opposition parties. I will not reveal his name because I am not that type of fellow. But the point I make is that this is one of the men who is constantly complaining in this Parliament about extravagance. This is the letter he wrote to me about certain equipment that he wanted for his office: 
There are several matters which have been outstanding for some time in relation to furniture and 
I would be appreciative if you would advise me when action could be expected to take place: 
two cupboards ordered for telephone books, etc., and for tea cups and saucers. 
chairs to be re-covered to match curtains and existing chairs. 
filing cabinets ordered with wood grain top to match existing cabinets. 
I wrote him back a nice letter in which 1 said: 
At first glance your request would appear to be a classic example of meticulous extravagance. I find it difficult to believe the efficiency of your office would suffer if the cupboards were not provided for the telephone books, tea cups and saucers, the chairs not re-covered to match the curtains, etc., or filing cabinets with a wood grain top not provided. 
In other words, the honourable member in question talks about the Government wasting millions of dollars and yet writes to me for tin pot things like that. 
Then we find honourable members opposite weeping and crying for the pensioners of Australia. This is the crowd that gave 50c now and again while Labor in 18 months in office has given more to pensioners than those opposite gave in the last 5 years. We find that at the Melbourne Town Hall they had a great dinner for these friends of the pensioners. We are told that at 8 p.m. there were 614 guests, including notable politicians, a dozen or so Sirs', several millionaires and 2 women. They have gone for women's lib in a big way. Those people paid $50 each to have dinner with  Mr Snedden.  We get him here for nothing and nobody will listen to him then. Do not forget that there was a fanfare. The master of ceremonies called attention for Bill M. Snedden. There was a grave silence for the guest of honour, the leader of the Liberal Party and  Her  Majesty's Opposition and the next Prime Minister of Australia - Bill Snedden. Bill Snedden entered the hall in spotlight and the band played 'God Bless Australia'. I think they could have changed that to 'God Help Australia'. Then these friends of the pensioners sat down and struggled through this menu: Selected delicacies served with Amery Bronze Medal Rhine Riesling; turtle soup;- 
Imported salmon - that would be right in the line of the honourable member for McMillan - halibut Bretonne; roast salmis of pheasant served with Kaiser Stuhl Cabernet Shiraz. That is almost as good as Killen. They had selected international cheeses; strawberries romanoff served with 
Kaiser Stuhl champagne and coffee and port. Cannot honourable members image how they thought of the 50c they would give the pensioners as they struggled along with that menu. 
-It is such an important occasion that I am making a speech quite out of character,  Mr Speaker.  Do not forget that they consumed almost 1,000 bottles of wine. However, there was one disappointment. One of the highlights of the evening was missing - the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards Band. At the last minute the organisers of the dinner received a telegram from the British War Office saying that the band could not play at a political function. What a shame! Imagine how much better God Bless Australia' would have sounded being played by that band. These are the people who are crying for the pensioners of Australia with multi-nationals and others putting them there. 
Tonight I have made these few brief remarks in a courteous and, I hope, helpful way to indicate to the Australian people that those who sit opposite are the same collection of individuals as they have always been - disgruntled, disunited, incapable, wrangling and in every way incapable of governing this country. I ask honourable members opposite in what areas they would cut expenditure. Would it be the Public Service? Would they cut down on social services? Would it be education? Would you sack everybody associated with the Public Service in this country? Would they increase unemployment and all those things. I say to the Australian people that when Labor came to office there were about 120,000 people unemployed. There was stagnation in the community. The economy was failing. Pensioners were down below the bread line in every possible way. Social services left people nothing to live on and in 1,001 ways in relation to the economic management of this country the previous Government had been found wanting. Yet in 18 months this Government has restored over-full employment, the economy is booming and, no matter what the country people might say, farmers and other sections of the community are doing exceptionally well. 
In 18 months, the Labor Government has transformed the face of the Australian nation. It has brought about full employment and security. Pensioners have had a S6 rise as against 50c from the previous Government. There is work and employment. The education vote has been doubled and in every way, right throughout this country, tremendous prosperity has been brought to Australian people. Industry is booming, profits have never been higher and in every way the economy is one of which a nation can be proud. Yet there are people who sit in the other place who were elected years ago and who seek to bring down this Government for reasons which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  mentioned are completely contrary to every democratic process. 1 ask the Australian people to follow the line set down on constitutional issues by  Sir Robert  Menzies and others. When Labor faces the people in the immediate future after those frightened men opposite have brought themselves to vote against this Supply Bill, I ask the Australian people to return the Whitlam Government because it has brought to this country things that the people desire. Internationally and nationally the future is bright and in every way we have cast aside the decadent past of those who sit opposite. We are seeking to give this country new horizons and a new way of life and in every way there is much to be done. On this occasion, I ask the people to vote against a Senate that refused to face the people itself and yet seeks to force this House to the people. I ask them to restore democracy to this country by giving a majority in this House and the Senate to the Australian Labor Government. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented in a debate last night by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I refer to his saying Thou shalt see me at Philippi. This is a very great misrepresentation as I shall point out. In the play 'Julius Caesar' the ghost of Caesar appears to Brutus and tells him: Thou shalt see me at Philippi. When Brutus sees the ghost he says: 
Ha! who comes here? 
I think it is the weakness of mine eyes 
That shapes this monstrous apparition. 
It comes upon me: - Art thou anything? 
Art thou some god, some angel, or some devil, 
That mak'st my, blood cold, and my hair to stare? 
On the plains of Philippi the forces of Brutus and Cassius fought against those of Antony and Octavius. Brutus and Cassius are defeated and both kill themselves. Just before he dies Brutus says: 
And, this last night, here in Philippi fields 
I know my hour is come. 
The ghost of Caesar reappears just before Brutus dies. Apart from the honourable gentleman's resemblance to the ghost it appears that this analogy was the wrong way round. 
If I might continue: I have been compared to a ghost. In the play Antony and Octavius had the numbers but Brutus and Cassius had supplies. It was to the advantage of Brutus and Cassius to avoid a decisive battle with the forces of Antony and Octavius-- 
I will in a couple of words, if the Country Party will give me time. It was to the advantage of Brutus and Cassius to avoid a decisive battle with the forces of Antony and Octavius which were much larger than theirs. Antony did what he could to provoke a battle and finally they went to battle. This is surely the situation as it is today: We have the numbers, you on the other side have the supply. We want battle, to meet you at the polls, but your forces are doing everything in their power in another place to avoid going to battle. I say to the honourable member for Moreton: Aye, we will meet in Philippi, where your hour will be come. 
 by leave - Earlier this evening we requested the Opposition to proceed with some important supply Bills and for reasons best known to itself the Opposition said that it wanted the Bills adjourned to a later hour this day. These Bills are exceedingly important. They must be in another place at 8 p.m. It will not take the full tea hour to deal with them. They could easily have been disposed of I would imagine in 15 minutes had they been accepted. But as the Opposition does not agree there is no alternative for the Government but to go through the usual procedures. If these procedures are taken to the full they will take 50 minutes to implement. Quite frankly, the Government proposes to take this course of action unless the Opposition sees fit to co-operate. 
 I have great respect for the honourable member who has just spoken. It is a pity he does not instil a bit of that courtesy into some of his leaders. 
 I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the orders of the day for the resumption of the debate on the following Bills - 
 I move: 
That the House do now adjourn-- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has been drawn to certain newspaper advertisements and publicity purporting to relate to the activities of an organisation in Perth referred to as the Civic Affairs Bureau. 
The information available does not enable me to furnish the information sought. 
No. 
The review of the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which I have foreshadowed, will include consideration of political parties or organisations. 
I support the nomination of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  for the reasons that have been stated by the honourable members who proposed, seconded and supported his nomination. Undoubtedly, he is one of the outstanding Speakers that this Parliament has produced. I was interested today to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition go back to 1377, to the time of the choice of the first  Speaker.  He said that the honourable member for Angas is eminently fitted for the task of being  Speaker.  He said that the honourable member for Angas has judgment, tolerance, understanding and all those other abilities which are so necessary. He may have them but they are extremely well hidden. The honourable member evidently was not good enough to be promoted to the position of Whip, but the Opposition has decided that he should be the  speaker.  The honourable member for Lilley said in this Parliament on one occasion that he would not accept the lowly position of  Deputy  Whip if he had to serve under a former Prime Minister. This is the lowly position from which the honourable member from Angas has come. Now the Opposition seeks to put him in the exalted position of presiding over this House with all the tolerance, understanding and knowledge that are necessary. It would be almost ludicrous if it were not so serious. 
Who seconded the nomination of the honourable member for Angas? It was the most obstreperous member of the Parliament, the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party. He has broken more rules than anybody knows. He works under Rafferty's rules exclusively and wonders why the  Speaker  calls him to order. I wonder whether a deal has been made. I wonder whether he will be allowed full rein should the honourable member for Angas be put in the position of 

 Speaker. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition blamed the honourable member for Sydney for using the guillotine. Last session I was the one who was blamed. I congratulate the honourable member on his change of front, because it shows that he was not aware of all the facts. When I heard the honourable member for Morton defending the conduct of the honourable member for Mackellar when supporting the appointment of the honourable member for Angas as against the honourable member for Sydney, I thought we had reached the very heights. 
As honourable members know, the fact of the matter is that those honourable members who have been defended today - the honourable member for Sydney who is about to be appointed as  Speaker  of this chamber knows this - undoubtedly were the ones who caused him the most trouble in the last Parliament. Yet today they are the sponsors of the nominee whom they want to take his place. Let me remind the House that when the honourable member for Sydney was appointed as  Speaker  on 27 February 1973 he was appointed unanimously. He received congratulations and good wishes from members from both sides of the House, from the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country Party. The Leader of the Opposition, who will find out shortly that he lost the election - I repeat it; and in another place they reckon that is right, too - said on the occasion of the honourable member for Sydney being elected as  Mr Speaker: 
We know that you have served long in this Parliament; we know that you know the volatility of this House; we know your own periodic bad temper; and we know your ever ready flow of wit. 
What a compliment from the Leader of the Opposition. He went on to say: 
We on this side of the House will co-operate. We will not interject while you are speaking, provided that you do not speak for too long. We will be courteous at all times . . . 
The Leader of the Country Party said on that occasion: 
I congratulate you on your unanimous election to the position of the supreme office bearer of the House of Representatives ... In the period in which you were a private member of the House of Representatives, members of the Country Party who were members of those earlier Parliaments knew you and liked you as a person. 
Why has there been this change of front? The Leader of the Country Party continued: 
They believed that you were a man of honour. We believe that you can fulfil the role that has been cast 
These are the types of things that honourable members opposite said. Let me say to the honourable member for Sydney -  Mr Speakerelect  - that you possess that rare quality, so valuable in your exalted position in this House as  Speaker,  of being able to divorce politics from the duties and responsibilities of that onerous office. You are unbiased and impartial, and I feel that in every way you will continue your illustrious career in that office following, as you say you do, the examples of previous Speakers appointed over the last 27 years by those opposite. 
I feel that no comparison at all can be made between the qualities of the honourable members seeking this position. I commend  Mr Cope  to the House, and I base that commendation, amongst other things, on his experience and the knowledge and the dignity with which he carried out those tasks previously. He received commendations from honourable members opposite until they decided that they would not obey the rules of this place and you had to take appropriate action. The record of the Opposition in the last Parliament was one ofwhich it could not be proud. Several members from that side of the chamber were suspended from time to time because of misconduct. Not one honourable member on this side had occasion to be called to order. Therefore I suggest that the honourable member for Sydney is the one to occupy the office of  Mr Speaker. 
I move: 
That so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent - 
the following Bills being presented and passed through all stages without delay: 
I declare the following Bills to be urgent Bills. 
The suspension of Standing Orders is limited in its operation to the particular purpose for which such suspension has been sought. 
In regard to the declaration of urgency, the only purpose for which suspension was sought was to move one declaration of urgency in respect to certain Bills. Now, coming back to standing order 92(a), its terms are: 
On the reading of a message from the GovernorGeneral recommending an appropriation in connection with any Bill - 
We have not had such-  on the calling on of a motion for leave to introduce a Bill- 
Wc have not had such-  or a notice of presentation - 
We have not had such-  on the consideration of any motion preliminary to the introduction of a Bill - 
There is no such motion before the House-  at any stage of a Bill - 
There is no Bill before the House-  or on the consideration of Senate amendments or requests for. amendments to a Bill - 
None of those conditions precedent- 
I declare that the following Bills are urgent Bills: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Before proceeding to deal with the provisions and purpose of this Bill, let me remind honourable members of the following comment which I made in this House on 13 March 1973, in my second reading speech on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973: 
Free elections are basic to a democratic society. But free elections by themselves are not enough - the results must reflect the will of the majority both in individual constituencies and throughout the nation. If the electoral laws do not result in the Government desired by the majority - if they are manipulated to reflect the political interest of persons or parties - it would be a denial of the very essence of democracy and a travesty of the electoral process. The Government, mindful of its mandate and responsibility, is determined to ensure that the Australian electoral laws embrace those fundamental principles of human rights and democracy in this nation. 
The outcome of the recent Federal elections has given added weight to the significance of those sentiments. The Australian Labor Government is more determined than ever to ensure that the permissible variation in numbers of electors between electorates which is presently allowed should not be permitted to remain in force. At the present time, the electoral enrolments in some divisions stand at almost double those in other divisions in the same State. In New South Wales, for example, the electorate of Mitchell, with 82,864 voters, has 73 per cent more electors than the electorate of Darling with 47,806 voters; Diamond Valley in Victoria has 77 per cent more elections than Wimmera. In Queensland, the situation is worse, with the electorate of Mcpherson, with 90,525 voters, having 91 per cent more electors than Maranoa, with 47,493. 
That is a matter for question. Honourable members are well aware of the situation. Many electors in the outer suburbs of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, in particular, are clearly not enjoying anything like equality of political rights with electors in many other divisions. The present electoral redistribution criteria and, in particular the degree of variation allowed between electorates at the time of a redistribution is not consistent with the principle of equality of representation. The restoration of practical equality of representation between electorates must be clearly established by law as a fundamental objective of redistribution. 
This Bill which seeks to amend certain provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act relating to the redistribution of States into electoral divisions, is in identical form to the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) which was passed by this House on 4 April 1973 and again on 23 August 1973. As honourable members would know, the motion for the second reading of the Bill was defeated in the Senate on 17 May 1973 and on the second occasion, on 29 August 1973. The essential purpose of the Bill is to ensure that a greater degree of equity is introduced into and retained in the Australian electoral system. To put it another way, we seek to bring down legislation which will provide for practical equality of representation thus ensuring that the will of the majority will be reflected in the outcome of elections of members of this House. 
The key section of the existing Act requiring revision in this particular context is section 19. The Bill also contains an amendment of section 25 but in other respects, Part III of the Act which specifies the procedure for redistributions of States into electoral divisions, remains unchanged. The amendments proposed will have the effect of: 
reducing the permissible variation from the quota specified in section 19(1) from one-fifth to one-tenth; 
revising the factors contained in section 19 (2) to which the distribution commissioners are required to give due consideration by deleting the reference to: 
disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance; 
the density or sparsity of population of the division; and 
the area of the division; and 
varying section 25 (2) (b) to provide that a redistribution may be directed whenever in one-fourth of the divisions of a State the number of electors differs from the quota by one-tenth, in lieu of one-fifth. 
The proposed amendment of section 25 (2) (b) is consistent with the proposed amendment of section 19 (1) reducing the margin of allowance from the quota to 10 per cent. 
The changes proposed by this Bill are designed to provide, by legislative measures that, as far as may be practicable, the value of the vote of one citizen shall be equivalent to the vote of another and to give some meaningful application to the principle of 'one vote one value' without unnecessarily restricting the distribution commissioners in proposing a redistribution. The existing 20 per cent permissible variation from the quota which allows a division to have SO per cent more electors than another division in the same State and which was introduced in 1902 when Australia had a population of about four million as against thirteen million today, can no longer be tolerated in our society. 
The 10 per cent margin upwards or downwards from the quota, which this Bill provides, reduces the existing disparity between electoral divisions and is at the same time sufficient to enable the distribution commissioners to give due consideration to factors which are relevant in determining division boundaries. I might also remind honourable members that a one-tenth variation from the quota was recommended by the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959. 
The Bill also seeks to revise the factors to which the distribution commissioners aire required to give due consideration. In 1965 the then Government amended the redistribution provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act by introducing a number of new factors including 'the area of the Division', 'the density or sparsity of population' and 'disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance'. We opposed these amendments in 1965 and we now propose to remove from the Act any reference to these factors. They were designed to encourage departure from the quota of electors in a manner which dilutes the vote in metropolitan areas and weights it in favour of rural areas. 
The Bill is not, as it has been claimed, specifically aimed against country divisions, particularly those represented by the Australian Country Party. The Australian Labor Party more so than any other party is mindful of the difficulties of representation of electorates, both city and country, because we are a truly national party - the largest single party in the Parliament and the nation. The Labor Party represents 19 country seats and also holds the largest electorate in Australia, Kalgoorlie, with an area of 897,815 square miles. This is a reasonable answer to those who say that the Labor Party does not appreciate the needs of country electorates. When equality comes to the country districts we will probably represent 29 country electorates. We seek only to introduce and perpetuate, as far as possible, the principle of 'one vote one value' and to ensure that the result of an election will reflect the opinion of the majority. This is fundamental to the concept of democracy. 
In the course of my second reading speech in this House on 13 March 1974 I documented the Government's case with a substantial series of statistics. I do not intend to repeat them today. However, I will refer to the results of the House of Representatives election held on 18 May 1974, because they so adequately illustrate the inequity and injustice of the present system. In New South Wales, taking the State as a whole, the Country Party won 10.6 per cent of the first preference votes while the Liberal Party won 33.3 per cent of the first preferences, yet the Country Party was able to gain 20 per cent of the seats in New South Wales as against 24.4 per cent of the seats for the Liberal Party. We are even protecting the Liberal Party from gerrymanders. Again, in Victoria the Country Party won 7.4 per cent of the first preference votes in that State, yet managed to obtain about 18 per cent of the seats in Victoria. Why would the Country Party want to change the system? 
I cannot stress too strongly the fact that the Bill now before the House is one of the most significant Bills on which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  appealed to the GovernorGeneral for the granting of a double dissolution of the Australian Parliament. The electorate was well aware that the matters dealt with in the Bill formed a crucial part of the Government's electoral platform, a platform which was endorsed when the Government was returned to office on 18 May. Being a Bill which formed a basis for the double dissolution, we intend, if such becomes necessary, to take whatever steps are available to us to see that the provisions contained in the Bill become law. 
There are only 4 clauses to the Bill and the amendments proposed are not extensive. As the Bill is identical to that previously presented, there are no good reasons why the  legislation should be obstructed by lengthy debate or delaying tactics. Electoral reform is fundamental to the platform of the Australian Labor Party which was endorsed by the Australian .people on 18 May 1974. I have previously stated in this House that the Commonwealth Electoral Act is outdated and outmoded and it is the intention of this Government to update it in line with present day needs and requirements. The Government regards this Bill as a major piece of our legislative program. It is a forward step towards electoral reform in line with the Australian Labor Party policy and views of the Australian people. I commend the Bill to the House and seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the latest enrolment figures for all electorates in Australia. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is my privilege to introduce into the Parliament of Australia, for the third time, a Bill to provide for Senate representation for the Australian Capital Territory. The Bill now before the House is in identical form to the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill passed by this House on 30 May 1973 and again on 27 September 1973. As honourable members know, the motion for the second reading of the Bill was defeated in the Senate on 7 June 1973, and, on the second occasion, on 14 November 1973. 
Honourable members have had ample opportunity to consider the provisions of this Bill. However, I feel that it would be appropriate for me at this stage to deal briefly with the proposals contained in the Bill, and the purpose of the Bill. The Bill provides for the election of 2 senators each for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and that such senators have the same powers, immunities and privileges as senators representing the States; that the first election of Territory senators be held at the same time as the next Senate elections in the several States or at the same time as the next general elections for members of the House of Representatives, if such is held before or in conjunction with the next Senate elections; that the term of the first Territory senators be from the date of their election until the eve of polling day for the ensuing general election for members of the House of Representatives; that after the first election for Territory senators elections be held at the same time as the general elections for members of the House of Representatives; that after the first election of Territory senators, the terms of Territory senators be the period between each House of Representatives election; and for the Territory senators to be elected under the same system of proportional representation as that currently applicable to the election of senators representing the States, except in the case of a single casual vacancy when such vacancy shall be filled by the holding of a by-election adopting the procedures used for filling a single casual vacancy for a State senator, as far as may be applicable. 
The purpose of this Bill - and this is its only purpose - is to provide a measure of representation for the Australian Capital Territory and for the Northern Territory in the Senate and thus give some meaningful expression to section 122 of the Constitution in respect of the Senate as an integral part of this Parliament. Such representation is clearly permissible. Section 122 of the Constitution provides: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the Commonwealth, or of any territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
We believe that while the national Parliament remains bicameral, the people of the Territories, like all the people of Australia should be represented in both chambers. We tried to bring this about in Opposition and we are determined to achieve it in Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when Leader of the Opposition, introduced private members Bills in 1968 and 1970 to provide for representation of the Territories in the Senate. Both Bills were taken to the second reading stage but no vote on either Bill was allowed. The Labor Government recently gave the Australian Capital Territory a second member for the House of Representatives, and he is really an outstanding member of this Parliament. 
In our system of Government, where all measures must pass through both Houses of Parliament before becoming law, it is quite extraordinary that the people of the Territories should be allowed representation in one chamber but denied representation in the other. We believe that the people of the Territories should have a voice in the Senate when it debates motions concerning the Territories, and that senators from the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory should sit on parliamentary committees which deal with matters affecting the Territories. It is not only the Australian Labor Party which supports Senate representation of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. Since 1967 the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council has been pressing for Senate representation of the Australian Capital Territory. At its meeting on 11 December 1967 the following resolution was carried: 
This Council advises the Minister that the Australian Capital Territory should be allowed representation in Senate and seeks the Minister's assurance that he will do everything possible to persuade the Government to introduce the necessary legislation in Parliament in order that citizens of this Territory are no longer denied adequate and proper Parliamentary representation. 
Even the Australian Capital Territory Federal Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party - not a very good reference, I will admit - is reported in the 'Canberra Times' of 17 May 1973 under the heading, 'Libs Want Two ACT Senators', as supporting this proposal. The Legislative Council of the Northern Territory has sought Senate representation for the Northern Territory on several occasions over many years and I hope that the Australian Country Party member representing the Northern Territory notes that. In 1969, the Legislative Council asked by resolution for the representation of the Northern Territory in the Senate by 2 senators. The Northern Territory, comprising an area of 520,280 square miles, is a vital part of Australia which should be represented in the Senate in addition to the representation of its people in the House of Representatives. 
The honourbale member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is recorded as saying during the course of his speech in this House on 29 May 1973, Hansard page 2804, as follows: 
In speaking to this Bill I point out that in 1966 Senate Representation for the Northern Territory was on my platform and it has been ever since .... 
I understand that numbers of the Australian Country Party voted for it in this House and senators of a similar party voted against it in another - a Laurel and Hardy show on a great issue. 
The Constitutional position with regard to the power vested in this Parliament to provide representation for the 2 Territories as proposed by this Bill is clear. I have already quoted section 122 of the Constitution and I ask: What could be clearer,  Mr Speaker?  The Parliament may allow the representation of such Territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. The founders of the Constitution obviously recognised the simple justice of the notion that since the Parliament would make laws for the Territories, the citizens of the Territories should have a voice in that Parliament. Anything else would be a denial of the most fundamental right which a democratic nation allows its citizens. 
The position of the Territories is becoming more urgent each year. Each in its own way is a vital and expanding part of Australia. The population of each Territory is increasing rapidly. On the latest available information it has been assessed that the population of Canberra could reach the half million level between 1992 and 1996 and that a population of 600,000 at the year 2000 is feasible. In respect of the Northern Territory I am advised that the projected population for 1980 is assessed at 165,00, rising to 275,000 by 1990. Two senators are suggested because it would be proper to have an even number representing the Territories. If only one senator represented a Territory, almost certainly the one party would be represented for long periods. It is not unlikely that the senator for each Territory would belong to the same Party. It would appear then to be more just to have an even number elected each time for each Territory, thus allowing the representation of the parties to be more evenly balanced than would be the case if only one senator for each Territory were provided. 
With regard to the term of office proposed by the Bill for Territory senators, I would remind honourable members that 16 years ago the Constitutional Review Committee, upon which all parties were represented, recommended that there should be an election for half the senators every time there is a general election for the House of Representatives. Bringing elections for Territory senators into line with House of Representatives elections accords with the recommendation of that Committee. Under the provisions of the Bill, after the first election of Territory senators, both senators for each Territory will be elected each time there is a general election of the House of Representatives. Consequently in respect of representatives of the Territories there will be elections for both Houses of Parliament at the same time. 
The Bill before the House proposes an increase in the number of senators by 4 making a total of 64 senators in all. On the basis of advice by the Commonwealth legal advisers, the provision of Territory senators under sec tion 122 of the Constitution, does not cause an alteration in the number of members of the House of Representatives by virtue of section 24. Consequently, the proposed Territory senators will be excluded in determining the number of members to be chosen in the several States in pursuance of section 10 of the Representation Act. This will be made clear by proposed amendments of the Representation Act contained in the Representation Bill which I shall introduce later this day. This Bill when it becomes law will give effect to the Government's announced policy, and indeed its undertaking to provide representation in the Senate for the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory - representation to which they are justly entitled. It is presented for a third time to meet the constitutional requirements for it to become law following the recent double dissolution of Parliament. It has been unquestionably endorsed by the Australian people and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a companion Bill to the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill. As I foreshadowed in my second reading speech on the latter Bill, its main purpose is to amend the formula in the Representation Act under which the num'ber of members of the House of Representatives for the several States is determined. This Bill is in identical form to the Representation Bill 1973 twice rejected by the Senate, firstly on 7 June 1973 and! secondly on 14 November 1973. It is another of the 6 Bills which provided the grounds for the recent double dissolution of the Parliament. 
As honourable members would know, the Constitution provides, in section 24, that the House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth, and the number of members shall be as nearly as practicable twice the number of senators. Section 24 further provides that the number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the respective numbers of their people, and the section goes on to specify the manner in which that number is to be determined 'until the Parliament otherwise provides'. Parliament has otherwise provided by the Representation Act. The Government's legal advice is that section 24 of the Constitution does not have application in relation to senators who may be provided for a Territory under the provisions of section 122 of the Constitution. In other words, the requirement contained in section 24 for the number of members of the House of Representatives to be as nearly as practicable twice the number of senators does not relate to Territory members or senators provided under section 122 of the Constitution. Furthermore, 'the people of the Commonwealth' in the context of section 24 are the people of the States. 
The formula in section 10 of the Representation Act for determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States, sets out that a quota shall be ascertained by dividing the number of people of the Commonwealth by twice the number of senators. The number of members to be chosen in each State is determined by dividing the number of people of the State by the quota; and if on such division there is a remainder, one more member shall be chosen in the State. 
Clause 3 of the Bill before the House makes it clear that in applying the formula provided in section 10 'the people of the Commonwealth' are the people of the 6 States and do not include the people of any Territory. 
Clause 5 of the Bill which substitutes the words 'the Senators for the States' for the word 'Senators', makes it clear that Territory senators are excluded from the formula for determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States. Thus, consistently with section 24 of the Constitution, the introduction of Territory senators will not affect the representation of the States in the House of Representatives. 
Opportunity is being taken in clauses 4 and 6 of the Bill to make some amendments of a formal nature to sections 7 and 13 of the Representation Act. The present provisions of these sections do not take into account the fact that one House of the Parliament may be sitting although the other is not. At the same time it is desirable to bring the period within which regulations are to be tabled under sub section (2) of section 13 into line with the. period of 15 sitting days provided by the Acts Interpretation Act in relation to regulations generally. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973, the Senate (Representations of Territories) Bill 1973, the Representation Bill 1973, the  Healtlh  Insurance Commission Bill 1973, the Health Insurance Bill 1973 and the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 be as follows: 
Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973- 
For the second reading, until 9.10 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 9.20 p.m. this day. 
'For the remaining stages, until 9.30 p.m. this day. 
Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill 1973- 
For the second reading, until 9.50 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 10 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 10.10 p.m. this day. 
Representation Bill 1973- 
For the second reading, until 10.20 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 10.30 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 10.40 p.m. this day. 
Health Insurance Commission Bill 1973 - 
For the second reading, until 4 p.m. on Thursday, 1 1 July. 
For the committee stage, until 4.10 p.m. on Thursday, 11 July. 
For the remaining stages, until 4.20 p.m. on Thursday, 11 July. 
Health Insurance Bill 1973- 
For the 'second reading, until 4.30 p.m. on Thursday, 11 July. 
For the committee stage,  untill  4.40 p.m. on Thursday, 1 1 July. 
For the remaining stages,  untill  4.50 p.m. on Thursday, 11 July. 
Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973- 
For the second reading, until 5.20 p.m. on Thursday, 11 July. 
For the committee stage, until 5.30 p.m. on 
Thursday, 11 July 
For the remaining stages, until 5.40 p.m. on 
Thursday, 11 July. 
I have no desire to hold up discussion on these important measures and I intend to speak only very briefly in support of my motion. The time allotted for debate on these Bills would have been much longer had it not been for the fact that the Opposition decided to use SO minutes of important debating time by introducing a matter of public importance and the fact that later this afternoon the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  in his usual manner, wasted 25 minutes of the Parliament's time. Accordingly 75 minutes which might have been devoted to this important legislation, on which a general election was called, was wasted. I realise that the time spent debating the matter of public importance might well be regarded as justifiable, but when honourable members opposite find that they are short of 25 minutes debating time tonight they can put the blame right at the door of the honourable member for Mackellar. This afternoon he spoke nonsense that was not worth replying to. He wasted valuable time. 
There have already been 39 hours of debate on these measures. They are most urgent measures. They caused a double dissolution. I would suggest to members of the Opposition that the appropriate thing for them to do at this stage would be not to divide on this motion but to use the important time saved by not dividing to engage in some sensible debate. I make that suggestion in the interests of adequate debating time for members of the Opposition. It is regrettable to me that we have to curtail debate so much due entirely to the tactics of the Opposition today and not allow the House the time that might otherwise have been available for debate on this issue. 
No man has reformed more rapidly since going into opposition than has the honourable member for Mackellar. It is interesting to see that he has now become a democratic temporarily. The longer he is in Opposition the more steadfast a democratic he will be. But when he sat on the Government side of the House he was the most ruthless supporter of the suppression of free speech by those who sat on the Opposition side. It is regrettable today that the time is limited. The limitation is due entirely to the tactics and frustration of the Opposition. Therefore I formally move my motion, take a minimum of time myself and suggest to those opposite that they might do likewise. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure about this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Representation Bill 1973 as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I suggest therefore, that you permit the. subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
1 wish to speak for only a few moments to put the record straight. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  during the second reading debate, had much to say about how this legislation was a great put-over. He said that it was something that was against democracy and for flooding the Senate. I remind him that on 29 May 1973 this Bill was carried by 78 votes to 35. Every member of the Country Party voted for it in this chamber. Therefore tonight the honourable member for Moreton has condemned his colleagues on his own. side of the fence. However on the day following 29 May the Country Party in another place voted against the Bill. 
Earlier tonight the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said: 'We will not divide tonight because we want to save time'. I will tell the Parliament why the Country Party is not dividing. It wants to tell the people of the Northern Territory that it is voting for this legislation when its members are not game to line up and be counted on it. They are already recorded as having voted for it. Tonight they are hiding by saying silently 'No' in this Parliament and then going outside the Parliament and saying that they voted for it - all to protect the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  who everybody knows is living on borrowed time. In a few moments from now the honourable member for the Northern Territory will stand in his place and glibly tell the people: 'I support this legislation'. I ask him tonight to divide the Committee and vote with the Labor Party for this Bill. I bet that he is ashamed to do so, because honourable members in the Country Party are as phoney as they look. In another part of this Parliament the Country Party will vote against this legislation. Tonight I invite members of the Country Party to cross the floor as they did on 29 May and support the Bill. They know as well as I do that they do not support it, yet they try to convince the people that they . do. 
The honourable member for Moreton condemned them tonight by implying what he did about this Bill. It is always said that a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. As I looked at the honourable member tonight I thought that a little legal knowledge is a dangerous thing. T thought of that old saying that you can tell a lawyer, but you cannot tell him much. That is precisely the case with the honourable member. He has been revitalised since he got his dinner suit a couple of days ago, walked into the Parliament and sat down on the other side of this chamber. 
He got it from Moss Brothers because he believed that Billy Snedden had won the election. This eminent young lawyer has made so many speeches tonight that I really think that he can talk under wet cement. The knowledge with which he spoke was the legal knowledge of a small debts lawyer, but the Government takes advice from the Commonwealth crown solicitors - eminent men who know and understand the Constitution and all associated with it. With due respect to the great practice that the honourable member has built up in the small debts court in Brisbane, we will stick to the Commonwealth crown solicitors. Our advice is that this legislation has no effect on the question of increasing the size of this Parliament. The next Bill that will come on for debate will indicate that. Members of the Country Party know that that is true because they sat on the Government side of the Parliament on 29 May - the Leader of the Australian Country 
Party, the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  and even the honourable member for the Northern Territory - and endorsed this proposal as one that was necessary. Tonight they do not have the guts to do it again. 
You have not. The Country Party is not dividing the House on these Bills. It says that it will fight them right through and take them to the High Court of Australia. Yet its members are not game to line up here tonight and vote for them because they say they want to save time. The fact of the matter is that every Country Party member is ashamed to say why he will not give the Northern Territory increased representation. Look at the present member for the Northern Territory. Surely to heavens the people of the Northern Territory need assistance. If the honourable member for the Northern Territory is the only one they have to protect half a million square miles, God help the people of the Northern Territory. I do this tonight more for his assistance than for the assistance of anybody else. I am frightened by the representation the people of the Northern Territory are getting. They are entitled not only to better representation but also to more representation. In Canberra the people have said what they think in respect of this matter. But where can you go? You have a Liberal candidate for the Senate lined up with the Communist Party in Canberra. The Country Party here today says one thing, but in another place it is likely to vote the other way round. 
I mention this tonight to put the record straight. I hold in my hand1 for all to see the record of how members of the Country Party voted on 29 May. On that occasion, for once, they recorded an intelligent vote, and I think they have been ashamed of it ever since because they have never divided the House on this issue since. Tonight the honourable member for Moreton condemned them when he made accusations about this legislation. I mention tonight that the desire of the Government is to see that the people from the far flung districts are represented. The Opposition talks about loaded electorates. Why should the people in country districts not have more representatives in the Parliament? That is what the Country Party says it wants, yet it is opposed to the present proposals. Therefore tonight I show up the hypocrisy of the Country Party and all its ballyhoo and talk about what it is going to do and what it is not going to do. It will prove where it stands if it does what it did on 29 May. I invite the Country Party to divide the Parliament on this issue and let the people know where it stands on representation for country districts. I will say that it is not prepared to divide the Parliament, not because it wants to save time but because it wants to tell the people that it voted for this measure without having the courage to front up and put its vote where it believes it should be, and that is in the interests of the people of these districts. I now give way to the honourable member for the Northern Territory to make his annual apology for his neglect to vote for this legislation. 
I thank the honourable member for what is a very intelligent and interesting question. As a matter of fact I did study the Canadian legislation on disclosure of funds and I was very impressed by it. It is true that the Government has approved of somewhat similar legislation being introduced into this Parliament. I am hopeful that it will be introduced in the almost immediate future when drafting is completed. It will provide for the disclosure of all donations, particularly the source of funds received by all political parties and all candidates. It is made all the more important because of the huge funds from unknown sources, from both foreign and local interests, that went into an attempt to defeat this Government at the last elections, and fortunately it did not succeed. To give the House an indication of the kind of revelations that will be made under this legislation I shall quote from a letter on the stationery of the Leader of the Australian Country Party, Parliament House, Canberra and dated 19 April 1974. It is addressed to the managing director of a mining company and it says: 
Dear  Sir: 
The Liberal-Country Party Opposition is preparing for one of the greatest electoral battles in its history.  (Honourable members interjecting) - ; - 
 The Government opposes the motion. This suspension of Standing Orders is another misuse of the procedures of this Parliament, which is becoming a product of the Opposition. Only yesterday one Opposition member took a similar course on a very frivolous matter. Tonight the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has sought to move the suspension of Standing Orders to discuss a matter which it takes about 5 minutes to read. On this side of the Parliament when a Minister seeks leave to make a statement on a matter of this nature he is required, under the procedures and traditions of this House, to give 2 hours notice. The Opposition will not debate a matter unless that is done. But so weak is the argument of the Leader of the Opposition that he seeks, by means of an element of surprise so that no answer can be given, to spring things on the Government. 
The resolution is a phoney one. At the last election that collection opposite who sit there and think that they won the election, won 61 seats, and it takes 64 to carry a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. The last time such a motion was moved and we had a vote in this House the Opposition raked up 53 members because the rest of them had gone home to bed. That is the phoney approach of the Leader of the Opposition. He could have discussed this matter yesterday in a motion before the House moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  in regard to the economy. He did not even bother to speak on it. He knows well that this is just a political proposition. Yesterday, on the opening day of Parliament, the Opposition put 25 notices on the notice paper for business to be discussed later. Do honourable members know what priority the Opposition gave to the economy? They gave it number twenty. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  gave notice that on general business Thursday No. 20 he would move as follows: 
That this House believes the Government has failed the nation in the management of the national economy by failing to control inflation causing loss of public confidence by failing to exhibit concern for the future and causing hardship to many by raising the spectre of widespread unemployment and by denying Australians an equitable share in national economic growth by failing to reform the taxation system. 
Do honourable members know when that will be discussed? It will be discussed at about the election after next because there will not be enough general business days to get to it sooner. That is the priority the Opposition gives to the economy at this time. 
Everybody knows that the Leader of the Opposition fought the election on the issue of inflation, so he said. But he is still reading his own speeches and thinks he won. That was the issue on which the Opposition fought the election. We are the Government. In the Senate the Opposition has swapped 5 Democratic Labor Party members for one Steel Hall and it still does not think it has lost the election. 
Honourable members opposite talk about lack of communication. I remember during the election campaign that the Leader of the Opposition and the Country Party leader got  a  bit out of focus in regard to communication. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who was the last  speaker  in this debate, was party to doubling the price of crude oil, which would have increased inflation tremendously and placed an impost on every person throughout the length and breadth of the community. Ever since the Leader of the Australian Country Party said that, he has been running around the country crying for mercy for making, as he said, the silliest statement he has ever made, but the action would have increased inflation tremendously. Honourable members opposite have also spoken about the dangers in the economy and the inflation that goes with it. Most of this started under their disreputable government of this country. 
I thank you,  Mr Acting Speaker.  The wisdom of your choice is apparent to anybody from that decision. The only thing missing from the resolution moved by the Leader of the Opposition is the umbrella. Everything under the sun is mentioned in it. It even speaks of the Government's failure to give honourable members time to discuss these matters by the use of the guillotine. The present Leader of the Opposition once put through 19 Bills in 17 hours. Bradman at his best could not have matched that speed at cricket. They even doubled him when they were in office. The most ruthless use of numbers and guillotines in the Parliament occurred when that Leader of the Opposition was Leader of the House for the Government at that time. Honourable members opposite say that they have not had time to discuss these matters. They have had 40 hours in which to discuss the Bills that the Government has put under the guillotine. All they sought to do, because of the money that flowed into the Country Party coffers, was to stop those who now control the minerals resources of this country, and others, from being obliged to allow for more Australian equity in these resources. This is a real cover up in every sense of the word. The Opposition has had ample opportunity to debate these issues. 
I will mention another matter. Next week the Address-in-Reply debate will be continued. Why could this brilliant glamour boy who is supposed to lead the Liberal Party not have prepared a decent speech instead of hiding under the pretence of moving the suspension of Standing Orders and spoken in the AddressinReply debate? He knows full well that the scope is there for him to do that. He could have spoken yesterday on a motion, but he did not. He could have asked the Opposition Whip to have brought forward his motion on the economy instead of having it wail for 3 years, as it appears from today's notice paper will happen. The reformation of honourable members opposite since they changed to that side of the chamber is remarkable. In a way I admire them for this respect they now show for the rights and freedom of the people, for inflation and for those who suffer under it. Fancy honourable members opposite thinking that the Government has done nothing about inflation, when they gave pensioners an increase of 50 cents a week to meet the increased cost of living. The man who has moved this motion - the Treasurer at that time - gave pensioners an increase of 50 cents. He is a man who is greatly concerned about inflation! 
Look how disturbed he gets. The man is under great stress. He should not become disturbed. He hands it out, but he does not like taking a bit of it. 
Let me summarise the reasons why the Government will not accept this motion. Firstly, there will be ample opportunity to discuss the subject in the Address-in-Reply debate. Secondly, there was ample opportunity for the Leader of the Opposition to speak on this matter yesterday. Thirdly, had honourable members opposite co-operated in respect of the Bills for which endorsement is now being sought in another place they might well have had an opportunity to debate them at great length today. In addition to that, the Government will never accept the fact that the Opposition won the election. If it will not dawn on the Leader of the Opposition that that is the case he can be shown only when he puts up motions like this and they are defeated by the vote of the majority elected by the Australian people. Whatever he says about inflation, whatever he says is wrong with the economy, whatever he says is wrong with respect to Ministers and about other things, let me tell him that the Australian Labor Party was endorsed at the recent election against his leadership. 
When he talks about disunity he talks as an expert. Honourable members over there are eating out of each other's hands - right up to the elbow. Look at the gorillas that sit in that corner waiting to gobble up those over there. They sit side by side now, but what they say about each other I will bet would make a thriller and a best seller. In Western Australia 2 Liberal members replaced 2 Country Party men. The only sad thing about it is that the country went further back. 
I condemn this resolution as a phoney one. I say to those who sit opposite: If you persist in the misuse of the Standing Orders as you are doing the Government will be forced to adopt the tactics that you adopted on one occasion, which stopped anybody except Ministers moving the suspension of Standing Orders. The Government does not want to stoop to that, but take the word of one who knows and who has the numbers - if you persist in these frivolous kinds of things you will be in real trouble and you will not be moving the suspension of Standing Orders. I would expect the Leader of the Opposition to set an example and a 'high standard of parliamentary representation and not to misuse the Standing Orders of this Parliament in order to bring forward phoney resolutions and issues on which he was defeated at the last election. As I look at the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  I realise that he was right about leadership. He was easily the best of the lot of them. Sitting behind him is another man. Quite frankly, one would not have to be much good to be better. 
Question put. 
That the motion  (Mr Sneddon's)  be agreed to. 
I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday and Wednesday at fifteen minutes past two o'clock p.m. and on each Thursday at ten o'clock a.m. 
The purpose of this motion is to change the times of sitting provided for in the Standing Orders, which at present are 2.30 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday and 10.30 a.m. on Thursday. Parliamentarians have many calls on their time, such as committee work, both parliamentary and party, electoral duties, in addition to their being required in the chamber. This motion seeks to set some balance between those calls on the time of honourable members. If carried this motion will have effect until the end of the session or until it is changed by a further motion. The times of sitting may need revision during the Budget session, but for the present, the suggested hours are thought to be the most convenient for honourable members. I hope that the Opposition will agree. I think honourable members opposite will agree that the Standing Orders which were designed for a Parliament of about 75 members present problems in allowing adequate discussion in a Parliament of this size during the limited sitting times. However, I submit this as a proposal to the House for the sittings of the next 3 or 4 weeks, and I hope that it will be agreed to. 
I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, at half-past ten o'clock p.m. on each sitting day the  Speaker  shall propose the question - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate; if the House be in committee at the time stated, the  Chairman  shall report progress and upon such report being made the  Speaker  shall forthwith propose the question - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate. 
Provided that: '(a) if a division be in progress at the time fixed for interruption such division shall be completed and the result announced, 
if, on the question - That the House do now adjourn - being proposed, a Minister requires the question to be put forthwith without debate, the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the question. 
nothing in this order shall operate to prevent a motion for the adjournment of the House being moved by a Minister at an earlier hour, &lt;d) any business under discussion and not disposed of at the time of the adjournment shall be set down on the Notice Paper for the next sitting, and 
if the question - That the House do now adjourn - is negatived, the House or committee shall resume the proceedings at the point at which they had been interrupted. Provided further that, if at eleven o'clock p.m., the question before the House is - 
That the House do now adjourn - the  Speaker  shall forthwith adjourn the House until the time of its next meeting. 
I appreciate what has been said by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  I do not know how this problem of allowing adequate time for debate will be solved, but I would like to see the Standing Orders of this House amended in such a way as to provide, by agreement or some other means, for the termination of debates and the setting of times for certain debates. No doubt in due course a committee of the House might well look at this matter. It does present problems. Private members need time to put forward their views, and the adjournment debate provides a very adequate opportunity for them to do that. I am sympathetic to this problem, and in proposing for consideration this motion in relation to the adjournment I have tried to ensure that the rights of private members to put a viewpoint on a regular adjournment debate are protected. Quite frankly, the time set aside for this purpose will never be enough because many more honourable members seek to speak than time permits. However, I think something might be done about reducing the time for which an honourable member is permitted to speak during the adjournment debate, which would help. 
Since I have assumed responsibility for the leadership of this House there have been more regular adjournment debates at regular hours, instead of in the early hours of the morning in the way we experienced previously. I do not offer great criticism of the previous Government, but I think that if an honourable member is raising a matter during the adjournment debate it is nice for him to know that the debate will finish at a reasonable hour and that he will have a reasonable chance of presenting his case and getting some coverage in his local Press in another part of Australia. In the 1973 autumn sittings there were 34 sitting days and we had 29 adjournment debates. In the 1973 Budget sittings there were 47 sitting days and we had 46 adjournment debates. In the 1974 autumn sittings there were 16 sitting days and we had 14 adjournment debates. That is a reasonably good record, in my view. Apart from this opportunity to raise matters, private members were given the opportunity to debate on certain Thursdays the Bills and the matters of concern to them. Without offering any criticism of previous governments, let me say that I have endeavoured to see that some protection is given to honourable members in the presentation of their cases to this Parliament. For my part, I would prefer to sit for extra days rather than sitting long into the night. I think it is generally agreed that 10.30 p.m. is a reasonable hour at which to put the question for the adjournment, leaving half an hour for the adjournment debate each night. 
It is not long enough, certainly, but it gives every honourable member an opportunity to get home at a reasonable time. If we sit into the early hours of the morning, quite frankly it is just not possible for honourable members on the front bench opposite and Ministers on this side of the chamber to carry out their duties when they are tired and have lost their concentration from lack of sleep. I realise that the proposals I have put forward are not perfect but I am always open to suggestions from honourable, members opposite as to how we can deal with more business in a reasonable time in order to give all honourable members adequate opportunities to speak. However, it is not an easy problem to solve. My proposals are a short term solution, probably, but they will not keep any honourable member here after 1 1 p.m., which I think is a reasonably fair proposition to both sides of the chamber. 
Very briefly, I thank those who have made constructive suggestions. I am not unmindful of the point of view of my friend opposite, which is quite reasonable. In regard to the remarks of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  I appreciate the need for back benchers to have time to speak in the adjournment debates. The reason why 10.30 p.m. was chosen was for consistency. Under the previous arrangement honourable members might not get mixed up but could quite easily miss out on speaking because the time for the adjournment motion to be moved was 10.15 p.m. on one night and 10.30 p.m. on another night. 
Quite frankly, I realise the problems of trying to give everybody an even go, particularly in private members' time. I would like to see some form of committee of this House review all the Standing Orders, without any disrespect to the Standing Orders Committee. In this enlightened age there is a need to revise a system which provided for 75 members of a House and which now is applied to 127 members. Parliaments have this problem all over the world. With due respect to the House of Commons and others, we probably get a better go on private members' views than others. 
I should like to see the Parliament talk at great length. I regret somewhat that it is not possible to have the Committee debates in this Parliament that we had when there were 75 members. They were great debates because all members participated. I shall keep in mind what the honourable member opposite just said but it is difficult to provide these opportunities when one decides the times of sittings. I think everybody agrees that to sit after about 1 1 o'clock at night becomes a bit of a farce in certain circumstances. At least these rules provide for an adjournment debate at a given time which preserves the right of private members. 
In regard to the suggestion of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  I hope that in the course of this Parliament we will get round to establishing a committee which will objectively examine all the proceedings. In general debates on important measures I should like to see a system whereby we could by mandate say that 2, 4 or 6 hours shall be given to discussion and we would not have many of the things which we now have that are time-wasting and which in the course of politics have to be debated by the Opposition. 
I shall keep in mind what the honourable member for Mackellar said and endeavour to see what can be done. I know that in days gone by the honourable member initiated a lot of good debates on the adjournment, particularly in the unity ticket days. They went well beyond 11.15 p.m. and they were his greatest hours. I am not unmindful of what was said. I assure honourable members that I shall think of the suggestions. Possibly we will have some form of discussion outside of the Standing Orders Committee that will increase for all of us the opportunity to participate in debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in relation to the proceedings on any Sales Tax 'Bills, so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent - 
the presentation and the first readings of the Bills together; 
one motion being moved and one question being put in regard to, respectively, the second readings, the committee's report stage, and the third readings, of all the Bills together, and 
the consideration of all the Bills as a whole together in a committee of the whole. 
This is just a machinery measure applied generally in the course of parliamentary sittings after the establishment of new parliaments. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I listened with interest and surprise to the honourable member's question. The statements he mentioned do come from a most authoritative source. As a matter of fact they come from  Senator Steele  Hall who at this stage is the only liberal in the Senate, and therefore must be listened to. I also understand that there are no shortcomings in the electoral system, as evidenced by the splendid result of the election of 18 May. It has also been brought to my attention, as the honourable member said, that a certain honourable gentleman opposite said that he did not win, but he did not lose. I suppose that is why we have not seen him at the Cabinet meetings lately. As for being the wrong election at the wrong time, that all depends on the side from which one looks at it. For this Government any time is a good time. 
Although the reason for the election on the last occasion was surprising, those who have seen the results and participated in the election will agree that so far as  Senator McManus  and the Democratic Labor Party are concerned it was the wrong time, the wrong election and the wrong result. But when one looks at some of the recruits to the Senate and some happy faces I see opposite one comes to the conclusion that they think it might have been the right time. I appreciate the concern that is expressed opposite as to the result of the elections. We have had one or two votes in this House and I do not know just what has happened but we have certainly been winning the divisions even though we are not supposed to have won the election. The Leader of the Opposition reminds me of that boxer in days gone by who, as he was going around the ring, said: 'Throw the towel in.'  His  trainer said: 'He hasn't laid a glove on you yet.' He replied: 'Well, keep your eye on the referee because somebody hit me.' 
I move: 
That a Joint Committee be appointed to inquire into, report on and make recommendations for - 
a balanced system of committees for the Parliament; 
the integration of the committee system into the procedures of the Parliament; and 
arrangements for committee meetings which will best suit the convenience of Senators and Members. 
That the committee consist of four Members of the House of Representatives nominated by the Prime Minister, two Members of the House of Representatives nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, one Member of the House of Representatives nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the House of Representatives, three Senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and two Senators nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a joint committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister or by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as1  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have power to appoint sub-committees consisting of three or more of its members and to refer to any such sub-committee any of the matters which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place and to sit during any recess or adjournment of the Parliament. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That seven members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That in matters of procedure the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  presiding at the meeting have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, have a casting vote, and that, in other matters, the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  have a deliberative vote only. 
That the committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
That the committee or a sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee may proceed to the despatch of business notwithstanding that all members of the committee have not been appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy on the committee. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting that it concur and take action accordingly. 
This motion is in broadly the same terms as the one which was passed by this House in August 1973. In view of that fact, I have no intention of speaking at great length on the motion. The substance of the motion is well known to honourable members and it received the endorsement of honourable members from both sides of the House when it was presented previously. In the last Parliament 40 committees were operating - 15 committees of this House and 25 committees of the Senate. Amongst those committees there was a great deal of cross-purpose investigation resulting in excess expenditure of time and money and in public servants giving the same evidence to different bodies of the same Parliament. In every way it was a complicated process which I believe a committee of the kind proposed could investigate. It could recommend means to simplify not only the operations of committees, but also to make them, in many cases, representative of the Parliament as a whole. In that way we could save not only the expense to the Parliament and the nation but also the time and energy of public servants giving the same evidence to different committees. I think, in a variety of ways, we could add to the deliberations of this Parliament by introducing a system that could be interwoven with the workings of both Houses and which would in every way suit members, the Parliament, the people and the public servants. 1 do not intend to rehash the debate that took place on the previous motion except to emphasise the essential need for the development of a balanced system of committees and the incorporation of the committee system into the procedures of the Parliament. This would permit the speeding up of the time taken in the deliberation of measures on the floor of the House and would result in a reduction in the wastage of money and manpower. I recall my speech of 22 August 1973 in which I stated that the conflict of interest between the meetings of these committees was, in itself, most inconvenient. It was proposed, as I said at that time, that this committee would make recommendations for a balanced system of committees for the Parliament, the integration of the committee system into the procedures of the Parliament and arrangements for committee meetings which would best suit the convenience of senators. At that time I also said: 
The committee system is a very important part of the legislative machinery of many parliaments throughout the world. 
For instance, in the Congress of the United States of America there are very important committees that do a tremendous amount of work. In addition, while I understand that committees of the House of Commons do not enjoy the same importance or at least have the same ramifications as those of the American Congress, they are important sections of the functioning of the British Parliament. 
This motion will overcome what members of both Houses are finding it exceedingly dif ficult to do, that is to regularly attend to Parliament, to the committees and in every way to deliberate on matters that come before them. We have problems in this House with quorums being called whilst committees are meeting. Sittings of the House and Party meetings prevent committee members attending committee meetings. There are not enough members to go around, as it were, because of the need to service so many committees. All in all there is a multiplicity of problems associated with the present procedure which we on this side of the Parliament believe should be streamlined. That is why this motion has again been submitted to the Parliament. 
I might say that the motion has been altered slightly from the previous motion in view of changes in another place due to the last elections. The proposed committee will comprise 7 members of this House and 5 members from another place. Four of the members of this House will be nominated by the Prime Minister. Two members will be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives and one member will be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. In the Senate 3 senators will be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and two by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. It will be a well balanced committee and in every way it will undoubtedly be able to give effect to what are comprehensive terms of reference. 
I hope that honourable members on both sides of the House will support the motion. On checking the last debate it will be seen that there was general agreement from both sides of this House that the purpose of this proposed committee was a good one and that the committee could, in every way, be of great assistance to members of this Parliament. Therefore I suggest to honourable members that this motion should be supported. As I have said, I hope that it will be. I look a little further ahead. I think that probably in relation to our Standing Orders and the procedures of this Parliament as time goes on we could give a little consideration to a somewhat similar committee. As I mentioned here, there is a great need not only to improve the committee system but also in many respects to update the procedures of this Parliament. This proposed committee could be the forerunner of some very fruitful and beneficial changes in the working of the Parliament in a general way. Very briefly, T commend this motion to the House. I will not go over again the arguments I advanced on the last occasion. If anything, in the time that has passed since the original motion was introduced and passed by this Parliament more than ever, with the summoning of this new Parliament, the need has been indicated to combine or co-ordinate the committee systems. I therefore hope that the Opposition will support this motion. 
I thank honourable members opposite for their constructive suggestions. Although they were critical of some aspects of the motion, undoubtedly its purpose is to attempt to overcome some of the problems that they mentioned. The proposition is to set up a joint committee. If there is some disagreement as regards the committee's terms of reference, that is a matter which the Committee can consider. Without being unduly complimentary, I should suggest that the 2 honourable members who spoke would make admirable members of the proposed committee. In that way no doubt they would be able to give effect to what they have mentioned today. But all in all this is a genuine attempt, whatever might be read into it, to get a committee system that does formalise proceedings, instead of the system consisting of numerous committees which we have today. As I said earlier, it is an attempt to make the committee system an integral part of the workings of the Parliament. I thank honourable members opposite for their support. 
I will not at this stage answer any of the questions that were raised. It is true that such a committee could consider the problems of staffing for new members, but I think all honourable members will agree that if this House were a concertina we would be set. But it is a problem, even when things are granted by  Mr Speaker  and others, to fit people into Parliament House. I hope that the next thing we debate in this Parliament will be the siting of the new and permanent Parliament House so that a decision can be taken and its construction commenced. Another problem that has arisen out of the development of our committee system is the need for space to house staff and additional members. However, I thank honourable members for their suggestions and I am hopeful that the Senate will agree to the motion also. In that way we will be able to set up a committee which ultimately will bring down recommendations to improve the present committee system. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Speaker,  the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  supported by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  has moved: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Australian Country Party from making a statement drawing the attention of the House to the serious charges made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro against members of the Australian Wool Corporation and as would prevent the honourable member for Eden-Monaro from substantiating his allegations with evidence he claims to have in his possession. 
I quote the terms of that motion in order to show that this motion is a complete misuse, for political purposes only, of the Standing Orders of this Parliament. 
Members of the Country Party have reason to hate the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. 
Did they not pull out of the New South Wales State Parliament the glamour boy of the Country Party, the member for Goulburn in the State House, and did not the honourable member for Eden-Monaro do him like a dinner? Today as the Leader of the Country Party-- 
Government supporters  -  He is out of his seat. 
As the Leader of the Country Party moved this motion-- 
I can understand honourable members opposite not wanting to hear a defence against the propositions that are being put forward. When the Leader of the Country Party moved this motion he indicated a bias, a bitterness, an envy and a hatred for the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. That is the basic principle behind this motion today. Everything that the members of the Country Party have said in respect of their policies was put to the Eden-Monaro electorate at the last election and the honourable member for EdenMonaro magnificently triumphed over the rotten polices put forward by those opposite. 1 will tell the House why this motion represents a misuse of Standing Orders. Members of the. Country Party have had limitless opportunities to move an appropriate motion. Why, had they wished to discuss this matter today they could have moved for consideration of this subject as a matter of public importance. But, no, they have seen fit to let the. honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  propose for discussion as a matter of public importance the subject of industrial problems. If the subject of this motion to suspend Standing orders is so important, why did not members of the Country Party take advantage of that form of the House? They did not because they know that the Liberals are. not behind them in respect of this motion. No member of the Liberal Party has spoken to the motion; they do not support it. Furthermore- (Opposition supporters interjecting) - 
Furthermore, why did not members of the Country Party raise this matter in great detail on the motion for the adjournment of the House last night? Why did they not wait until the resumption of the Address-in-Reply debate if necessary, and I mention to them to show- 

 - Mr Speaker, I hope you will take note of the fact that my speech has been deliberately interrupted to prevent me from putting my case to the House. On 16 July, as recorded on page 261 of Hansard the honourable member for Eden-Monaro had this to say: 
It is no secret that the members of the Wool Corporation have identified quite clearly with the political objectives of the Country Party. It is no secret that there have been discussions between the Wool Corporation and the leaders of the Country Party to devise this method of embarrassing the Government. 
Would one not think that such remarks would have stimulated the moving of a motion of the kind the Country Party Leader has moved today? But the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  spoke on the adjournment on the same night on the same subject and never bothered to mention these remarks. 
The fact of the matter is that the honourable member for Gwydir and other members of the Country Party woke up a day late. They have gone off like a delayed action bomb and now they want to suspend all the Standing Orders of the Parliament on a thing they did not think mattered when it was said. 
I have mentioned why. This matter was raised the other night and the members of the Country Party did not even bother to refute the allegations in this Parliament. Furthermore, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro has no intention of evading anything in this respect. If the Country Party raises the matter at the appropriate time it will be debated. An Address-in-Reply debate is coming on later in the day. Why does the Country Party not bring it up during that debate, and it will be answered? I suggest that when political stunts of this kind are put up by the Country Party they have to be answered in the same way as they are raised. Fancy the Country Party ' eing offended at what the honourable member for Eden-Monaro said, when during the last election campaign it filled the newspapers of this country with the most rotten advertisements ever seen in political history. I tell members of the Country Party quite frankly that they are all as rotten as they look in the advertisements, which were contemptible. 
I only point out how sensitive members of the Country Party become when they get hit themselves. Anything is good enough to attack the Labor Party on, but some fair and just criticism of the activities of those who manipulate the Country Party from their city dwellings and other places immediately brings forward this phoney storm of protest from the Leader of the Country Party. Have a look at the Country Party members. They would do anything to anybody and say anything about anybody at any time. Yet they are offended by a statement which was made in this Parliament which they never sought to refute for a couple of days. The Liberal Party does not even support them on this question. The Opposition usually has a  speaker  from both parties but this time the Liberal Party has moved for the discussion of a matter of public importance on a different subject. I congratulate the members of the Liberal Party for once on their sense and ability to see that the matter raised by the Country Party is a phoney proposition. 
Opposition members -  No. 
Opposition members -  Yes. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Anthony's)  be agreed to. 
 The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Prices to which the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr 
Garland) has been referring, had no knowledge of the unexpected attack that was to be made on the Committee by the honourable member. Consequently he will not speak tonight but no doubt he will do so later in the session. Let me say that one of the failures on the Committee was the honourable member for Curtin and we can understand why he made his comments tonight. He was not a very effective member of the Committee.  His  statements tonight have been misleading, incorrect and inaccurate. He failed to say that the Government has taken action on and notice of the proceedings of the Committee in a most commendable way. Complaints were made by many people to the Committee and were attended to following the deliberations of the Committee. The comments made by the honourable member tonight do him little credit. They are a very gross commentary on many of his own political colleagues who rendered great service on the Committee. It is unfortunate that he was not prepared to notify those members who were associated with him of his attack tonight so that it could have been more ably and extensively answered than I have done. 
It is amazing that apparently there is no co-operation between members of the Liberal Party and members of the Australian Country Party. Tonight they criticised the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  for not being here but notice has been given of a motion tonight which takes about half an hour to read. I understand that the Country Party did not even want it debated until the next day of sitting and did not see fit to move that it be debated onight. If it is to be debated next week, why should the honourable member for Eden-Monaro raise the matter a week early when the Country Party did not even think it worth debating until next week? I ask honourable members opposite: Why  do  you not get together? Why do you not co-operate? Why do you not understand? 
The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has given notice of a vote of censure of the Government in relation to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro but his supporters are going crook because we will not debate it a week earlier than he wants to debate it. How silly can you get? An honourable member who would talk under wet cement with weights on and who is one of those interjecting from the back bench on the Opposition side tonight wants us to debate this matter now when the Leader of the Country Party does not want it discussed for about another week. We do not mind. Why did he not move that we discuss it today? Why was not something done in that regard? Tonight a cowardly attack has been made on the honourable member for Eden-Monaro a week earlier than honourable members opposite want the matter debated. 
I wish to inform the House that I accept the notice of motion given on 18 July by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  as a censure motion for the purposes of standing order 110. I take it,  Mr Speaker,  that the notice of motion will .now be called on. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Minerals (Submerged Lands) (Royalty) Bill 1974 as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 I do not mind answering the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  He is one who had as secretary one of the most reputable members of the Public Service in Brisbane. After almost a lifetime of service the honourable member sacked her without any reason or principle because he understood she might have run against him in a pre-selection ballot. The honourable member has a contemptible and rotten record in respect of that matter and he knows, as well as I do, that he cannot stand up to public examination on it. The secretary that the honourable member sacked without any reason was recognised amongst members of the Public Service in Queensland and by mem bers of the Parliament as one of the most reputable of women. She personally told me that the honourable member for Griffith treated her in a contemptible manner. In addition, she told me he was a rotten member so far as representation was concerned. She said that the honourable member resented being informed of his incapacity as a representative of the people of his electorate. Yet, he is the individual who stands in this Parliament and tries to tell people- 
I move: 
That for the remainder of the year, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday at half-past ten o'clock a.m., or such time thereafter as  Mr Speaker  may take the Chair, on each Wednesday at twelve o'clock noon and on each Thursday at ten o'clock a.m. 
I do not intend to speak at great length on this motion. As honourable members are aware, we have for the coming week a rather heavy legislative program which the Government is anxious to complete. The purpose of these hours is to fit in the business and to allow adequate time for discussion. Although the motion states that these hours shall stand for the remainder of the year, it is my intention to review the hours at the commencement of the Budget session. I accordingly advise honourable members of that intention. I do not say that these hours will continue into the next session. I know that on Tuesday and Wednesday mornings honourable members from both sides of the House like to be as free as possible. Because of the business which is to be placed before the House and political events that are pending, I ask honourable members to adopt this motion as a temporary measure at this stage. It will be reviewed later in the year. 
in reply- Briefly, I thank the Opposition for its support of this motion. I have listened with particular interest to the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  I, too, would like to see different sitting hours for the Parliament. I hope that between now and the Budget session we can look at the matter he has raised and see whether something can be done. In some parliaments of the world one night of the week is completely free, be it for committee work, social activities or desirable things such as that. The question of sitting through meal hours also is worth considening. I undertake to discuss this very fully with members of the Opposition before the Budget session to see whether we can work out something which will give us the same number of hours but at the same time cover the matters the honourable member mentioned. I think it is a matter the Parliament could well consider by forming a special committee, because not only this aspect but also other aspects of the administration of the Parliament could be jointly made much better than they are now. I undertake to look at the honourable member's suggestions to see what can be done, and I will have discussions with the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Wonders never cease. Today we have heard the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  speak on the Australian Post Office. I have been a member of this Parliament for a long time and I suppose this would be the honourable member's first speech on the Post Office since, to use his own words, he swam bare-arsed in the Condamine. It has taken him as long to make that speech as I think it took the Liberal Party after the 1949 election to put value back into the 1. But today the honourable member was so stirred up by the changes in the Postal Department that he detached himself temporarily from the worries of his small debts practice, frustrated and indignant, suffering no doubt the pangs of remorse at the possible loss of increased rewards for his almost unlimited parliamentary talents, and gave us an entertaining oration on all that is wrong with the Post Office. What I like about this is that the honourable member is becoming better informed on this matter every day because he is reading the speeches of members of the former Opposition which are so indelibly recorded in Hansard. The more he quotes from them the better his speeches are. They are intelligent, we are receptive to them and we know that they are full of good meaty matter that he could not derive from any other study of parliamentary material. But the honourable member is frightened of the Vernon report. I wonder whether he is frightened of the size of it or the red covers. We know that he is somewhat averse to that colour. I think he is frightened to turn the pages in case he finds behind the vivid covers of that book something very informative and things to which he is not partial. 
It is interesting to hear members of the Opposition, particularly the honourable member for Moreton and members of the Australian Country Party, demanding bigger and better services from the Post Office for less and less cost. It is a remarkable approach and it is so very different to the returns for which they ask - particularly the members of the Country Party - for those who produce the wealth in the country areas. Let me give the House an idea of some of the costs involved in running the Post Office. I am informed that it costs up to $3,000 to instal in any country city a telephone service and that it costs up to $9,000 in rural areas. Nobody complains that these services are not required but costs like those have to be met and it is for that reason, amongst others, that charges of this nature have to be imposed from time to time in order not only to provide the service but also to enable money to be available for it from the revenue that is received. Let it be clearly understood that if legislation of this sort is defeated it will mean that we will have less money for social services, less money for pensions and less money for health. The money has to come from somewhere and if we have to subsidise losses such as those incurred by the Post Office undoubtedly social services will suffer. That could easily be the result if legislation of this kind is defeated. In that case, there would have to be a cutback on the social welfare scheme. Interwoven into the economy is the need for organisations like the Post Office to pay their own way in order that we may be able to assist in avenues of social welfare those who are needy instead of subsidising a service that should pay its own way. 
The Vernon report stated that the postal services were running at a loss and the telecommunications services were running at a slight profit, but by 1975 both the postal and telecommunication services would be running at a loss. This cannot be continued. Whichever Party might be in government on this side of the chamber it would undoubtedly have to face up to this responsibility. No one can deny that the Vernon report is an excellent document. The gentleman responsible for it is reputed to be of very high integrity and ability. He brought down the report which is a commendable one. It has been presented to the Parliament so that we all. may know his views on the Post Office. Both the services that I mentioned earlier should meet their own costs and should not run at a loss. That was one of the findings of the Vernon report. According to the Vernon report taxpayers should not have to meet the losses. Do those people who sit opposite disagree with that statement? Do they think the Post Office ought to be subsidised extensively or that no attempt should be made to make ends meet? 
The proposed increases are an endeavour to make up this leeway and to make available money for social welfare schemes, pensions and other things of that nature. Post Office customers should cover the cost of the services which they use. That is not unreasonable. I do not think they should be a charge directly on the taxpayers. This would leave more money to the Government for education, health and matters of that nature. Higher wages, the increased price of materials and increases in the cost of providing and maintaining services have necessitated increases in postal and telephone charges, as every honourable member on the other side of the House knows. The charges for some of these services have not been increased for years. The public telephone call rate has not been increased since 1963. Telegram rates have not been increased since 1970. The local call rate was last increased in October 1971. The rates charged hardly ever cover the cost of providing the services although the rise in the connection fee - an increase of $20 from $60 to $80 - appears to be high. 
Even in the honourable member's small debts practice a person could not see him for $20. Honourable members must bear in mind that the proposed increased connection fee covers only a very small proportion of the total cost of providing new telephone services particularly services in country areas. If I may interpolate at this point, whilst the honourable member for Moreton may charge more, I think a person would get only $20 worth of service. Some charges have been reduced substantially under this legislation, such as the charges for trunk calls. Members of the Country Party should be happy for once in a while if they can manage to smile occasionally. The shortest distance rate has been reduced by 20 per cent for calls during the day and by 40 per cent for calls at night. Calls at night up to 50 kilometres will now be charged at the local call rate. This will be of great benefit to country people. That is a real benefit which is being granted by the only country party in the Parliament - the Australian Labor Party. That is something that should have won commendation from the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  because he knows it is a valuable benefit. I know .that most of the people in his electorate probably go to bed early at night because it is a dairying constituency. But if they stay up a little longer at night they will find out that there is a considerable amount of money to be saved. So under this legislation people in country districts .will benefit. We think of all these sorts of things. 
I do not want to list all the increases that have been proposed because they have been elaborated on by members on the other side of the House. The telephone connection fee has been increased by $20. Telephone service rentals for business and residential premises have gone up by $20 and $10 respectively. In both cases the rate was last adjusted in October 1973. Surely no one can quibble about the increases in those charges because the service is used particularly in the business field and possibly in the residential area for the purpose of attracting customers and things of that nature. Therefore the cost must be met. The rate for local telephone calls has been unchanged since 1971. It has been increased by 1.25c. The longest distance day rate has been increased by 25 per cent and the shortest distance day rate by 20 per cent, and the night rate has been reduced by 40 per cent. They are worth repeating because they are commendable efforts. In 1963 the public telephone call rate was 5c. It is now to be 10c - an increase of 5c after a period of almost 11 years. 
The percentage does not matter; it is the length of time that is so important. The rate for telegrams has been increased by 50 per cent. The only person who will worry about this, as far as I can see, will be the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  who sends out telegrams in 800 lots. This increase might even steady up his expenditure because he has been speaking about saving on public expenditure. However, it will now cost him a lot more to send out 800 telegrams and perhaps he may be inclined as he seems to be taking on other things, to save a bit of money on things like this. Special fees are to go up from 20c to 30c, an increase of 10c. They have not been increased since 
October 1973. All in all, whilst regretting the need to increase prices on anything, including commodities, there is a case to be made out at this stage to review the situation particularly when it is based on the Vernon report which went very deeply into these matters. The need to increase charges is substantiated by the substance of that report. The increases have not been imposed in the hapazard way adopted by the previous Government. 
I was moved to speak by the enthusiasm of the honourable member for Moreton. One good thing is that evidently his mail is getting through because he read out a letter. I thought his mail might have been delayed but it is nice to know his mail is getting through. Under a former Postmaster-General when the letter machine was installed at Redfern people were getting their mail a bit at a time because the machine was chewing it up. At least the present Postmaster-General ensures that letters get through the machine at Redfern and people get the full letter, not a bit at a time as was the case when  Sir Alan  Hulme was in office. I support this important legislation. It will bring in revenue amounting to $140m in the ensuing year and this will be put to good effect and enable the social services scheme to be expanded. I do not think that people who use this great service will object to the proposed increases because they know that they are necessary if the service is to make ends meet. Let me say to members of the Australian Country Party that they have been subsidised very heavily by the amounts I mentioned a moment ago. I would have thought that they would enthusiastically support this Bill in order that the service may be maintained. 
I am certain that the honourable member for Maranoa will rise to speak on this matter. I hope that he will pay credit to the Australian Labor Party for reducing the cost of long distance calls and for the contributions we have made to enable his electors to get in touch with him. He is one of the members of the Country Party who I think is probably worth ringing up occasionally, because he might do something. Therefore, there is an opportunity for the honourable member to pay tribute to the Labor Party for what it is doing for country people. As one who comes from Currabubula, I commend the Government on that section of the 
Bill, knowing full well the benefit it will bring to country people. I support the Bill. 
 I wish to refer to the intemperate remarks made last evening by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  Attacks were directed against me and officers of my Department, against their integrity, their objectivity and sense of fair play. They were attacks made against a group of officers and myself who have inherited the shocking neglect of the Liberal-Country Party Government in relation to the treatment of members of this House and of the Senate in the performance of their electorate and parliamentary duties - against officers who have assisted me in providing improved and reasonable conditions of service for members of Parliament. These officers do not expect thanks from the honourable member for doing their duty but at least they are entitled to expect a fair go. 
I say without hesitation that I have received the compliments of honourable members on both sides of this House on the improvements that have been made in the facilities for senators and members since the Labor Party came to office and their thanks for the helpful attitude of my officers. Parliamentary officers in Brisbane are no exception. 
Let me refer to some of the matters raised by the honourable member for Griffith last evening. It is of course possible for any person, with perhaps the exception of the honourable member, to make mistakes, and mistakes are made from time to time, although I by no means acknowledge that mistakes have been made in any of the instances to which he referred. With regard to the pool of relief secretary-typists which has been established on my initiative to assist honourable members to tide them over special difficulties associated with their office, as he admits, the establishment of the pool was assential because of the neglect which we had tolerated for so long under the Liberal-Country Party Government. Something had to be done and it was done resolutely. All appointments to the pool of secretary-typists are made by the Permanent Head of my Department and in no case have they been referred to me. In no case has the politics, race or creed of any individual secretary been relevant to appointments. All honourable members in this House will bear testimony to the extraordinary service provided by these girls who are appointed on the basis of their qualifications and ability, and on no other basis. Members of the pool are allocated to work for members of this House or of the Senate on the basis of priority established by requests to the parliamentary officer of my Department. I do not exercise and do not seek to exercise any direction over the allocation of these secretary-typists. 
In Queensland and other States during the election period the secretaries were allocated in the normal course in priority of receipt of request. In search of something to smear my Department with, the honourable member says that he challenged the situation with a departmental official - unnamed of course - from the Department of Services and Property who told him that nobody else had asked for help. He acknowledges this situation but claims that they had not asked for help because of the instruction that had been issued relating to the misuse of the pool. I think that that is mischievous nonsense! It is true that ex-Senator Condon Byrne requested the services of a pool stenographer.  His  request was not refused. He was informed that a stenographer would be made available to him in order of priority and as soon as one became available. He accepted the situation like the man that he is. 
The honourable member also states that I gave directions that these secretaries were not to be used for political purposes. No such direction has ever been given, as everything done in a member's office both before and during election time is for political purposes. How absurd it would be to suggest that the pool could be increased to cater for the demands of all senators and members in a matter of one or two days.  Senator Condon  Byrne accepted the response that was given to him and there is no record of any complaint by him. It is interesting to note that, wallowing in his accustomed mire, the honourable member for Griffith received a complaint net from  Senator Byrne  but from 'a person who was at that time vitally associated with the Democratic Labor Party senator', to use his words. Why this anonymity. The honourable member's reference to his experience in relation to the availability of extra space in the Australian Parliament Offices, Brisbane, is just as untruthful and malicious as his statement relating to the pool of relief secretary-typists. 
I turn now to the appointment of the former electorate secretary to  Mr Frank  Doyle. Is the honourable member commenting on the competence of this lady? Of course he is not, because she is an extraordinarily able secretary who would command a position in any circumstances. Indeed, she has performed duties for the honourable member himself in his own office and we have no adverse report from him about her. But it is typical of the small-minded, puny approach of the honourable member that under the privilege of this Parliament he seeks to vilify a girl of such exceptional merit. The appointment was made by the Secretary of my Department who has no apologies whatever to offer for the action taken by him in ensuring that such outstanding competence as that displayed by her is available to honourable members. I might add that from time to time the Permanent Head of my Department employs a close relative of the honourable member in his personal office and this should convince honourable members that he is not given to partiality in these matters. 
Those who are in this House will know that with the change of government it is customary for Ministers and members to take over the services of dedicated, competent secretaries and stenographers without regard to their political affiliations. I have the honour of having 3 such girls in my own office. The allegation of partiality in this matter is unpardonabale. May I remind the honourable member that the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  a Liberal Party member, was a Solicitor-General and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  was a former employee of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Yet the honourable member for Griffith seeks to deny a girl a typing position because she happens to be a member of a political party opposed to his own. 
The honourable member for Griffith has made an unprincipled attack under privilege upon an innocent, competent and defenceless young woman and it is to be deplored. I can assure the honourable member that in no circumstances would I tolerate any officer of my Department asking the political affiliations of any member of the typing pool, nor would .in honourable member be encouraged to reject the services of a pool secretary because of her political affiliations, such a suggestion would be condemned by all members of this House: We do not appoint by party affiliation. 
Next, let me deal with the allocation of an office to  Senator Milliner  in the Australian Government Centre, Brisbane. It is true that there are certain conventions relating to seniority that are observed in the allocation cf offices to senators or members of Parliament but the whole situation has been so improved by my Department since this Government came to office that senators and members generally are quite happy with what we have been able to do for them.  Senator Milliner  approached my Department prior to the election. He mentioned that he had additional responsibilities by virtue of his position as  chairman  of the Parliamentary Publications Committee and  chairman  of the Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. He is also a member of the education, science and arts committee of this parliament as well as the library committee. In addition, his position as a senator makes heavy demands on his time attending to repesentations from all sections of the people of Queensland. In the circumstances he sought additional space. 
At that stage there had been no request made to my Department for the allocation of  Senator Gair's  office. Nevertheless, the matter was held over for some time and in the absence of further representations, the parliamentary office was allocated to  Senator Milliner  on a temporary basis and on the clear understanding that it should be available for reallocation for ministerial and other purposes in due course if circumstances necessitated.  Senator Milliner,  gentleman that he is. accepts this situation and is prepared to honour it. I might add that the area of the office is about 430 sq. ft. It is not a large office, less spacious indeed than I have planned to allocate to all members of this parliament as time and resources permit. 
Subsequently and after the allocation of space the Honourable Kevin Cairns wrote to me about the allocation of the office to  Senator Milliner  and seeking information concerning the normal principles observed in allocation. I have written to him confirming the principles associated with allocation but it is relevant in this context to note that it is just not possible to allocate on a preferential basis space in Government offices to former Ministers who have been re-elected after a significant electoral defeat, particularly where the office in question is not vacant. I believe,  Mr Speaker,  that there is no point in wasting the time of the House with further information concerning the accusations made by the honourable member against my own personal integrity and the integrity of the officers of my department.  His  approach is puny and vicious, to say the least. I have said enough to indicate that what he has said lacks truth, lacks appreciation for what has been done, lacks objectivity and demonstrates a lack of the normal courtesies that one might expect to find in a member of this House. I would suggest that the decent thing for him to have done before be made these wild and unprincipled attacks on innocent people would have been to discuss these matters with me, as it would then have been apparent to him after discussion that there was no basis whatever for the allegations. 
It is true to say that the cost of renting, purchasing and building properties is very high today. The cost to the Commonwealth is very great. It is true to say also that that is due to the failure of the policies of those who now sit opposite, during their long term in government. My Department already has opened a number of government instrumentalities. We are decentralising and in every way we will give attention to country districts. 
To give more impetus to my reply I wish to say that, like the Leader of the Opposition, I have been reading the newspapers and have gone through some of my old files. On 9 December 1949 the advertisement that I hold in my hand appeared in the newspapers. It is headed 'This is Our Policy'. It relates to the policy of the Liberal Party. The advertisement promises 'reduced living costs and increased living standards'. It mentions putting the shillings back into the pounds. The LiberalCountry Party Government had to change the name of the currency to get away from that promise. Under the sub-heading 'Progressive Social Services' is a promise of 'child endowment for the first child, without reduction of the basic wage'. There is also a reference to reduced taxation. 
To go a little further in answering the honourable member's question, there is a reference in a similar advertisement inserted at that time to 'lower prices' and the promise of 'a 's worth for every  you spend'. When the Liberal-Country Party Government went out of office in 1972 the cost of living had never been higher and people had never been getting less. There was also a promise in this advertisement of 'homes and home ownership at reasonable costs'. I think that the only things to fall under the Liberal-Country Party's administration were the bookies' prices at Randwick. I think I should add this collection to that of the Leader of the Opposition. After all the Labor Government has had only about 18 months in which to implement its policies and it has had to contend with a hostile .Opposition in the Senate, whereas the Liberal-Country Party Government had 25 years in which to fulfil its pledges but did not do so. I will bring the Leader of the Opposition up to date on policy matters if he cares to come to my office. 
I thank the Opposition for its co-operation in relation to the passage of this Bill and congratulate the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  on the splendid exhibition he gave at extremely short notice. Might I say that I would use what little influence I have with the authorities to ensure that when the proceedings of the Parliament are being televised he plays a prominent part because with his distinguished looks, ready wit and pleasant speech he would be undoubtedly a real riot in the first televising of the Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
by leave - I move: 
That this House resolves that it be a rule and order of the House of Representatives that at a joint sitting with the Senate the proceedings are proceedings in Parliament and that the powers, privileges and immunities of members of this House shall mutatis mutandis be those relating to a sitting of this House. 
This motion has been moved as a result of, to give him due honour, a suggestion by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  in connection with the application of section 49 of the Constitution in relation to a joint sitting of the Parliament. It is one that has been thought fit by the honourable member for Wentworth, in consultation with the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  to be one that should apply to the joint sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of the resolution agreed to earlier this day by the House of Representatives relating to the participation of the Australian Parliament in the Constitutional Convention. 
This is a normal procedure following the action taken by the House this morning. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
'by leave  - I  move: 
That the following rules be adopted for the conduct of the business of a joint sitting with the Senate: 
I move: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
I wish to take this opportunity to reply to certain statements made last night by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  In a pathetic expose of his puny minded approach to an outstandingly successful experiment initiated by me and directed towards the assistance of members of this Parliament, the honourable member for Griffith has continued his malicious attacks on me and on my Department. The honourable member had no need to do this when the Party which he supports was in government because it did not provide such services. Let me outline once again the facts of the, situation for the benefit of all honourable members. 
The relief typing pool was established by me in order to provide extra assistance to members of the Parliament, both Senate and House of Representatives, in their electoral work. The pool is established within the Department of Services and Property. All appointments to the pool are made by the Permanent Head of my Department on the recommendation of the Chief Property Officer in each of the States. I have not been consulted in relation to any of the appointments. In making appointments no regard is paid to colour, creed or political Party. The allocation of stenographers from the pool is made by the Parliamentary Officer of the Department of Services and Property again without any reference to me, and allocations are made in order of receipt of request. 
The pool is not able to cater for all of the demands made upon it and therefore some members have been, and will continue to be, required to wait until a stenographer is available. From time to time members of both Parties have approached me to seek preferment and I have directed them to the Parliamentary Officer of my Department but have not sought to intervene in his decision. It is true that in many cases stenographers have been allocated, strictly in order of receipt of request, to members of the Australian Labor Party. The reason for this is clear. As is demonstrated so frequently in the House, members of the Australian Labor Party have shown in this, as in so many other matters, a great deal more intelligence and foresight and have planned their work in such a way as to be able to forecast their requirements more accurately. 
Now I will deal with the specific complaints. It is true that  Senator Marriott  of Tasmania rang me before the elections and was told that stenographers from the pool would be allocated in order of priority of receipt of request and in consequence  Senator Marriott  did not qualify for the allocation of a stenographer at that time. I understand there are two or three in that State.  Senator Marriott  did have the services of a member of the pool available to him on a shared basis from 30 April 1974 to 17 May 1974.  Senator Lillico  had the services of a stenographer from 6 April 1974 to 26 April 1974. I have had no complaints about the allocation of stenographers from the pool in Tasmania. I have merely heard it remarked that my Department must be regarded as scrupulously fair, since one of the stenographers in the pool in Tasmania was observed during the recent election handing out how to vote cards for a Liberal candidate. 
Insofar as South Australia is concerned, requests were received from one member of this House and one senator. Those requests were subsequently withdrawn because the senator concerned proposed to retire and the electorate secretary of the honourable member concerned decided to remain at her post in view of the coming election. I turn now to the 'blatant misuse of political power' in South Australia.  Senator Jessop  is alleged to have said: 'I had to roar like a bull to get help'. The roar of the Jessop bull did not make any impact on the Richter scale, I can assure honourable members. Indeed it was seen in my Department at Canberra as the cooing of a dove.  Senator Jessop  spoke to an officer of my Department in Adelaide who informed him that all stenographers were engaged. In an effort to be helpful he invited  Senator Jessop  to speak to the Parliamentary Officer of my Department in Canberra. The honourable senator did this, without histrionics and not in a belligerent way, but he did indicate that he wanted the services of a particular stenographer and his agitation stemmed from the fact that this particular stenographer was not available at the time. I might say in this context that I have instructed my Department that when honourable members and senators make use of the pool they will be required to take the pool member who is available, since all are extremely competent; otherwise members' names will be removed from the list. It is clear that, no matter how one tries to assist honourable members, there are those who, like the honourable member for Griffith, by nature are ungrateful and by breeding spiteful and unappreciative. 
Now I will deal with the case of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  What a commentary it is on the arrogance and the inverted snobbery of a member of parliament when his colleague can quote him as saying: 'I spoke to some peanut and I had to put on quite a performance. It was begrudgingly given'. If the honourable member put on a performance, nobody noticed it. My Department has indicated, perhaps wrongly, that a request was received from the honourable member for Boothby in a temperate and courteously phrased way and he was given the assistance that he requested. In the case of  Senator Jessop  the assistance was given from 6 May 1974 to 17 May 1974 and in the case of the honourable J. E. McLeay from 6 May 1974 to 24 May, that is, during the whole period of the election. I might add that my Department has indicated that the honourable J. E. McLeay has had assistance from the pool equal to if not more than that available to any member of either Party since its inception. 
The records indicate that in most cases where assistance was requested it was given and officers of my Department left no stone unturned to help honourable senators and members. Requests for assistance from members of the Government have been refused more often than those of the Opposition, because the former have sought to use the service more. Honourable members of the House will feel, as I do, a profound sense of disgust that a service which has been of such benefit to all sides of the House is execrated by the honourable member, who has demonstrated by his attacks nothing beyond the fact that he is unworthy to receive any such assistance. In his arrogant, intemperate way he has cast aspersions on those operating the pool in all States. Let him not complain if those on whom he has cast aspersions decline to work for him in the future. For my part, I would find it extremely difficult in view of his venemous attacks to issue instructions to those who might feel that he does not deserve the privileges which have been made available by this Government. And as for the 'bull's roar' of  Senator Jessop  and the arrogance of the honourable member for Boothby, let me say simply that I am sufficiently acquainted with the officers responsible for this efficient service to know that they are unlikely to be intimidated and that they will give assistance, fully and freely where it is required and not on the basis of threats. 
I should perhaps comment on the honourable member's remarks in relation to the allocation of space in the Brisbane office to  Senator Milliner.  I said that I had not been consulted about the allocation of rooms in Brisbane. I repeat that. I repeat also that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has written to me but I am not in the habit of regarding representations to me as 'consultation'. 
I will table or I will incorporate in Hansard for the benefit of the honourable member, if he so desires, a table setting out the names of those members of Parliament who have had assistance from this pool since it was established. I point out that, since the relief pools were established in July 1973, 100 senators and members have used the services of the pools. The Australian Labor Party has used it on 45 occasions, the Liberal Party on 39, the 
Country Party on 12, the Democratic Labor Party on 3 and independents on one occasion. So 55 per cent of the service has gone to members of the Opposition. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the name of every member who used the service. 
I thank the House. I do not think the honourable members for Griffith does himself any good when as Minister, I am trying to do the right thing by members in providing staff and other facilities, attacks of an unwarranted nature are made in this way. I regret that the honourable member has seen fit to do it. If other honourable members share his view, they should let me know, because there is no need for them to take advantange of the service. 
I propose to the Joint Sitting for its  Chairman  the honourable member for Sydney,  Mr Cope. 

 - Mr Acting Chairman, I repeat the words that I used when I first introduced this Bill to the Parliament on 13 March 1973. 1 said: 
Free elections are basic to a democratic society. But free elections by themselves are not enough- the results must reflect the will of the majority both in individual constituencies and throughout the nation. If the electoral laws do not result in the Government desired by the majority- if they are manipulated to reflect the political interest of persons or partiesit would be a denial of the very essence of democracy and a travesty of the electoral process. The Government, mindful of its mandate and responsibility, is determined to ensure that the Australian electoral laws embrace those fundamental principles of human rights and democracy in this nation. 
Only those who believe in a selective form of democracy will oppose the principle of equality of voting and the elections of governments by the majority. The Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party of Australia come within this category. The members of the Country Party depend on this form of democracy for their survival, individually and as a Party. Like poodles, members of the Liberal Party yap along at their heels. The Opposition Parties have undermined the basic democratic principles of elections. The value of one vote of one citizen is no longer equivalent to the vote of a citizen in another part of the country. A political party like the Country Party which rarely receives more than about 10 per cent of the votes of the Australian people has a disproportionate influence on the welfare of this nation. If any proof of that is wanted,  Senator Steele  Hall today rent asunder the false policies put forward by the Country Party in a speech which showed why he lost the premiership of South Australia on the basis of just electoral reform. Is it any wonder that the Labor Party gives him its preferences in South Australia? I give the honourable senator the good oil that if he keeps on going as he has on this issue he will continue to get them, because these issues are important. 

 Senator Withers brought out the question of the electoral boundaries which  Senator Hall  had introduced. He did not say that a Tory Upper House which  Senator Withers  supports was all that stopped him from adopting the principle of one vote one value. He did not say either that before  Senator Steele  Hall had a redistribution of electorates in South Australia, electorates under the 'Playmander' in that State ranged from 4,800 persons to 46,000. This is the policy that those opposite put up today.  Senator Withers  spoke of raising the dead and of the need to vote early and often. Looking at a few members of the Liberal Party I reckon that they have some dead votes and that if there were more cemeteries in their electorates a few of them would not be here. 

 Senator Withers complained also about the Western Australian redistribution when it was introduced in the Senate. I shall quote from what  Senator Withers  said about the Western Australian redistribution in the Senate on 16 July 1974. This was the redistribution for which I as Minister had the responsibility.  Senator Withers  said that in Western Australia it had been shown quite clearly that the Government believes in a fair and just redistribution. This is the man who has just said it was not fair. The Australian Labor Party in that State won 5 seats with 46 per cent of the votes, and the Liberal party won 5 seats. It took 2 Country Party seats from the Country Party. Evidently there is a Country Party over there that cannot win country seats, so  Senator Withers  has no reason to sling off at the Labor Party. This Opposition has consistently opposed the question of electoral reform as  Senator Steele  Hall, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and other speakers have said. In government it refused to debate the legislation. In opposition it has opposed the Government's legislation and ignored the mandate given to the Whitlam Government in 1972. This legislation has passed the House of Representatives 3 times and still the Opposition opposes it. It has ignored, again as other speakers have said, the endorsement by the Australian people on 18 May 1974. 
It has forced the nation to the first Joint Sitting in the history of this country. Having taken the proposal for the Joint Sitting once to the High Court, it has even said it is going to take it there again and so deny the people their democratic rights. This shows that there are sinister reasons why the Opposition opposes the legislation, one being that the Country Party wins only on weighted electorates. Having a good look at the Country Party members one would have to know that they could not win fairly, that they would have to have something in their favour in order to get the support of the country people. The Opposition parties are fighting desperately to have existing inequalities in the electoral system retained. The Country Party is clinging desperately to existing laws which give it a greater voice in the government and in the Parliament than its numbers warrant. Its survival depends on weighted electorates. The Liberal Party, as I said before, puts expediency before principle for the doubtful support of its strange and weird political allies. 
This Bill seeks to reduce the permissible variation from one-fifth to one-tenth. It removes certain factors regarding electoral redistribution, and disabilities arising out of remoteness of distance and density or sparsity of population of a division and the area. It also provides that there shall be a redistribution when one-fourth of divisions of a State vary below or above the permissible tolerance. These changes were in the main inserted by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1965 and were designed to weight electorates. The great white father of the Country Party,  Sir John  McEwen, said this when he introduced them in 1965: 
There is in this measure a provision which I say unashamedly I hope will operate to bring out more tolerance towards the permitting of a smaller number of electors in the gigantic, remote and difficult electorates. 
That has resulted in the weighting of these electorates today. At that time the emphasis was removed from the quota to factors. We on this side of the Parliament believe that electorates should be equal, that one vote should have one value and that no person's vote should be worth more than that of another person, regardless of whether he lives in a city or country area. Chief Justice Warren of the Supreme Court of the United States of America has been quoted today by the Prime Minister. In his findings in one case in the Supreme Court of the United States of America, Chief Justice Warren said: 
Legislators represent people, not trees or acres . . . The weight of a citizen 's vote cannot be made to depend on where he lives. 
On having a good look at the Country Party, I think a few sheep have a vote. The Bill seeks to introduce equity and fairness into the electoral system. At the present time Federal electorates within the same State vary. For instance, in New South Wales the electorate of Mitchell has 82,864 electors, which is 35,038 electors or 73 per cent more than the electorate of Darling. In Victoria, the electorate of Diamond Valley has 87,725 electors or 38,213 electors more than the electorate of Wimmera, which has 49,512 electors. In Queensland, the electorate of McPherson has 90,525 electors or 43,032 electors more than the electorate of Maranoa, which has 47,493 electors. In New South Wales, the LiberalCountry Party Government has a redistribution every 4 years and electorates vary from 1 9,000 to 29,000 electors. The 10 per cent variation in the quota for which this Bill provides will greatly reduce the disparity between electorates. For example, the maximum difference between electorates in New South Wales will be 12,950 electors as against 25,500 electors at present and in Victoria it will be 12,844 electors as against 25,690 electors at present. 
The Australian Country Party, which is fighting so vigorously against these proposals, as  Senator Steele  Hall and others have said today, have never polled more then 10.9 per cent of the total vote but has exercised a parliamentary vote of between 16 per cent and 17 per cent and a ministerial influence of more than 20 per cent in Cabinets. On 18 May last the Country Party polled 10.7 per cent of the votes. It has a voting strength of 16.5 per cent in this House and a 44 per cent influence in the Liberal-Country Party inner Cabinet. The people of Queensland, under the greatest operator of all time in respect of electoral gerrymanders in the Country Party Premier of Queensland, have a gerrymander inflicted upon them today which has been described as the worst gerrymander the world has ever seen. The last vestige of democracy has gone under the administration of the Country Party Government in Queensland. It was even described by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)-  at the time he was State  President  of the Liberal Party of Australia- as being electoral injustice at Country Party insistence. Is it any wonder that the Country Party is today fighting these proposals. Let us listen to what the family newspaper had to say about a speech by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in Murwillumbah on 15 June 1964. 1 understand that its name is the 'Murwillumbah Daily Times'. This is what it reported its favourite son as saying on the Queen's birthday 

 Mr Anthony said the task of electoral reform was probably one of his worst jobs as Minister for the Interior and one on which his political future hinged. 
In other words, he was going to direct the electoral Commissioners to draw the boundaries to suit the Country Party. That is why he made that statement at that time. 
I mention the following matters in order to bring the situation up to date: In Queensland, for instance, the Australian Labor Party with 48 per cent of the votes- more than the combined total of the votes of all the other parties- holds only 33 seats; yet the combined parties with 42 per cent of the votes hold 47 seats. In Queensland it takes 13,045 votes to elect a Labor member, 9,600 votes to elect a Liberal member and 6,972 votes to elect a Country Party member. That is what the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review has described as a gerrymander. Is it any wonder that the Liberal and Country parties fight to retain this undemocratic situation. The timeworn arguments of the tories that are as old as those who sit in the South Australian Upper House have been trotted out today to support the Opposition's policies, which  Senator Steele  Hall who is, unfortunately, from what I can see the only liberal in the Parliament, has publicly condemned from this platform and in other places. It is no good saying that he is a communist, which is what honourable members and senators opposite say about others, because he is one of their own who has seen the light and who- in relation to this cause at least- has joined those who sit on the right side of the fence. I did not think anywhere hidden in the Liberal Party was a man with his intelligence and foresight. Whilst most Liberals know when to get out of the wet this man has done it on principle, and that is so different from other members of the Liberal Party. Not only the Australian Labor Party supports equality of representation. The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, the Supreme Court of the United States and the Federal Council of the Liberal Party of Australia, though that is not exactly a good recommendation, support equality of representation as well.  Dr Hughes,  the Liberal Party candidate in the next Senate election and the candidate in the last election for the seat of Canberra, on behalf of the Liberal Party in Canberra made a submission for equality of electors in the 2 electorates in this district. So, why do members of the Opposition say that there should not be equality of electorates? 
The Opposition argues that Labor is gerrymandering electorates to entrench itself in power. Gerrymandering, as everyone knows, is the creation of electoral divisions which give certain parties favoured treatment. Of course, what the Country Party supports are gerrymanders by legislation- not by direction to the distribution commissioners- which forces them to take a certain line. It is a real attack on the integrity of the commissioners to say that the Labor Party is endeavouring to effect a gerrymander. The Act lays down that in each State the Electoral Officer, the Surveyor-General and one other person with similar qualifications shall be appointed as distribution commissioners. If the Opposition wants to know how long that provision has been in the Act, I point out that it has been there since 1902. Therefore, there is that protection which has been in existence since 1902 which relates to the men who are appointed as distribution commissioners. It did very little credit to  Senator Withers  in another place under the privilege of Parliament to attack the integrity of men who, everyone knows, have a high standing in the community. On the last occasion one of them was appointed by the Liberal Party itself. There is a safeguard against gerrymanders in this Parliament. Whenever legislation on electoral boundaries is presented it must come before both Houses of the Parliament. If one House of the Parliament rejects that legislation it can then be sent back to the commissioners. The Country Party has said that these provisions have not been changed since 1900. In 1965, when the Opposition was in Government, it amended the Electoral Act and some provisions which had been contained in the Act since 1902. So it was good enough for the previous Government to amend the Act after 65 years but it is not good enough for the Labor Party to amend it after 74 years. What kind of reasoning is that? 
The Opposition parties have spoken about a frequent redistribution. Even at this stage, under the law that has been in existence since 1902, the Government can have a redistribution every year if it so desires because a redistribution can be made as the Governor-General thinks fit. That provision is contained in the law at this time. No matter what percentage there is above or below the quota, it makes no difference to that situation. Why should there not be more redistributions if there is an imbalance between the electorates and a redistribution is necessary? Does the Opposition support  Sir Thomas  Playford who thought that 23 years was a reasonable duration to wait for a redistribution? Does the Opposition want to wait as they did on one occasion when there was, for instance, 29,000 voters in the seat of West Sydney and about 134,000 voters in the seat of Bruce- a disparity of about 105,000 or 145 per cent? I ask those opposite to get up and say where they stand on these kinds of electoral injustices? The opposition argues that there is not much difference between 10 per cent and 20 per cent. Well, that means a lot of members opposite cannot count. I think if their salaries were reduced by 10 per cent and then 20 per cent they would recognise the difference. Variations and the disparity between electorates as members know, will be considerably reduced. 
The Opposition parties say that the Labor Party is discriminating against country seats. The Australian Labor Party is the only national country party in the nation. The Australian Labor Party holds almost as many country seats as those opposite do. The Liberal Party took 2 country seats away from the Country Party at the last elections. What is more, there are only 3 States with Country Party members. Just to add variety, the Country Party has a different name in every State. The Australian Labor Party holds the largest electorate in area in Australia, Kalgoorlie. The answer to the problem of representing country seats is not to weight the electorates for country members but to give them adequate facilities to carry out their responsibilities and to reach their electors and not by making country votes worth more than city votes. The Government holds the largest country seat in terms of enrolments, the seat of Robertson, which has a population of 79,000. This is a direct answer to those opposite who say that the Labor Party does not know the problems of the country people. 
The time worn arguments that have been trotted out by those opposite will not bear investigation. The situation is that in 1954, 1961, 1969 and 1972, the Australian Labor Party obtained more votes than were obtained by the parties of those who sit opposite. In 1954, 1961 and 1969 the Australian Labor Party was defeated, but if a system of first past the post voting had operated in 1974 it would have won 75 seats in this Parliament. This example proves how undemocratic are the present electoral boundaries. 
This Bill gives to this historic Joint Meeting of the Australian Parliament the opportunity to give expression to the democratic principle that a person 's vote is of equal value no matter where he is domiciled and whatever his class, creed or occupation. All men should be equal in making the law as before the law. Electoral laws should provide equality, not privilege. These are the basic principles of this legislation. The Bill gives expression to the democratic principles of equal rights for all people, as opposed to the manipulation of the electoral system for the benefit of political parties. Its objective is to give to the 
Australian people truly representative government and to give practical expression to the immortal words of Abraham Lincoln, which still echo down through the ages and linger in the minds of all democrats, namely: 'Government of the people, by the people, for the people'. That is what this legislation stands for. The legislation deserves the support of this great national assembly. I hope that it will be endorsed. 
May I have the indulgence of the Joint Sitting to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate commences I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the Joint Sitting to have a general debate covering this proposed law and the proposed law entitled Representation Act 1973 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest,  Mr Chairman,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 proposed laws to be discussed in this debate. 
I wondered how long the calm of this Joint Sitting could last. I wondered also how long the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  could resist the temptation to let those strange people in his electorate know that he was amongst us. Having seen his performance on the television screen, I should imagine that at the next election the seat will be a Labor certainty.  Mr Chairman,  you ruled that the honourable member for Mackellar was out of order when he submitted a motion to this Parliament. He sought to introduce into this Joint Sitting of the Parliament discussion of matters which were not included in  His Excellency  the Governor-General's proclamation. I refer the honourable member for Mackellar, if he can read it intelligently, to the proclamation. The final words are these: 
Now therefore I,  Sir John  Robert Kerr, the GovernorGeneral of Australia, do by this my Proclamation convene a joint sitting of the members of the Senate and of the House of Representatives, to commence in the House of Representatives Chamber at Parliament House, Canberra at 10.30 o'clock in the morning on 6 August 1 974, at which they may deliberate and shall vote together upon each of the said proposed laws as last proposed by the House of Representatives. 
So that that final paragraph might penetrate the intellect of the honourable member for Mackellar let me repeat it slowly:   at which they may deliberate and shall vote together upon each of the said proposed laws as last proposed by the House of Representatives. 
The honourable member, in his usual disruptive and propagandising way, decided to take advantage of the Joint Sitting of this Parliament at which we are deliberating on tremendous issues because of the frustration caused by members of that decadent chamber opposite. He sought to take advantage of the situation and to suspend Standing Orders so that he could raise a matter in contradiction of  His  Excellency's command. Could the House have imagined a Liberal breaking  His  Excellency's command? What a treacherous thing to do. What an insult to the Crown and  Her  Majesty. 
Well, with my Irish background,  Mr Chairman,  I am upset tremendously by the motion moved by the honourable member. I would not like to see a motion such as this carried against  Her  Majesty's representative in this country in the precise way it has been moved by the honourable member for Mackellar. I have no wish to hold up the business of this House, but, as everybody knows, this is a propaganda move. There is no substance in the honourable member's motion. You,  Mr Chairman,  in your wise and Solomon-like way, gave one of those rulings for which you are famous. The business of the House should not be held up. The proceedings of this Joint Sitting are, at the moment, being televised and the honourable member moved this motion so that his electors might see him. 
Another reason the honourable member has moved this motion is to try, as other speakers on that side of the House have done, from the Leader of the Opposition down, to take away from this Joint Sitting the opportunity to deliberate on the great issues before it. Therefore, I ask the House to reject the motion because it has no substance. It is contradictory of the proclamation that has been issued and of the Standing Orders. It has been moved for propaganda purposes only and all the honourable members will get out of it, no matter what happens, is to let those people who have seen him know that he is here. I hope that having had his moment of glory the honourable member for Mackellar will behave himself and let this Joint Sitting get on with its deliberations. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-Mr  Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. I have been most grossly misrepresented by the Minister. 
Motion (by  Senator Douglas  McClelland) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
I move: 
That this sitting of the Joint Sitting be continued beyond 
I I p.m. if necessary, until the business of the Joint Sitting is completed. 
It is not anticipated that the sitting will continue for a lengthy period. I have discussed the matter with the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  who is in charge of the conduct of business on the Opposition side. Certain formalities may be necessary and we want to complete them tonight. 
This motion arises out of the failure of the Government to allow the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to embark on a propaganda campaign earlier in the day. The matter of public importance on which debate was disallowed had all the contents of a censure motion against the Government, but it is significant that the Leader of the Opposition was not prepared to move a censure motion. I will tell the House why. 
I advise the right honourable member that 4 days ago members were told that a meeting of the House of Representatives would take place today, but only 47 Opposition members could stagger in here today. Others are not in their electorates; they are rambling around the world all over the place. 
-The Labor Party had to give the Opposition 10 pairs today. For the division this morning eight of our members had to leave the House because of the absence of members of the Opposition who are condemning this Government but are not prepared to come here and debate the great issues. 
Until I goaded the Leader of the Opposition, he wanted to introduce an urgency motion on which he knew there would be no division and therefore the insignificent numbers of members who followed him from the Gulf of Carpentaria to Canberra to gobble up members of the Government would not be revealed. We have given 8 live pairs to the Opposition. Two or three members of the Opposition are ill, as has been said, and several are overseas. But in the division this morning the Opposition could muster only 47 votes. Yet it claims its members are the ones who care about the economy. They know as well as I do that their motion is phony. The Leader of the Opposition now has a deathbed confession. He is writing out a motion to censure the Government. I goaded him into it. The full 47 Opposition members will stagger into this place and will show the motley collection of people who say they ought to be governing the country. 
Some members of the Opposition are not prepared to come to the Parliament. It costs money to get them here. The Leader of the Opposition, as I said, flew in from the alligator country, alerted all and sundry and told the Press and the radio people. But when he got here he found he had only 47 members behind him and he was not prepared to move a censure motion which he says he is now going to do. He will have a chance to do so in the Budget session. He will tell the House that he is now going to move a censure motion. Even at this stage I have to write out the ideas for him. He is a real bright leader. He is now scribbling out a dreadful motion to condemn the Government. We will shortly see whether the Opposition is able to muster up 48 in a crisis. 
Some members of the Opposition are not in their electorates. Some of them could not be bothered to come back here to debate the great issues that the Leader of the Opposition mentioned. They had 4 days to get here. One chap is not here because he could not come by air. He could have walked from his electorate to this place in 4 days, but he could not be bothered coming along. It is of no use for Opposition members to say they do not know why this motion is being put on. In another place those obstructionist old gentlemen on the opposite side of the chamber have stopped Bills being passed. 
It is a most important matter for which this House has been called together today. It deals with trade practices, national roads and roads grants. The Bills affect the lives and welfare of countless millions of Australians. In addition they deal with many practices that were mentioned today concerning inflation and all that goes with it. It is vital that this Parliament discuss them. In another place that obstructionist Opposition which has thrown overboard every semblance of decency and democracy is forcing the Australian people to suffer unless we put this legislation through today. Even  Senator Steele  Hall- the only Liberal in the Senate- said that it is 'bloody minded obstruction'. He said in the Senate that the Opposition is endeavouring to make it unworkable and whatever might be wrong with the economy today he put it at the doorsteps of those who support the Opposition in another place and members of the Opposition know the reason for this. As  Senator Steele  Hall said: 'Australia would not function if the Senate Opposition had its way'. That is why there is trouble in the economy today. He went on to say: 'This blind antagonism to anything that is government will never be the basis for a new lease of life for liberalism. ' He went on to criticise the Opposition in regard to its activities in the Senate. 
Yet today we have called this Parliament together to discuss legislation dealing with contracts, arrangements and understandings in restraint of trade, monopolisation, exclusive dealings, resale price maintenance and all these kinds of things. The Leader of the Opposition, who has fallen for his own propaganda, wants to grandstand on issues which he knows have nothing to do with the debates today. We gave him his opportunity to move his censure motion. We gave him his opportunity to do all these things. 
His proposition is a phoney one because many of his members have not turned up for the sitting. 
The Labor Party has won 2 successive elections. The people have endorsed our policies. The ALP has been resisted on every occasion by those who sit opposite and by the obstructionist people in the other place. I can understand the rumblings of discontent from the other side of the Parliament. Honourable members opposite have never accepted that they are not the government. They are a government in exile and will be for a long long time to come. They have never accepted that fact. They are trying to run the Government from another place and from that side of the chamber. They would not get a new idea if the Labor Party did not have regular elections so that they could pick up some of the ideas which we put forward. I have got the Leader of the Opposition writing out a censure motion of the Government because he could not think of it himself. 
Everybody knows that the Opposition is a complete rabble, is worn out and is disunited. In another place it is comprised of a lot of doddering old supporters who are holding up democracy and progress. In this place, as I look at some of the temporary occupants of seats opposite, I think it would be a good idea to have an election, whenever it might be held, in order that they might disappear into the limbo of the forgotten. Let the public never forget that on this day, when it is vital that Australia have certain legislation passed, only 47 members of the Opposition were prepared to come to Canberra to debate it. One or two are ill, but a lot of them who could have been here could not be bothered coming back from their world trips or jaunts or wherever they might be. That proves how phoney the proposition and everything associated with it are. 
That the motion be agreed to. 
In my view both the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  ought to be members of Actors Equity. We have heard the same old record, the same old arguments and the same old tactics. The leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Country Party came to this Parliament this morning and put forward a motion which had all the semblance of a censure motion. But it was framed as an urgency motion on which there would not have been a vote, no doubt. They even sought an agreement on how many speakers there would be. The reason for that is that 14 members of the Opposition, including 4 shadow Ministers, are away. 
Members of the Opposition never had a thought about a censure motion until they were goaded into it earlier by me. Even then you cannot please the Leader of the Opposition. He gave notice that he would move this motion on the next day of sitting. He now says that he wants to move it today. Why does he not make up his mind? Did he want to move the motion today? Why could he not follow Standing Orders? He is trying to make the best of a bad job. As he always does, he fumbled the opportunity earlier in the day. He now comes forward with this second rate proposition seeking to air, he says, all the things that are wrong in the community. If we debated the Bills, which he said would go through in a few minutes, we would find that they have far reaching effects on the matters he has mentioned. The Bills are of tremendous importance. 
Why should we take the Opposition seriously when 14 of its members will not come to Canberra to fulfil their responsibilities? They are rambling around the world, in Asia and in other places, and will not front up. Why should we put up with a censure motion today when members opposite would be shown up as not having the numbers? Why, we even loaned them one of our members a while ago and they were still a mile behind. What a joke Opposition members make of a censure motion. They know they do not have the numbers here and they do not care what is happening. They are more inclined to go holidaying than anything else. It costs money to get this Parliament together, but it was called together today because the trade practices and roads legislation have far reaching effects. The Country Party growls about our bringing its members back here in order to debate roads legislation which allocates countless millions of dollars for people throughout the country areas and other districts. 
The Leader of the Opposition fumbled his chance earlier. As I said he would not get a bright idea unless we told him one now and again. He is staving off discussion on the Bills we are to have before us today. The Opposition in another place has altered the Trade Practices legislation in such a way as to deny the people the benefits of it. But the Government in the Senate obtained an absolute majority in the vote on that legislation. There were so many loopholes in the previous legislation that the Leader of the Opposition knew that those whom we sought to bring within the confines of our legislation would escape if it were not passed. He is making this last ditch stand under the guise of great national issues to stave off imminent defeat like the defeat he suffered at the Joint Sitting of the Parliament a few days ago. The Leader of the Opposition believes his own propaganda. When you start to believe what you write yourself, you are nearly around the bend. He thinks that all the things he is saying are right. He never wanted the Trade Practices legislation and he resents the fact that the Senate has passed it. He is trying to delay it in every way possible. He will try to keep up these tactics all day because he does not want to debate the issues contained in the Bills that have been returned to the House of Representatives. The Government will make him debate the Bills today. If four of his shadow Ministers will not return to Canberra for this parliamentary sitting, why should we worry? When he was making his speech on this motion, his Whip was talking to a colleague. The Leader of the Opposition had to tell his Whip to sit down and listen to his words of wisdom. If his own Whip will not listen to him, why should anybody else? 
We are told that it is a long standing principle that a motion of censure should always be debated immediately. We did not want to disappoint the Leader of the Opposition. He wanted to have it debated on the next day of sitting. Why should we disappoint him? But I point out that that is not always the practice. The Government lays down when these motions will be dealt with. This motion will be dealt with at the time at which the Leader of the Opposition gave notice for it to be brought on, that is, the next day of sitting. We are not going to let him stave off the debate today and his moment of decision and destiny, when he sees the legislation that he does not want passed- the Trade Practices legislationpassed through this Parliament. We will bring him to book today. No matter what tactics he employs today, he will not put off the Government in bringing forward the debate on these Bills. 
I suppose nothing has a more far-reaching effect on the community than the issues we are bringing forward today. They relate to the protection of all consumers in the country and cover things such as advertising, manufacturing processes, the quality and quantity of goods and in a dozen and one ways will give protection to the people of this country- protection so sadly denied because of the obstruction in another place. Let me ask members of the Australian Country Party: Do you not want to discuss national highways today? Do you not want to discuss the expenditure of $ 1 , 1 26m over the next 3 years? Do you not want to make provision for financial assistance for the States for road construction and maintenance, transport planning and research? I ask them to stand up and be counted. Do they not think that such matters are important? I point out to honourable members that in another place members of the Opposition stopped the passage of this legislation. Do members of the Country Party not want to construct rural arterial roads, developmental roads, rural local roads, urban arterial roads and beef roads? Do members of the Country Party not think that they are important? Why should the 
Government put off the debate on such important matters for a phoney proposition such as that moved by the Leader of the Opposition when he never thought of it today until we suggested that his motion contained all the ingredients for the moving of a motion of censure? He was not game to move such a motion today because of the lack of numbers on the Opposition side. It is no good the Leader of the Opposition telling us that he had a second idea. He never gets a first idea, let alone a second one. So it is never any good for him to say that he was going to move such a motion today. If he thinks he is going to do this all day, he is in for a terrible shock in that respect also. 
I ask the Leader of the Australian Country Party: Do you not want to discuss legislation to improve road safety, legislation which benefits the city and country dwellers and which will pay particular attention to primary industry? We have seen the Leader of the Australian Country Party rising in the Parliament today trying to defer consideration of these matters and talking as if he is the protector of people in the country. No wonder a former Prime Minister said that he lost the election because of the Country Party. But I take a bit of the blame off the Leader of the Country Party because the Liberal Party could have lost the election on its own without him. The situation is that these matters will be discussed in the Parliament today. Do Opposition members mean to say that they do not want to discuss trade practices, the manipulation of prices and the exploitation of consumers? Do they mean to say that these things are not important at this very moment? Why should the Government fall for the trick that the Leader of the Opposition has put forward today? 
I direct my remarks again to the Leader of the Opposition. As I say, he is up to his old stalling tricks again.  His  philosophy is: Put it off as long as you can; put it off even in the event of a Joint Sitting; put off legislation endorsed by the Australian people. When he knows that he is beaten, try to stall, to put things off and go to court and appeal against decisions. He was stalling right up to the last available minute in regard to the 6 Bills passed at the Joint Sitting recently. Today we have seen the same old tactics and the same old approach by the Leader of the Opposition. I repeat that if the Leader of the Opposition was going to move a censure motion, which everybody knows that he was not, do Opposition members mean to say that four of his shadow Ministers would have been away from the Parliament? They would not have been absent from the sitting of the Parliament if they took the position seriously. Also thirteen or fourteen of the Opposition members would have not been absent if that were the case.  Mr Speaker,  you know as well as I that the Leader of the Opposition never even thought of moving such a motion. He just wrote out a censure motion, was not game to move it, and thought he would back out because of the lack of numbers. I say that if it does come on today, of which I am extremely doubtful, all pairs are off and the public can see the lack of support the Leader of the Opposition has for any motion he puts up, with his members rambling around the world everywhere. The Leader of the Opposition is on an obstructive mission. Like his Senate colleagues, he likes to stop everything. That is precisely what he is doing and is going to do as long as he possibly can. We do not fall for that proposition, nor for the phoney arguments of the Country Party, the great defenders of the rural people. They do not want money for roads; millions of dollars they do not want. They want to hold it up for every possible moment. Those who sit opposite and cry about the poor people and exploitation and the economy, today do not want us to discuss trade practices; they just want to put up their phoney propositions of censure on the Government. 
The worst feature of this is that the Opposition came here this morning and was not prepared to move a motion of censure of the Government. If that is the case, do honourable members opposite mean to say they are going to try to stop this being debated all day by the obstructionist tactics they are going on with? The situation is, and you well know it opposite, and so does the Leader of the Opposition, that you did not have the courage today to move a censure motion on this Government because you knew it is supported by only two-thirds of your members. 
The honourable member says nonsense. He is lucky to be talking to his Leader. They have met only since they came back and the Opposition met. So what would he know about what the Leader, of the Opposition is thinking? I suggest to the people of Australia today that this Parliament has been called together for one purpose, to discuss trade practices, national roads and all that goes with them. I suggest to members opposite, if they are fair dinkum in their approach to problems, that it is nearly time they got their members to attend. They have had plenty of notice. To come forward with phoney censure motions after this Government has had to intimidate you also into taking action, and then want to move it when you gave notice of it for another day, you really do not know where you are going at any stage. The situation therefore is that we object to this motion. We shall not support it and it will be opposed when the vote is taken. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Sneddon's)  be agreed to. 
I move: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
To answer a question of such scope, fully and accurately, would take an inordinate amount of time and effort because: 
Such information is not on record and is not readily available; 
All Australian Government Departments would have to be consulted; 
It would be necessary to establish whether each property is serviced by a bush fire brigade or an urban fire brigade. For example, in New South Wales alone, approximately 4,000 Australian Government properties are dispersed throughout the State and are serviced by numerous urban brigades and 2,485 bush lire brigades scattered throughout151 municipalities; 
This problem is rendered more difficult by the fact that: 
practices in this regard vary from State to State; and 
the boundaries of the areas of responsibility of the different types of fire brigades do not necessarily follow any established demarcation line such as local government boundaries. 
If the Leader of the Opposition would care to indicate the reason for the question I shall study the matter further to ascertain whether the inordinate amount of time and effort involved is warranted or, alternatively, to investigate whether there is some other way of assisting him in this matter. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. This is a target figure. The extent to which the objective can be achieved will depend on the resources which it will be possible to allocate to it. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Requests are received by my Department from time to time from officers seeking parking facilities near the offices in which they work. However the number of requests received by all departments is not known. It has been the practice generally to provide parking facilities at Australian Government office buildings where possible for Government vehicles and essential visitors vehicles. Where space is available provision is made for parking officers private vehicles. (3), (4), (5) and (6) My Department is examining in consultation with appropriate departments the whole question of parking facilities associated with Government office accommodation including facilities for disabled employees and officers of the Public Service. This will be a continuing examination and I shall be considering its results as they come to hand. No good purpose would be served by producing an overall report. I should emphasise that the most sympathetic consideration will continue to be given to any requests for special parking facilities by disabled officers and employees. 
As you have given the honourable member for Mackellar many opportunities to apologise,  Mr Speaker,  it is not much good asking him to do it now. So I formally move: 
That the honourable member for Mackellar be suspended from the service of the House. 
Question put- 
That the honourable member for Mackellar be suspended from the service of the House. 
I wish to inform the House that I accept the notice of motion given on 23 August by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  as a censure motion for the purposes of standing order 1 10. 1 take it that the notice of motion will now be called on. 

 - Mr Speaker, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has moved for the suspension of the Standing Orders to discuss a matter of public importance.  His  motion has been seconded by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  This is one of the time consuming measures that are put up by the Opposition in an endeavour to evade the rulings of the Chair. I am unmoved by the crocodile tears or the indignation of those honourable members opposite who have spoken in this debate. It was mentioned by the honourable member for Wannon that the Opposition wanted the first opportunity to discuss this matter before it is discussed at a court of inquiry. The honourable member for Gippsland repeated that statement. The House met yesterday and an urgency motion was moved. 
If this matter is of such importance, why was it not moved for discussion yesterday? 
I will tell honourable members opposite why they did not seek to have it discussed yesterday. Because bushrangers like the Leader of the Country Party stood over the Liberal Party of Australia. 
I withdraw the statement, but I say that the Ned Kellys of the Australian Country Party stood over members of the Liberal Party and put this matter into a secondary position. Today they are crying about not having the opportunity to move such an urgency motion yesterday. Have honourable members ever heard such rot? Today the Opposition has come before this chamber with a censure motion that was made a joke of by the person who moved it- the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  He did not have a note, he did not have an idea and he has held up the business of this Parliament all day. 
Honourable members opposite know that when a censure motion is moved all other business stands aside. Yet under the phoney pretence today of the urgency of this matter, which was brought in for sheer political purposes, they have sought all day to take up the time of the House. 
Do they not realise that when the Leader of the Opposition said that they did not win the last election, it meant that they in fact lost it? If they do not know that it is time they found out. The Government is in charge of this Parliament- not the hillbillies of the Country Party, the deadbeat from Wannon or the collection that makes up the fantastic amount of energy and effort that comprises the Opposition in this Parliament. The situation is that the Opposition moved an urgency motion in this chamber yesterday, yet it could not keep a quorum in the chamber. Its own supporters would not listnen to the Country Party's motion. Yet today it has told us that this matter is important. (Honourable members interjecting)- 

 - Mr Speaker, what I did - 
I am opposed to the suspension of the Standing Orders and I have stuck to the motion. This motion could have been moved yesterday by honourable members opposite. 
I can well understand why honourable members opposite do not want to listen to my words of knowledge and wisdom; it is because they know that they hurt them where it hurts most. I say to the honourable member for Wannon that he had the opportunity yesterday to move such a motion, but the Opposition moved an urgency motion which it could not get a quorum to support. If this matter is so important, why did the honourable member for Gippsland and the honourable member for Wannon not move such a motion yesterday? We all know that it is a political stunt. It is not enough to come into this chamber and say that this matter should be debated today. I think there are some members of a legal mind in this Parliament who think that probably the whole matter is sub judice. For the honourable member for Wannon now to move for the suspension of Standing Orders in an endeavour to defeat the decision of the House not to proceed with this business today indicates that it is just a phoney proposition. If the Liberal Party allows the Country Party to stand over it and it puts on the wrong urgency motions on the wrong day that is not the fault of the Government; that is entirely a matter of their internal politics. They ought to get their priorities right. Either the Country Party motion yesterday was more important than this one or this one is the more important. 
The honourable member on his temporary visit to this Parliament should remain quiet from time to time or he will not last as long here as he wants to. The Opposition has put up the phoney proposition that today is the first opportunity to discuss this matter. I say to the honourable member for Wannon that that is a deliberate untruth. The Opposition had the opportunity yesterday to move for the discussion of this matter, so why today should the honourable member for Wannon say that this is the first time? 
I withdraw it,  Mr Speaker. 
I shall summarise why we will not support this motion. Yesterday the opportunity was given to the Opposition to move a motion if it was important. It was not taken advantage of. Today it has been brought in after we have discussed a censure motion, which the Opposition knows takes precedence as the business of government must continue. We all know that the purpose of moving for the suspension of Standing Orders today is to make a speech on a matter that was prevented from being discussed in the interests of the Parliament and to get around that decision by debating it here today. That has been proved in this debate,  Mr Speaker,  because you have constantly had to call honourable members opposite to order when they have wanted to debate details of the matter which the House decided would not be discussed but that the next business would be called on. 
I and other honourable members on this side of the House are completely unmoved by these phoney attempts by the Liberal and Country Parties to circumvent decisions of this Parliament by trying to put over a case which they have been prevented from putting. I point out to the members of the Opposition that the previous Government applied standing order 399 against the then Opposition. Deliberate attempts are made to move frivolous motions of this nature to hold up the business of the Parliament. If this continues, in the interests of good government it may be necessary for us to adopt for once the infamous policies of those who now sit opposite. Far be it from me to do so, but if the Opposition continues on the course it is following it will leave the Government no alternative. No self respecting government can tolerate the delaying of the business of Parliament by frivolous motions moved for political purposes, in an endeavour to hold up the business of this Government in this Parliament where we legislate for the welfare of all people. 
The motion deserves to be defeated. It should never have been moved. Honourable members opposite who spoke on it ought to remember that the reason why there is a limitation of time on speaking to a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders is that honourable members are expected to speak to the motion. I will bet that the honourable member for Wannon or the honourable member for New England  (Mr 
Sinclair) do not realise that when I sit down in about 30 seconds the motion will be automatically put. Only about 25 minutes are allowed for these debates. Very few members of the Opposition know a standing order and do not even know how to break them properly, but they try to get around the Standing Orders they do not know under the guise of putting up a great public stand. The Government would support this motion if it were worthwhile doing so, but we have no intention of doing it today. Consequently, I ask that the motion be rejected. 
MrSPEAKER-Order! 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Malcolm Fraser's)  be agreed to. 

That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent five Wool Tax Bills- 
being presented and read a first time together and one motion being moved without delay and one question being put in regard to, respectively, the second readings, the committee's report stage, and the third readings, of all the Bills together, and 
b ) the consideration of the Bills in one committee of the whole. 
I explain to the House that this is a procedural motion only. Its purpose is to permit the introduction of and subsequent dealing with the S Bills as one question instead of a series of the same type of procedure. There is no intention to go beyond the stage of the second reading speech today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
WOOL TAX BILLS (Nos 1 to 5) 1974 
Bills presented by  Mr Crean,  and together read a first time. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister in answer to Question No. 97 on page 625 of Hansard dated 24 July 1974. 
Department of the Northern Territory: Appointment of Women  (Question No. 109) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) As at June 1974 departments occupied 1.75 million square metres of office accommodation overall. 
This figure is under continuous review but is currently used as a basis for predicting overall needs. 
Yes, I am responsible. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The Committee is no longer operating and any reports that were prepared by it were used for inter- &gt; nal planning purposes. I do not propose to release them.  Since coming to office the Government has faced an enormous task in providing adequate accommodation for Australian Government purposes (including suitable accommodation for members of the Australian Parliament) and also in correcting the imbalance which developed during the period of office of the former Government, between the amount of office accommodation which it owns and which it leases in privately owned buildings. 
Although it will take some time to achieve these objectives my department is pursuing them actively. 
Buildings Owned by Australian Government (Question No. 234) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The information sought is not readily available and I am not prepared to authorise the time and expense which would be involved in compiling such information. However if the right honourable member would indicate his interest in any particular buildings I shall be happy to provide him with the information he requires. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister in answer to Question No. 329 on pages 626-627 of Hansard dated 24 July 1974. 
Department of the Northern Territory: Financial Training of Officers  (Question No. 358) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has sold the area of land in Merrys Lane, West Launceston to the State of Tasmania for amalgamation with other land held by the State to enable the proper planned development of an aged persons home complex. 
It is true that the Government proposes to announce shortly that a redistribution of electorates will take place and that there will also be proposals for the introduction of optional preferential voting. It is also true to say that the Leader of the Country Party has criticised these proposals in a most unjustified way. Dealing with redistribution of boundaries, the last redistribution took place in 1968. Another one should have followed the census of 1 97 1 , but the Liberal - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is provided by way of the following table which details Sub-divisional enrolments as at 26 July 1974 for each Victorian electoral Division. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is provided in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is contained in the following table.  (Note that enrolments for the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory are included for comparative purposes although there was no redistribution in 1968 in either case.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is contained in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the statements made by me on the adjournment of the House relating to his accusations in relation to the abovementioned matters, vide Hansard; 
Hansard 24 July 1 974, page 62 1 ; 
Hansard 25 July 1974, pages 725 to 727; 
Hansard 1 August 1974, pages 1026 to 1028. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet: Research and Development Staff  (Question No. 860) 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate on this Bill and the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Collection Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) Yes. The Department of Services and Property is conducting a survey of all land held by the Australian Government including Statutory Authorities. 
The purpose of the survey is the preparation of the computerized consolidated record of all land owned or leased by the Australian Government. 
No such record has been prepared previously. When it is complete it will facilitate a general review, which the Government has also initiated, of landholdings to ensure that the lands to put to their best use consistent with the Government 's objectives. 
and (S) This initiative has been taken by me. No formal report will be made of the results of the survey which is a vast undertaking. However the collated information will be available to the Government and the Parliament and information will be more readily available on land in which members of the public are interested. Decisions taken or conclusions reached relating to changed landuse will be announced as and when appropriate. 
Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices: Import Price (Question No. 666) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is presented in the following tables: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No grants to any organisation or individual to undertake research have been provided by my Department or the Australian Electoral Office. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is: 
1 ) No Australian Government land has been allocated to the Western Region Commission in Melbourne. 
Apart from land sold for road-widening purposes, the only area sold to local government organisations since November 1972 in the Western Region of Melbourne is as follows: July 1974-6,166 sq. metres (1 acre 2 roods 3.8 perches) in Mason Street, Newport, to the City of Williamstown for $4,800. 
The land was sold on a concessional basis of 50 per cent of the valuation on the condition that the land was only to be used for public recreational purposes and that if ever the land was no longer required for this purpose, it was to be sold back to the Australian Government at the same price. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
In May 1974 the Australian Electoral Office engaged the services of a management consultancy firm for the following two projects: 
To advise the Chief Australian Electoral Officer on ways and means of improving polling booth procedures and facilities at elections/referendums in order to ensure a quicker turn-round of voters. 
To review Senate election procedures and suggest ways to speed up the filling of vacancies. 
W. D. Scott and Company Pty Ltd was engaged on both these projects. 
$8,000. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Wool Tax Bills (Nos 1 to 5) and the Wool Industry Bill, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 7 Bills to be discussed in the debate. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Julius Dam Agreement Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
that this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908-1974, authorises the publication of the Report of the Auditor-General for the year 1973-74 and, 
that the paper be printed. 
I might explain to the House that this is a formality necessary to protect the Auditor-General because some matters in the report may be actionable. This is the protection that is normally given to the Auditor-General. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I present a statement on the 'Distribution of States into Electoral Divisions and Appointment of Distribution Commissioners '. 
I have some reservations about the National Capital Development Commission's attitude on the new and permanent Parliament House because the Commission has changed its mind so consistently in the past that I am at a bit of a loss to know what its policy might be now. I have always been a Capital Hill man because the faith to which I belong always believes that a hill is the best place for real estate. I think Red Hill in Canberra is the only Hill in Australia which is without one of my churches. I contend that the new and permanent Parliament House should be built in a place where it can be seen by all and where it would have the dignity that should be associated with a building of this kind. 
On one occasion the NCDC told the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, of which I was a member, that the building of a ring road aroundCapital Hill would not affect the building of a new and permanent Parliament House. If my memory serves me correctly, it then said that the new and permanent Parliament House could not be built on top of Capital Hill because a ring road was constructed around it. The committee proposed by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is probably necessary. But I think that we want to know the composition of the Committee. We should be told who will be on it, what will be its functions and how many members of the committee will come from this House and how many from the other House. We also should be told whether the committee will be controlled by the NCDC in regard to the general construction of the building that is to be erected. I do not think that this is a question on which a decision can be easily made. It is most important that we should know the composition of the committee. I think that we should have more information before the House decides to support the formation of it. 
I shall be very brief in my remarks. Honourable members have spoken, not at length, of the need for this fertiliser subsidy. The introduction of this Bill by the Government proves that it supports that point of view. No one has mentioned that it is not exactly a small amount that is involved in respect of this matter. The subsidy cost $13,573,101 in 1973-74 and is expected to cost another $ 13m in 1974-75. In view of the fact that the expenditure figures are no doubt of interest to honourable members, I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the official returns to the Parliament of the payments made during the period 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1974 under the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Act 1966-1973. It shows in detail the payments which have been made. It may be of interest to honourable members. 
Very briefly, I wish to be associated with the sentiments that have been expressed from both sides of the House. My first association with or memory of the late  Sir Eric  Harrison goes back to 1931 or 1932, long before I entered politics, when he was a notable member of the United Australia Party, as I think it was then. My first recollection of him was at street meetings in Spring Street, Bondi Junction, with him on one side of the road and Eddie Ward on the other. I think the highest compliment I can pay him is to say that he ranked with Eddie Ward as probably one of the great street orators, in particular, of our time. Of course, he gave better than he got. There was also great rivalry in this Parliament between them. In every way he was a redoubtable opponent both in the Parliament and on the public platform outside. 
He was the first Leader of the House and it may please honourable members opposite to know that I have adopted many of his tactics. As the Leader of the Opposition said, these tactics were received by the Opposition with acclaim because of the justice that was associated with his administration. I always remember that one of his common expressions when Leader of the House was: 'I will trade a horse', and the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  knows that I do that quite often. In addition Eric Harrison did not appreciate it when Reggie Pollard used to stick his pipe in the inkwell as divisions were called in this Parliament. I do not smoke but I am told that this practice does a dreadful thing to one's pipe. Eric Harrison always took umbrage at this practice when divisions were called and he and Reggie crossed to the other side of the House. 
Later on Eric Harrison became Australian High Commissioner in London and I, with other members of this Parliament enjoyed his hospitality and talks. In every way he was a grand representative of this country abroad and he set an exceedingly high standard there as he did in the Parliament. As other honourable members have said, he was a tough political compaigner who gave better than he took. But one could never take exception to his conduct afterwards and the manner in which he put his case forward. I can remember too that he was one of the billiard companions of the late Billy Hughes. He was a regular billiard companion mainly because I think he let Billy Hughes win as Billy did not like to be defeated. I think that the late Eric Harrison was a very charitable sportsman in that respect. But it was a common occurrence to see them trading punches, as it were, in the old billiard room. 
I just very seriously pay my tribute to a distinguished foundation member of the Liberal Party for his work in this Parliament, for his work abroad and his general service to Australia. With his passing a link with the past, from the depression days to this great age, has gone. In every way it is a sentimental moment for this Parliament to record the passing of one who served this Parliament and his Party generally with such distinction at home and abroad. I place on record my appreciation of the friendship we enjoyed and the association I had with him. I extend to his wife and family my deepest sympathy. 
I have heard of the publication which was launched in a spectacular fashion by the former Prime Minister, the right honorable member for Lowe. I understand that the allegations that the honourable member mentioned are contained, or are said to be contained, in the book, which I have not had the opportunity of reading. I do not know whether there is substance in them, but it is true that the Liberal Party at the last election obtained up to $2m to $3m from unknown sources in an endeavour to defeat the democratically elected Government. The mystery of those finances is something of great concern. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
These amendments to the Bill were proposed in the Senate by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  on behalf of the Government. The effect of the first 2 amendments is to remove from the Bill clause 12 (lines 30 to 36) and paragraph (b) of clause 13 (line 39) which gave to authorised officers power to examine persons on oath or affirmation and imposed a penalty for failing or refusing to be sworn or to make an affirmation. The Government proposed these amendments because it considers it to be improper and unnecessary for legislation to give powers of this kind to officers unless there are special circumstances making this necessary. 
Clause 1 1 of the Bill gives authorised officers powers to require answers to questions and to require documents etc., to be produced. These powers are considered to be so adequate for the administrative tax collection purposes of this Bill as to render unnecessary the additional power to examine on oath or affirmation. The third amendment, clause 14 (line 3), is a drafting amendment which seeks to make it clear that a false or misleading statement made to an officer includes a statement made in answer to a question from an officer. I commend the amendments. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Commonwealth Banks Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on the 2 measures at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 964 on the 1 973 Notice Paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, Page 1714) in which he drew attention to thee impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which departments are engaged with other departments. My department keeps me properly informed of all important developments- this is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my Ministry. 
Department of Transport: Inter-departmental Committees  (Question No. 299) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It would be misleading for me to give an answer to the right honourable gentleman's question without giving some additional information which would put the answer to the right honourable gentleman's question in its proper perspective. I am pleased therefore to provide full details of charter flights- 
1 July to 2 December 1972 when the Liberal/Country Party Government was in power. 
1 July 1971 to 30 June 1972. 
I January 1973 to 30 June 1974 after the Labor Government had instituted a proper system of control. 
) A summary of the information is as follows: 
From 1 July to 2 December 1972 the then Minister for the Interior, the Honourable R. J. D. Hunt, M.P., approved a total of 137 charter flights. 
Of these: 
136 charter flights were for Members of the then Liberal/Country Party Government at a cost of $28,425.68 and 
1 charter flight was for a Member of the then Opposition at a cost of$85.00 
During thefinancial year 1971-72 the then Minister for the Interior, theHonourable R. J. D. Hunt, M.P., approved a total of 19charter flights. 
Of these: 
190 charter flights were for Members of the then Liberal /Country Party Government at a cost of $51,630.59 and 
1 charter flight was for a Member of the then Opposition at a cost of $ 1 50.00. 
During the period 1 January 1973 to 30 June 1974, as Minister for Services and Property, I approved a total of 97 Charter flights. 
Of these: 
26 charter flights were for Members of the Govern ment at a total cost of $7,235. 14 and 
71 charter flight were for Members of the Opposition at a cost of $8,644.69 
Refusals. During the period 1 January 1973 to 30 June 1974I refused: 
2 requests for charter flights from Members of the Government and 
6 requests for charter flights from Members of the Opposition. 
I submit a schedule showing details of the flights which were approved during the relevant periods. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Five (S) officers of my Department are engaged in work that could be described as 'Research and Development' as this expression is normally used. A number of officers in my Department and the Australian Electoral Office who are engaged in positions designated as 'Research Officers' have not been included in this reply. 
Australian Survey Office. 
and (S) Research is undertaken into the use of photogrammetric plotters and computers for the adjustment of XYZ co-ordinates in the production of digital terrain models and also into the use of computers and plotting systems to produce a completed map or plan. This work is under the direction of an Assistant Surveyor-General. 
The annual expenditure on salaries of the officers involved in this type of duties would amount to $60,000. Other expenditure on research and development work is minimal. 
This is a continuance of the serial on minerals and energy that was commenced by the Opposition some months ago. As a matter of fact, this is the eighth occasion on which this matter has been discussed in this Parliament. Since the last Parliament was elected the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has taken over the leadership for the Opposition on these questions, having deposed the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  It is interesteing to note that the cast has changed slightly occasionally and that today the punter from Kooyong has come into the field on this important issue. The honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  is one of the slight changes in the cast, but since the last election the Leader of the Country Party has assumed full command to destroy Australia's interests in and ownership of minerals and fuel in this country simply because every Country Party member in this Parliament had his campaign expenses paid at the last election by interests who today write the speeches in this Parliament of the Leader of the Australian Country Party. 
The Leader of the Country Party said that the Government has no minerals and energy policy. The honourable member for Kooyong, speaking for the Liberal Party, also said we have no policy on this matter. Their former leader,  Mr Gorton,  was reported in yesterday's 'Age'- a reputable newspaper- as follows: 
Gorton says Connor's policy is right. 
Do not forget that the Country Party said that he was an ideal leader when he was Prime Minister. It did not have much to choose from, but it said that he was the best. This is what was stated yesterday: 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has received unexpected support for his minerals policy from the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton. 
Do honourable members opposite still say that the former Prime Minister does not know what he is talking about? The report went on: 

 Mr Gorton endorsed  Mr Connor's  stand on the export of minerals saying: 'He  (Mr Connor)  is perfectly correct in what he is doing.' 
Where does the honourable member for Kooyong stand in the united party opposite on this issue? 

 Mr Gorton, speaking on a television program, said it was not true to say that Australia was leaving its minerals in the ground. 
He said: ' Our iron ore has been exported far more this year than last year. Copper, lead, zinc, anything that you mention in the name of minerals, has gone up. 
It's been sold for more money than it has before- so I just don't understand this claim that he is keeping minerals underground, unless it refers to uranium. ' 
This is the statement of the former leader of this country, a former Liberal Prime Minister. Do those honourable members opposite who spoke on this matter today disown him? Do they disown his statements? If so, let them have the guts to get up and say so. They know one thing that the former Prime Minister was: He was Australian. He believed in Australia's assets and was prepared to fight for them. Even today he is listed in this Parliament and other places as having abstained on Liberal policy motions designed to sell out Australia's mineral interests. Honourable members opposite said that the Government wants to nationalise the mining industry. A lot of companies going broke under private enterprise leadership are dying to be nationalised today. Those who control them do not mind a bit of socialist money when they send their companies broke. If the Government takes over a company when it is a going concern, it is supposed to be nationalisation, but when one is going broke its begs for socialisation. 
Where does the Country Party stand on this matter? The attitude of the Country Party is to provide drought relief for 6 months and flood relief for the next 6 months as long as the people elect it to power. It does not care as long as it is maintained in government. Today we have had the usual story put forward by the Leader of the Country Party and in unmistakable terms the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  answered him in a way that has received the endorsement of the former Liberal Prime Minister of this country. Honourable members opposite are speaking on hearsay and have no evidence. 
Of course the Minister is offending some companies. He is offending those that seek to take over Australia 's mineral resources. He has offended, for instance, those people who go to make up that huge consortium, the Australian Mining Industry Council, which is 65 per cent foreign owned. It is offended because it would like to take our assets and resources at give-away prices, and the Country Party and Liberal Party are determined to give them away if those parties ever get into government again. 
The Leader of the Country Party has spoken on matters of this kind on 8 occasions in the last 12 months or so. He is the mouthpiece in this Parliament of foreign mining corporations.  His  speeches are written by the Australian Mining Industry Council, which I said is 65 per cent foreign owned and controlled. There was a fight between members of the Liberal and Country Parties over who could have the privilege of representing the foreign rnining interests in Australia. The owner of Leilani, the honourable member for Kooyong, made a fast run on the rails, and he has nearly taken over from the Country Party today. When the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  was Prime Minister he tried to get the mining companies on side when John McEwen left the Parliament. But the Leader of the Country Party offered these foreign companies the best deal of the two and he has become the permanent subservient lackey in this Parliament for the foreign mining interests. He is prepared to produce a speech at the drop of a hat in return for the money put in at the last election campaign by those foreign interests in an endeavour to defeat the Government party in this country. 
He is available at a minutes notice to move any motion or to raise any matter that they propose. This is exemplified by the fact that this is the second matter of public importance proposed for discussion in the last couple of weeks. It looks to me as though he is on a retainer from the foreign interests to represent them in this Parliament. I suppose that it could be said now that his retainer is financial support. Do not forget that I have a letter here, sent out by the Country Party, seeking from mining interests all over the country donations of from $100 to $5,000 or more to be provided so long as Country Party members serve and speak to sell out the interests of Australia in this Parliament. Let there be no doubt that when the Leader of the Country Party speaks in this Parliament he speaks because he must speak in return for the money that was contributed to his Party to try to return it to power. Every Country Party member, I am told, in the last election in Queensland got $25,000 cash from foreign mining interests in order to finance his campaign. 
The Liberal Party and the Country Party become hysterical when their members are told that we want them to reveal the sources of their funds. Among those sources will be listed numbers of these huge consortia. These funds come from the foreign mining interests. Everybody knows from the correspondence that I have- it has been said in this Parliament- that nobody would be so consistently wanting to sell Australia's assets, as the Leader of the Country Party does, if there were not some return in that action for him and his Party. Who will ever forget the proposal that he made to increase the profits of Esso-BHP to above $960m? He did not give a hang for the country people. He wanted to increase the price of crude oil and, at the same time, give to Esso-BHP greater monetary returns. The Leader of the Country Party is on record in the 'Canberra Times' of 23 March as defending the profits of the oil companies. He said: 
As far as Esso-BHP profits are concerned, of course they are high. This group took big risks and spent big money and is entitled to substantial profits. 
The reason why the Leader of the Country Party presents in serial form in this Parliament these speeches, weeping and crying, and getting different Liberals in each time to make it look fair dinkum is that those who sit opposite, as we know, are the spokesmen for the things which are anti-Australian and which are opposed to Australia's interests in the fields of minerals, fuel and energy. 
The honourable member for Kooyong who spoke a moment ago was a Minister in a government which was in office for 23 years. We never heard a babble from him at any stage on these matters. A couple of months in the wilderness, and he is now going to reform the world. He criticises the policy which has the endorsement of the former leader who first picked him for the Ministry and made him a member of it. It was his own policy. I would like the honourable member for Kooyong to tell me today whether the policy announced by the Minister for Minerals and Energy is not one which had the endorsement of the right honourable member for Higgins who led the Liberal Party before and which, if he were in govermnment today, would be implemented now by those who sit opposite us and who oppose that policy now. I say to the people of this country that once again they have seen the spectacle of the Country Party, supported by the Liberal Party, speaking for foreign interests, in return for the funds that they were given. The honourable member for Kooyong and others are singing for their supper because they seek an election in the not far distant future. They must sell Australia's assets in order to try to get the funds necessary to carry on. 
I hope that the time of the Parliament will not be wasted on this matter any longer; it has gone on too long. I am sick and tired of the same old stories and the same old misrepresentations. However, I am delighted to see the Minister for Minerals and Energy consistently throwing completely out of the ring those who put up these false stories which are not in the interests of Australia but which are in the interests of the foreign companies that are here to destroy this Government and to seek to take Australian assets at a give away price, but this Government is determined they will not do that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  was not at his best tonight. No doubt his remarks were prompted by the remarkable changes in Liberal policy which were announced last weekend. I notice from a report in the 'Sun' of 14 October that the Liberal Party has decided that God's name is now to be dropped from its policy. This is probably because  Mr Snedden  is leading the Party. The article said that God has been deleted from the new Liberal Party policy platform. He was mentioned in a preamble to the Party's former platform, which stated: 
The Liberal Party of Australia presents this platform as a program for a people whose highest ideals are inspired by belief in God. 
The Press article stated: 
A senior Liberal Party spokesman said yesterday that deletion of the preamble did not necessarily mean that Liberal Party members no longer believed in God. 
What has happened to the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  who said he prayed to God each night for success? No doubt the results of the last election determined that God should be dropped from the Liberal Party platform. Let us examine other proposed changes in that platform. The Liberal Party is looking for a new anthem. According to a Press report the Liberal Party said that 'God Save the Queen' should be used only for regal and vice-regal occasions and that another anthem should be promoted for other times. I wonder what the honourable member of Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  thinks of this matter. He made an inspiring address on an adjournment debate or during a discussion on a matter of public importance arguing for the retention of 'God Save the Queen'. This was after a census throughout Australia showed that the people wanted their own national anthem. Is it any wonder with the Liberal Party turning away from God and the Queen that the honourable member for Moreton should be moved to say what he said tonight? I noticed in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of yesterday's date that an article in respect of the Liberal Party conference last weekend stated: 
The council finally laid to rest the ghost of  Mr Gorton's  'sensualism'. 
My heavens, what could we expect from a government comprised of honourable members opposite? I also have a letter dated 1 1 September 1974 addressed to a person living in Stanmore from the Western Metropolitan Region of the Liberal Party of Australia New South Wales Division. It reads: 
Dear  Sir, 
Re: The Survival of the Liberal Party 
The Industrial, Business and Professional Communities are facing mounting financial problems and possible collapse- so is the Liberal Party. 
Frankly, the stark position of the Liberal Party is that it must raise $5,000 within the Western Metropolitan Region in conjunction with similar fund raising efforts through N.S.W. or collapse. 
We have been given just ten weeks to raise this amount. 
Will you help with an immediate donation? 
Fancy asking anybody to make a donation to help the Liberal Party. The letter continues: 
Cheques should be made payable to the Liberal Party, Metropolitan Region, and forwarded to the  Hon.  Treasurer,  Mr Frank  Gumbley. Either complete the enclosed Bankers Order and return it to us, or let us have your commitment for an annual donation so that we can plan our future campaigns in an orderly and efficient manner to the best political effect, knowing in advance the amounts available to us for these purposes. A business-reply envelope is enclosed for your convenience. 
The honourable member for Kooyong interjects. He spends all his money backing Leilani. He does not have money for Party funds so wants to make it from punting. I give him the good oil. Leilani has more chance of winning the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups than his Party has of winning the next Federal election. Why should the honourable member for Moreton not be worried? I also have an application form that is to accompany donations to the Liberal Party. Is it any wonder that tonight the honourable member for Moreton plucked figures out of the air? He referred to 160,000 or 170,000 unemployed. A lawyer should not do these things; he should be factual. I advise the honourable member for Moreton to stick to the small debts court because it is much more simple. If he gets into the big time he will realise it takes brains to succeed. Whilst I may increase his small debts customers tonight, he will do better from them than he will do in the wider field. Tonight he used extravagant statements about the Government's misdoings, but whatever those opposite say, we have won 2 elections in 18 months and they were lucky to win 2 elections in 6 years. This Government stands endorsed on 2 occasions by the people of Australia as the only people fit to govern this nation. Irrespective of what might be said by those opposite we have given to the people of Australia firm and sound government. How can any self-respecting person support a party that gives away God and gives away the national anthem? My godfather, members opposite are supposed to be loyalists. They claim also to have laid the ghost of sensualism. It is frightening to think that they might ever be in office. 
Having said so much, perhaps I should conclude by saying that fortunately for the people of Australia the only Party fit to govern Australia is in government. Its policies are sound and just. Irrespective of what might be said by those opposite it cannot be denied that in 23 months we have done more than they did in 23 years. I know that hurts, but it is the truth and I accordingly record it for the people of Australia to know. 
Debate interrupted. 
May I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the Committee to consider the items of proposed expenditure in the order and groupings shown in the schedule as follows: 
Parliament. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and Department of the Special Minister of State (together). 
Department of the Treasury, and Advance to the Treasurer (together). 
Attorney-General's Department, and Department of Customs and Excise (together). 
Department of Aboriginal Affairs, and Department of the Capital Territory (together). 
Department of Transport. 
Department of Agriculture. 
Department of Minerals and Energy. 
Department of Overseas Trade, and Department of Manufacturing Industry (together). 
Department of Education. 
Department of the Environment and Conservation, and Department of Tourism and Recreation (together). 
Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Department of Health, Department of Repatriation and Compensation, and Department of Social Security (together). 
Department of Housing and Construction, and Department of Services and Property (together). 
Department of Labor and Immigration. 
Department of Northern Development, and Department of the Northern Territory (together). 
Department of Science, and Department of the Media (together). 
Postmaster-General 's Department. 
Department of Defence. 
Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
Consideration of the items in groups of departments has met the convenience of the Committee in past years. I also take the opportunity to indicate to the House that the proposed order for consideration of department estimates has been discussed with the Opposition which has raised no objection to what has been proposed. The decision is not rigid but is a broad outline of what will be done. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is pointed out for the information of the right honourable member that under Section 1 14 of the Australian Constitution the Australian Government is exempt from any form of municipal rating charges. Therefore, in strict legal terms, the local government authorities have not foregone anything as they are not legally entitled to anything. However successive Australian Governments have, over the years, agreed to pay, as an act of grace, the equivalent of municipal rates on housing erected or purchased by the Government solely for domestic purposes, on other property where an element for rates is recovered in rents charged to tenants and on Defence Service Homes. Payments are also made for any services rendered by a rating authority such as the supply of water, sewerage, electricity or collection of garbage. Australian Government instrumentalities engaged in commercial enterprise in competition with private organisations, and which either own property or lease property from the Government, pay to the local authority the equivalent of rates assessed on the property. 
The circumstances in which payments are made by the Australian Government in lieu of rates and whether these circumstances should be extended can only be considered in the overall context of financial relationships between the Australian Government, the State Governments and local government authorities. In that regard, the Australian Government is very much aware of the financial problems being faced by local government authorities. The Government is giving close attention in developing and implementing its policies, to how best achieve its objectives of having the role of local government become a fuller and more effective one and making available to local government resources adequate for its functions. 
The Grants Commission Act 1973 incorporates a major new initiative by the Australian Government designed to assist local government. The Act authorises the Grants Commission to inquire into applications for assistance by regional organisations of local government as approved for this purpose by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. The Commission's inquiries are being directed towards recommending special assistance for those authorities or regions which are financially disadvantaged compared with other authorities or regions- because, for example, of relatively low rating capacity or special additional expenditure requirements not shared by local government generally. The right, honourable member will be aware that the Government recently announced that it had accepted a recommendation by the Grants Commission that grants of $56,345,000 be paid to local government in 1974-75. 
A precise figure such as that sought by the right honourable member is not readily available. To obtain it would be a major task involving much time and effort and this does not seem to be warranted. In the absence of sufficient justification to do so, I am not prepared to divert resources for such a task. 
Papua New Guinea: Proposed Purari Hydro-electric Scheme (Question No. 691) 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Papua New Guinea Loans Guarantee Bill 1974 as they are related matters. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I think the honourable member for Barton will agree that the last election made unprecedented demands on the staff of the Australian Electoral Office. First, there was an election for the Senate and in some cases the number of candidates was a record. In addition to that there were 4 referendum questions and an election for the House of Representatives. That, unprecedented event imposed demands on the staff to which they responded remarkably well, I think. But it was inevitable that certain arrangements had to be made to meet this situation and one of them was that the Government called in a firm of consultants. In co-operation with the Chief Electoral Officer,  Mr Ley,  certain arrangements were made for additional booths and in the circumstances I think they worked reasonably well. I am not unmindful of the fact that the Electoral Office has been a neglected office after a long period in office of those who sit opposite, and probably other governments for that matter. The Electoral Office has in effect been looked upon as the Cinderella department when in fact it ranks in a democracy as possibly the most important because the highest degree of integrity is required of its staff. The Office renders to parliament &gt; people services for which it gets little crt many people. 
I have endeavoured to remedy this situation and I have supported increases in remuneration for all sections of the Australian Electoral Office. The Government is in the course of building up not only the remuneration of the staff but also improving the facilities available, the staffing of the office and all that goes with it. Recently W. D. Scott and Co., a firm of consultants, was commissioned to investigate and bring back a speedy report on all facilities and conditions associated with the Electoral Office. It has visited all parts of Australia and asked for submissions from the leaders of all political parties in this Parliament. I am hopeful that individual members of the Parliament and the Opposition parties generally will co-operate with the company. I think that we will not only improve the status and efficiency of the organisation but also in every other respect there will be an improvement all round of benefit to the public and members of the Parliament. I am hopeful of that co-operation being given. I am also hopeful that out of this will come a more efficient system, more happy staffing arrangements and in every way an uplifting of the status and efficiency generally of the Australian Electoral Office. 
I think that the suggestion of the honourable member for Macarthur would meet with the general support and approval of this Parliament. It is true to say that it is some time since there was a review of procedures. Of course one factor to be considered is that Parliament still functions under almost the same conditions as it did when the membership of the House was about 75 members. The membership has almost doubled and the procedures have become somewhat complicated. I would like to advise the honourable member, though, that a major review of the procedures of the House was undertaken in the early 1960s and that this culminated in extended alterations of the Standing Orders effective as from 1963. 
A joint committee has recently been established to inquire into, report and make recommendations for a balanced system of committees for the Parliament and its integration into the procedures of the Parliament. I might suggest that that committee could well give consideration to the factors that the honourable member has mentioned. I think that the proposal that the committee should take the suggestions outlined in the honourable member's question within the scope of its activities is one which would be worthy of consideration. If his suggestions were submitted to that committee I have no doubt that in the course of deciding how the committee system should work, the question of the proceedings of this Parliament must inevitably be covered. I therefore naturally support the suggestion of an inquiry. I would suggest to the honourable member that he might take into consideration what I have suggested and refer this matter to the committee during the course of its deliberations. That action may bring about the desired results. 
Exception has been taken that the amendment moved by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is not in conformity with an addendum or addition to the motion moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  The deathbed confessions on this issue of the honourable member for Mackellar and his colleagues on the other side of the House are surprising. You always follow the procedures followed by your illustrious predecessors,  Mr Speaker.  I well recollect that on one occasion the Opposition moved in effect a motion of no confidence or a motion of censure on the then Prime Minister and the then  Speaker  allowed the motion to be turned around and it ended up as a vote of no confidence in the then Leader of the Opposition. Taking those precedents which have been established into account, this amendment follows completely along the lines laid down in the Standing Orders in relation to all debates, that is, that it is in conformity with the usual procedures of the House. 
To what does the Opposition object in relation to your ruling,  Mr Speaker?  Does it condone the neglect of the real needs of social service pensioners? Does it condone all of these matters? The honourable member for Mackellar, in trying to take a rise out of the Government, has found that he has had a rise taken out of him. Today he wanted to stand up in this chamber as the saviour of those unfortunate people, but when he was in a position to do something about that section of the community he did nothing. Today he has sought to sheet all the blame of 23 years of neglect onto this side of the Parliament and, because we have condemned his actions, he has objected to an amendment that seeks to place on record his record and at the same time give effect to his motion. 
I have just pointed out that your ruling is one which I think is sound,  Mr Speaker.  If you study this amendment carefully- I will read is for the benefit of the House- you will see that it states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'this House condemns the neglect of the real needs of social service pensioners and beneficiaries over 2 decades up to December 1972 - 
Does the honourable member for Mackellar say that the people mentioned in this respect- the husbands, wives and others- are not pensioners so that they are not covered by that section of it -  and commends the many initiatives taken by the Australian Government since then to rectify the defects and injustices within the social services benefits system caused by that earlier long term neglect. 
Surely he does not mean that that does not exclude widowers and deserted husbands with dependent children. They are all social service recipients. Therefore the amendment clearly relates to the motion that has been moved by the honourable member. The amendment continues: 
The House also commends the undertaking of the Australian Government to continue improving the system of social service benefits and particularly its concern about the needs of widowers and deserted husbands with dependents. 
Has that no relevance to the motion that the honourable member has moved? It is: 
That, in the opinion of this House, some provision should be made for assistance to widowers and deserted husbands with dependent children. 
This dissent motion has been moved,  Mr Speaker,  not because your ruling is wrong, but because the amendment has sheeted home completely the blame for any neglect in respect of these matters right where it belongs, and that is to the person who moved the motion. 
If honourable members opposite play the game the hard way and try, by a motion of this kind, to take a rise out of a Government that has done wonders in the field of social services they cannot object when we move an amendment which says that we have in mind these questions and which at the same time puts on record their neglect. I say no more. The motion moved by the honourable member for Mackellar is a clever way for the Opposition to try to dodge its responsibilities, but we have sheeted home the responsibility for any shortcomings. Accordingly I believe that the ruling is in order. 
After listening to the last speech I am almost stuck for words. I thank honourable members for their complimentary remarks to me regarding some of the facilities I have been able to provide. I thank the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who expressed similar thoughts the other day. As honourable members opposite have said, I was a long time in Opposition but I still believe there is a tremendous amount to be done in providing facilities for members. I am not unmindful that the public believes that every facility a businessman enjoys is available to members of Parliament. As honourable members know, this belief is wrong, but in some chastening way I would suggest that in many respects we have only ourselves to blame. Whenever it is necessary that something be done some honourable members oppose it for political advantage and some say they do not want it. In every way we write ourselves down and we suffer accordingly. When it was suggested that apartments should be provided for members who have to live in Canberra there was a great outcry in the Press which completely misrepresented the situation. There have been Press articles concerning taxation benefits in respect of facilities and travelling allowances available to members. Those who wrote the articles should be called to book. Some of those people who wrote leading articles in the Press recently might well be called before the Parliament for misrepresenting the facilities that are available to members. 
The debate today has been most informative both in respect of the methods of running the Parliament and the provision of facilities. I do not intend to answer all the questions that were raised but I will see that they are recorded and studied to determine whether out of today's deliberations we cannot get something to improve the running of the Parliament and the facilities available. Facilities for members have been bad for a long time. Today members have asked about the provision of additional secretaries, more accommodation and matters of that nature. I do not say this in any political sense, but for the time being and almost indefinitely my hands are tied in respect of those matters. The salaries tribunal report that was tabled in this Parliament covered not only the question of salaries and electoral allowances but also matters such as research officers, additional staff and other items. However that tribunal's report has been disallowed. 
I feel certain that immediately anything is done in regard to that report some member somewhere will take advantage and say that the report is being subverted. One member in another place already has indicated that the present stamp allowance should not be paid and that he may, in due course, challenge it himself in many respects. Consequently to intrude on anything contained in that report now leaves the Government very vulnerable. Much as I regret it, I must say that until the Opposition publicly announces its intentions on these matters no change -can be made to them simply because we may well be, as a government accused of subverting the report. Therefore the question of additional staff, additional research officers and additional stamp allowances and things of that nature may well be in the limbo of things forgotten for a indefinite period. Members of the Opposition may well have considered these matters when the Tribunal's report was before the Parliament. 
I have always supported increases in parliamentary salaries. I have always supported increases in facilities. I also accept the fact, after 30 years here, that it is never the time to do anything for parliamentarians but always the time to do things for other people. I mention those matters not in any threatening way but to show the problem that we face. Also I mention the fact that a ceiling has been placed on the growth of the Public Service. The only suggestion that I can make at this stage in regard to facilities would be that we may extend somewhat that excellent section that provides secretarial assistance to members. I repeat- my friend the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  mentioned this- that those secretaries are available in country districts and other places. They are not tied to members who are in city electorates. If members opposite feel that they need additional assistance they should apply to that pool. We will see that they get extra assistance where possible and possibly we may be able to extend it. I mention those matters for the benefit of members. This will be investigated again but honourable members can see the problem that we face on this side of the Parliament particularly when a challenge already has been made to me in writing that allowances which were made available should not be made available even at this stage. Personally I see no reason why members should pay for any of their stamps. Not one businessman in Australia ever meets all his own postage costs. I think that parliamentary salaries and the facilities for members should be such to allow a member of Parliament, like every other section of society, a take home pay free of the necessity to spend his own money on resources and things of that nature. 
Other matters were raised in regard to the running of the Parliament. That is a question on which we have fairly common ground. One of the facts of life is that with the legislative program and the demands made at these times it is well nigh impossible to give all the time that is necessary for debate. We may have to get round to what the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said today in an excellent speech, and as the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  and other honourable members have mentioned. We may have to have some form of committee system to allow participation in debate at greater length in this Parliament after inquiry at the Committee stage. Being of cheerful disposition and of reasonable temperament and a friendly kind of fellow, one of the most upsetting experiences for me in this Parliament is when I have to curtail debate. I feel as though I am cutting off my right hand when I do that. So, if it pains honourable members opposite they should remember that my pain is greater than theirs. Liking to talk myself, I can appreciate what happens on that side of the fence. 
I say to my friend the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  that I would not worry about the effects of the redistribution in Hume because the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has already said he is not going to accept it any old way. I say to the honourable member: 'If you get the best of the worst seats in Australia you have no chance of getting it because your Party will not take it'. Consequently the honourable member's problems are not great in that respect. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  mentioned questions on notice and things of that nature. I might have been in a different Parliament from him but I remember some lengthy delays and some lengthy replies to questions. On one occasion 2 of our members had questions on the notice paper for two full 
Parliaments. I think the time of the second Parliament expired before the questions were answered. I think the honourable member would have been on much better ground had he not had such a sorry record with his Ministry. It probably was not so much that the questions were not answered but the answers were really awful. Consequently not only were they delayed but also they were unacceptable when we received them. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  said that a businessman in a second rate fish shop would not run this Parliament like it is being run. I am pretty pleased we do not have the businessmen from Cambridge Credit, Leyland or Mainline runnning the Parliament otherwise we might all be out of work in a very short time. To say that businessmen run everything perfectly is hardly applicable to the Parliament. 
I thank honourable members for what has been said in a very constructive debate. Some politics were introduced, which is inevitable. On the question of facilities I will keep in mind what has been done and in every way try to meet the wishes of honourable members. I still agree that a considerable expansion can be made in regard to staff, travel facilities and things of that nature. Those demands are not unreasonable. I appreciate that honourable members in country districts are entitled to additional secretarial assistance. 1 was in agreement with the Tribunal's report which would have given members certain opportunities for travelling allowances in respect of their activities. 
I am not unmindful of the huge areas of the electorates of Kalgoorlie and the Northern Territory and other electorates in far western Queensland. Members from those areas have demands made on them which must impose great strain not only on their physical capacity but also on their monetary capacity. I assure them, having in mind that I might go back to Opposition some day, that I will adopt the views of the honourable member for Griffith. Even if it is very late in the piece and I look like going into Opposition, honourable members can expect that week a considerable improvement all round in members' facilities. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Proposed expenditure, $88,85 1,000. 
Department of the Special Minister of State 
Proposed expenditure, $66,296,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my reply to Senate question nos 56 and 57 asked by  Senator Withers  and which appeared in the Senate Hansard of 15 August 1974 on page nos 1040-1044 (No. 56) and 1044-1053 (No. 57). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) The annual cost of leasing office space in Sydney as at 27 September 1974 and the area involved was: 
to (5) The information requested by the honourable member is tabled regularly in an abridged form in both Houses of this Parliament in accordance with Section 7 (3) of the Lands Acquisition Act. I do not propose to provde further details for a number of reasons, particularly that to do so would be an unwarranted intrusion into the private affairs of individual lessors; nor would it be in the interests of the Australian Government in negotiating further leases. 
More importantly, however, the information is not readily available and would require an inordinate amount of time and effort to provide the information sought by the honourable member. This situation arises because of the neglect of previous Governments where adequate information concerning Australian Government owned or leased premises was never collated. I announced recently that my Department had initiated a programme designed to produce a computer record of all Australian Government owned and leased property. This is a mammoth task. Nevertheless I am hopeful that the record will be completed within the next six months when it will be maintained up to date and detailed information will be readily available to the Government. 
Compared with the information given in answer to sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) of the question, the relevant figures as at 30 June 1972 are as follows: 
As might be expected there are no adequate statistics available to provide a break-up between central business district and suburbs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Following is a schedule of areas leased by the Australian Government and costs of leasing at 27 September 1974: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information which has been collated for the Honourable Member is too lengthy and complex to be published in Hansard. Copies are available at the Table Office of the House of Representatives. 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States (Question No. 48) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 41 which appeared in Hansard 3 October 1974, pages 2233-2239. 
Department of the Media: Research Grants (Question No. 77) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) John Richard Lennard; (ii) 48 years; (iii) Bachelor of Arts, University of Tasmania. 
No. Applications were invited from within and without the Australian Public Service and the Interviewing Committee recommended that the appointee was the most suitably qualified person for the subject vacancy. 
Yes. 
No. 
Yes.  'Australian Post Office News'  (Question No. 1118) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) The answers for these questions are contained in the following lists. 
The facilities provided to Fire Brigades by the Post Office are as follows: 
Fire brigades receive a 8 1 W per cent reduction in the rental charges for any line and other apparatus connecting Fire Brigades to exchanges for telephone purposes. There is also a special rate of $1 per annum per 1.6 kilometres for telephone lines used for fire alarm purposes (lines from a street fire alarm point to a fire brigade station, from a fire brigade station to an officer's residence or from an exchange to a station) charged on the aggregate total length of the lines rented, the special rate of $1 per annum represents a reduction of 97 W per cent on the usual rates. 
The cost of providing these concessions is shared equally by the Departments of the Postmaster-General and Services - and Property. 

 - Mr Speaker, before I answer the question I seek the indulgence of the House for a few moments to thank you, members from both sides of the Parliament, members of various staffs and officials for the condolences sent to me in respect of my recent unfortunate accident. I extend my thanks particularly to the honourable member for Moreton who, one night very late when I was struggling against the effects of a sleeping drug, endeavoured to include me in the recent National Compensation Bill which was before the House.  His  consoling and cultured voice sent me off much quicker than the sleeping drug. I thank him for his good wishes. 
In answer to the honourable member for Port Adelaide let me say that it is true that the Queensland Premier survives on 19 per cent of the votes of the guided democracy known as Queensland. I understand that on the last occasion both the Liberal Party and the Labor Party got more votes than the Country Party but obtained less seats. The Labor Party, with more votes than any of the other parties, got less seats than the other parties combined. I know that great democrat who leads Queensland hopes that his 1 9 per cent of the vote will continue. Undoubtedly he is quite confident of success because even a most unskilled politician ought to be able to win if he requires only 19 per cent of the votes. Any person who administers a system which allows a person to survive as Premier of a State on that basis undoubtedly would want a continuation of that state of affairs as well as another election. I am quite confident that the Queensland people have awakened to the fact that they are governed by a minority and will flock overwhelmingly to the cause of Labor. I can assure them that under the democratic proposals of the present Whitlam Government such a state of affairs will never happen in the Federal arena where people will have to get the majority of the votes to get the results that are necessary in any democracy, and that is democratic majority rule. 
As the honourable member has stated, a redistribution is under consideration in all States except Western Australia. In accordance with the Act any individual, Party or organisation is permitted to make submissions to the Electoral Commissioners in respect of what they think the changes should be or whether there should be any changes at all. I understand that the time for submissions closed about a fortnight ago and comments are now invited on them. Any person is quite free to make any kind of submission, which will be considered. 
The honourable member has given an analysis, he said, of the submission by the Australian Labor Party. I do not accept his analysis because I know it to be completely inaccurate and false in every way and consequently ultimately without basis. I know that the Liberal Party made a submission that would give it 26 or 27 seats in New South Wales, two or three of them at the expense of its coalition partner, including the seat of the honourable member for Hume. I have looked at the proposal. In the Liberal Party's endeavour to bring in a gerrymander it went quite outside the scope of the Commonwealth Electoral Act and endeavoured to divide New South Wales into regions to suit the Liberal Party's point of view. Anybody who knows the Commonwealth Electoral Act knows that under the Commonwealth Electoral Act the Commissioners do not go by regions; they must divide the State into 45 divisions. The Labor Party's policy, endorsed by a Joint Sitting of this Parliament, supports the principle of one vote one value and the submissions made by the Australian Labor Party are on that basis. 
The fact that the Liberal members opposite and members of the Liberal Party seek to falsify the submissions does not do them any credit. Comments are invited on these matters and they will not doubt be made public in due course. But I have enough confidence in the integrity of the Commissioners to know that they will decide justly and properly in accordance with the high standard of their responsibilities and without being influenced even by infamous suggestions made by the Liberal Party. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To supply polling booth statistics relating to percentage of first preference votes to formal votes recorded, in each of the categories specified, would require more than thirty thousand calculations, a task which is beyond the current resources of the Australian Electoral Office. 
However, I will supply the honourable member with copies of Election Form 62 for each House of Representatives division, relating to the 18 May 1974 election. These Forms set out the number of votes polled by each candidate at each polling booth, together with number of absentee and postal votes polled by each candidate for the Division as a whole. 
Socialistic Organisations Established and Disbanded by the Liberal/Country Party Government  (Question No. 849) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The names and qualifications of each of the Distribution Commissioners appointed in September 1974 are as follows: 
I thank the honourable member for asking this question because it is on a matter of importance to all members of the Parliament. At the outset I say that a document setting out a possible pattern of sitting days, which was issued on 28 August 1974, showed sittings of the House until the end of November. It is clear now that the legislative program decided upon cannot be completed in the remaining 9 days of this sitting as set out in that document. I therefore propose that the House should meet for another week after the end of November and on Mondays, 25 November and 2 December. In the last week the House will meet on Monday, 2 December, and go through until the program is completed sitting on Friday 6 December if necessary. Such a pattern, set out in what I will indicate to honourable members now, will allow a maximum of 1 5 sitting days from now until 6 December. 
The the House will meet on 12, 13 and 14; 19, 20 and 21; 25, 26, 27 and 28 November, and on 2, 3, 4, 5 and possibly 6 December. I should like to mention to honourable members that this program has been designed for the benefit, I hope, of all honourable members because if our program is to be completed and if honourable members are to have time in their electorates before Christmas, the 2 four-day sitting weeks must occur. There are approximately 80 Bills still to be debated, and I hope to be able to give the honourable member for New England, who arranges the business of the House on the Opposition side, details of those Bills in the near future. I hope that the arrangements that I have outlined will meet with the approval of all honourable members as they are designed to meet the convenience not only of Parliament but also of individual members. The arrangements will allow honourable members maximum time in their electorates and full debate in this Parliament on the various issues, as well as give the Senate time to debate the issues after this House has terminated its business. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  referred to an answer which I gave to a question asked by him yesterday. The fact of the matter is that the honourable member has now produced some statistics and he has not said where he got them. For all I know he could have got them from out of his head. The honourable member has taken statistics that suit his own point of view and has then endeavoured to prove his case. Any person who assesses electoral results and applies them to one election only is on very weak ground. If one went back to two or three elections before the one the honourable member is talking about totally different results would be given. 
That is correct, but the results can be totally different if they are taken, say, from the 1966 election. 
I am making it on the basis that I have been misrepresented. The point I am making is that the honourable member has misrepresented my answer in that he has taken only one set of statistics. If he goes back over other elections and averages the figures he will find that a totally different result is given. In this respect I point out that the statements made by the honourable member in this House yesterday are completely without foundation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to introduce several reforms of a fundamental nature to the Commonwealth Electoral Act and also to make a number of fairly minor amendments of a procedural nature. It also proposes consequential amendments of the Senate Elections Act 1903-1948, the Senate Elections Act 1966 and the Representation Act 1903-1973. Taken overall, these various proposals are intended to allow for, firstly, a speedier finalisation of federal election results; secondly, improved voting facilities for electors; thirdly, the introduction of some new or changed procedures; and, fourthly, the correction of some obvious defects in the existing electoral law. Australians can be justly proud of their electoral machinery. We have not suffered the electoral malpractices common in many other countries. However, Australian governments in the past have tended to become unduly complacent and sometimes have shirked the difficulties involved in any attempt to remedy defects in our electoral practices. This Bill amounts to one of the most comprehensive attempts ever made in this direction. The Bill is therefore far more substantial than that allowed to lapse in 1971 by the coalition government. 
In this second reading speech, I will be paying particular attention to those provisions which the Government regards as being of major importance. Though reference will also be made to some of the less substantial amendments, such references, of necessity, will be brief. I shall therefore now summarise the matters dealt with in the Bill as a guide to the wide-ranging scope of the proposed amendments. These include: optional preferential marking of ballot-paper; printing of party affiliations of candidates on ballot-papers; registration of political parties for purposes of identification and printing of affiliations on ballot-papers; introduction of mobile polling booths at hospitals and similar institutions; drawing for positions of candidates on House of Representatives ballot-papers; closing of the polls at 6 p.m. rather than 8 p.m.; requiring a candidate changing his name within 12 months prior to nominations to declare the change, and providing for the former name to be included on the ballotpaper; prevention of persons enrolling or nominating for election under changed names in certain circumstances; an earlier deadline for the return of postal votes and for the return of postal votes direct to respective returning officers; restricting postal vote application forms to be used at an election or referendum to those specified by notice in the Gazette; prohibiting the listing of names of persons who apply for postal votes, except in certain specified circumstances; providing postal voting facilities for prisoners who have retained their franchise entitlements; increasing the amount of deposit required with nomination and varying the conditions under which deposits may be saved; preservation of the voting entitlement of Australian citizens posted overseas in the service of the Crown, and retention on the roll of the name of an elector temporarily absent from his address; precluding nomination for election to the Australian Parliament of a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory; prevention of a person from nominating as a candidate for more than one Federal election held on the same day; protection of candidates against the issue of misleading how-to-vote cards; change in qualifications for enrolment, voting and candidature from 'British subject' to 'status of a British subject'; eliminating the need to state the address of author in the case of broadcasting or telecasting of political matters; the manner of announcing the name of an author of political matter on radio or television; responsibility for publication of matter or comment of a political nature in the Press between issue of the writ and the close of the poll; removal of the restriction on exhibition of electoral posters within a hall or room being used for political party meetings; provision of support staff for Distribution Commissioners; authority for alterations to the roll when a street is renamed or renumbered; lowering the permissible age of presiding officers or assisting presiding officers to 18 years; appointment of substitute assistant returning officer at places outside Australia in certain circumstances; increases in penalties for failure to enrol; the provision of fines as an alternative to imprisonment where relevant; amounts of monetary penalties to match imprisonment terms; amendment of questions to be put to voters by presiding officers; conversion of distances to metric measurements; use of 'given names' in lieu of 'Christian names'; candidates making gifts, donations, etc., prior to an election; retitling of the Act. 
Several of the more significant proposals contained in this Bill are intended, either in whole or in part, to enable the final result of a Federal election to be known more speedily than has been possible hitherto. One such proposal relates to the introduction of optional preferential marking of ballot-papers, which will result in a speedier count for Senate elections in particular. However, this intended modification to the existing exhaustive preferential voting system is also aimed at allowing electors the maximum degree of choice in exercising their democratic voting rights. 
Under the existing preferential system, each voter, irrespective of his individual wishes in the matter, is compelled to rank in order of preference all the candidates on the ballot paper, whether this requires the marking of only 2 squares or, as was the case in the most recent Senate election in New South Wales, not less than 73. This often means that an elector, in order to record a valid vote, is compelled to express a preference for candidates whom he may not know or for whom he has an extreme dislike. Faced with this meaningless, undemocratic requirement, many electors either intentionally or unintentionally disfranchise themselves by failing to correctly mark all necessary squares on the ballot paper. Furthermore, during the scrutiny process, the time needed to check the validity of Senate ballot papers in particular causes excessive delays in finalising the result. 
The existing system of preferential voting has resulted in an average informal vote of about 10 per cent at normal Senate elections. Any voting system which leads to the disfranchisement of such a large number of electors should not be tolerated. It is therefore proposed to require an elector to mark his order of preference on the ballot paper only up to the number of candidates to be elected. However, and I cannot stress this point too strongly, an elector will retain the freedom to express a preference for as many additional candidates as he pleases. Supporters of one political party who wish to exchange preferences with the supporters of another will of course still be able to do so. 
As members will appreciate, the present system involves intolerable delays in finalising the election results. To abate this situation, the Bill contains several amendments affecting postal voting, two of which merit some comment here. Firstly, it is proposed that an earlier deadline be fixed for the return of postal votes. Secondly, it is proposed that postal votes be returned direct to the relevant returning officer, by the elector or his agent, rather than through an assistant returning officer, some other returning officer or a presiding officer as allowed under the existing law. At present, a period of 10 days' grace after polling day is allowed for the receipt of postal votes by the relevant returning officer, of votes posted direct to him. This practice presents many obstacles to any attempt to speed the count, especially for Senate elections. For instance, under the proportional representation system used for the Senate, the quota for an election cannot be determined, nor can the count commence, until the exact number of formal votes cast is known. At the recent Senate election, the precise number of formal votes was unknown until over 2 weeks after polling day. Therefore, not a single senator could be elected until about 3 weeks after polling day. While the proposed introduction of optional preferential marking of ballot papers will speed up the counting process, especially for the Senate, this advantage will be largely lost if it remains necessary to wait for postal votes for up to 10 days after polling day. It is therefore proposed that postal votes be returned so as to reach the appropriate returning officer not later than the close of the poll. As far as can be ascertained, no other country allows the admission of votes returned after polling day. 
This proposed legislation also takes a significant step forward in making it easier for aged and ill persons to exercise their franchise by the introduction of mobile polling booths at hospitals, rest homes and similar institutions. This reform will, at the same time, serve to minimise the possibility of the aged and infirm being subjected to unscrupulous practices on the part of overzealous campaign workers. Current practice provides for the establishment of a polling booth at each hospital or similar institution containing SO or more beds, where suitable arrangements can be made with the appropriate authorities. However, these booths are confined to fixed locations and, in practice, serve only staff and ambulant patients. Thus, in order to vote, patients confined to bed must at present make an application for a postal vote prior to polling day. Under the proposed reform the presiding officer, by arrangement with the appropriate authority at a hospital, institution or rest home, will take the ballot box from bed to bed and ward to ward. Of course, scrutineers will still be permitted to accompany polling officials. 
This Bill also makes provision for votes to be recorded at specially designated hospitals and institutions before polling day itself. Thus, the past practice of party workers invading such institutions for the apparent purpose of assisting postal voters should be largely eliminated. As the Government is particularly anxious, as I feel all honourable members are, to prevent unscrupulous persons taking advantage of aged or infirm electors, it is also proposed to prohibit the inspection of postal vote applications for the purpose of listing of names of persons who apply for postal votes at an election, except where such listing is genuinely required in connection with an inquiry into possible malpractices. The Bill contains a further provision designed to eliminate the possibility of postal voting malpractices. Under a proposed provision, the only postal vote application forms which may be used at an election will be those specified or declared to be applicable by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. 
This proposal is designed to curb the current dubious practice of having thousands of postal vote applications completed months in advance of the next ensuing election, then forwarding these to electors at or about the time of the issue of writs, without any precise knowledge as to whether the persons concerned are, in fact, entitled to vote by post. 
Another reform contained in this Bill, which I believe will be welcomed by all electors, relates to the printing of party affiliations of candidates on ballot papers. This measure will greatly simplify the voting process for electors, especially for the recent arrivals to this country who do not know the party affiliations of many of the candidates. The Government anticipates that one of the beneficial results of the printing of such affiliations on ballot papers will be a reduction in the level of informal voting, particularly when added to the introduction of optional preferential voting. This reform will necessitate the registration of political parties and provision is made accordingly in the Bill. For the purpose of recognition as a political party under these amendments, it is proposed that a party must have candidates officially nominated for not less than one-fourth of the vacancies to be filled at the relevant election, except in the case of an election to fill a casual Senate vacancy or a by-election for the House of Representatives. In these cases, a party must have had candidates officially nominated at the immediately preceding Senate or House of Representatives election, in accordance with the formula specified. 
Another long overdue reform contained in this Bill provides for the drawing for positions of candidates on the House of Representatives ballot paper. This will remove the advantage taken by certain candidates in the past of changing their names in order to get top position on the House of Representatives ballot papers. It is also proposed that persons be prevented from enrolling or nominating under changed names in certain specified circumstances. Cases occurred recently where persons have sought enrolment as 'A' (without any christian name), 'XXX' (without any christian name) and 'White Australia'. In one case, a person successfully enrolled as 'HBerrill (Surname) Stop Asian Immigration Now' (other names) and was a candidate in that name at the recent Senate election. 
It was a she, and the only good thing about it is that she was not elected. The Senate is in enough trouble now. 
In order to avoid further incidents of this kind, it is proposed to incorporate in the Act a provision which makes it clear that the adoption of such names, even though they may be adopted by taking formal steps under State law, will not necessarily be valid for electoral purposes. Under the provisions of the Bill a person may be nominated for election only in the name under which he is enrolled or, if he is not enrolled, in the name under which he is entitled to enrol. 
I now turn to another important area awaiting reform, one which has been highlighted by the most recent elections. I refer to the amounts of deposit required to be lodged with nominations. It is proposed to increase these amounts to a level consistent with present monetary values, namely $250 for the House of Representatives and $1,000 for the Senate. Obviously, the fixing of fairly substantial deposits is required in order to keep to a reasonable level the increasing proliferation of candidates which has occurred over the past decade and which reached absurd levels in May 1974, particularly for the Senate. It is hoped that the new deposit requirements will keep this proliferation of candidates within reasonable proportions, without going so far as to deprive serious intending candidates of their legitimate democratic rights to present themselves for election to public office. 
Let me now refer to one further proposal of some significance. It is the proposal to close the polls at 6 p.m. rather than 8 p.m. The earlier closing of the poll will permit an earlier indication on polling night of the possible result of an election and it will also ease the burden a little on the thousands of poll workers without, I believe, inconveniencing the electors. It is already the practice in Queensland to close the polls at 6 p.m. In order to prevent any possible misunderstanding, I must stress that people who, because of their religious beliefs, are precluded from voting during certain hours will retain the right to apply for postal votes. 
This Bill also clarifies the circumstances under which an Australian citizen in the service of the Crown posted overseas may retain his right to vote at federal elections. Under the existing Act, a person loses his enrolment entitlement if he ceases to live in the subdivision for which he is enrolled. This Bill now proposes that where a person, who is qualified for enrolment, is living outside Australia as a result of a posting in the service of Australia, a State or other prescribed authority, he shall, if he has a fixed intention of living in a particular subdivision when he returns to Australia, be entitled to enrol on the roll for that subdivision, and will be enrolled in respect of his overseas address. 
I now refer to another aspect of the Bill which requires some clarification. At present there is doubt as to whether or not a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory could, without resigning his position on that body, also stand for a seat in the Australian Parliament. The Government believes that there should be no uncertainty in this matter. Therefore, just as it has been considered appropriate in the past for a member of a State legislature to be ineligible to stand for election to the Australian Parliament, so the Government considers that it should be made quite clear that a member of the legislature of an internal Territory is likewise ineligible to nominate. Accordingly, this Bill provides that no person who is at the date of nomination, or was at any time within 14 days prior to the date of nomination, a member of the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory, or for the Australian Capital Territory, shall be eligible for nomination to the Australian Parliament. 
Provision is also made in this Bill to prevent a person from becoming a candidate for two or more federal elections held on the same day. At the 1969 elections, a person stood as a candidate for the Senate election in South Australia, as well as for the House of Representatives in the Division of Hindmarsh. At least one cannot say he was not keen. Although no specific debarment is included in the existing law, it was surely never intended that a person should have the right to dual nomination and an appropriate provision is embodied in this Bill. 
Some concern has been expressed in the past at the possibility of a candidate assuming the name of, say, a sitting member, primarily for the purpose of gaining some political advantage at an election and thereby causing confusion in the minds of electors. This Bill therefore makes provision so that any former name of a candidate specified in the nomination paper shall be printed on the ballot-paper, in addition to the name under which the candidate is actually nominated. This will not relate to a change of name by marriage. 
Another provision in this Bill deals with gifts, donations and prizes by candidates to clubs or organisations within a specified period prior to polling day. Under the existing provisions it is an offence for a candidate to make a gift or donation to, say, a club within 3 months of polling day but he could be unwittingly in breach of the law by making a gift or donation at a time which subsequently turns out to be within 3 months of polling day. To meet this situation, it is proposed to give a candidate a defence against a prosecution if he proves that, at the time when he made the gift, donation, prize etc. he believed on reasonable grounds that the polling would not be within 3 months. 
Two proposals concerning the appointment of Distribution Commissioners merit a brief reference. Firstly, given that it has not always been possible to obtain the services of the Surveyor-General of a State or an officer having similar qualifications for the purpose of redistributing a State, it is proposed to provide that one of the Commissioners shall be a registered surveyor, which will enable greater flexibility in the selection of a surveyor. Secondly, it is proposed that provision be made for the engagement of adequate staff to assist in the work of a distribution and that the fees and allowances paid to Distribution Commissioners and other such assisting staff shall, as is the practice now, be determined by the Minister. 
It is also proposed that the provisions relating to enrolment and nomination be amended so that the wording 'status of a British subject' is substituted for the term 'British subject'. The term 'British subject' is not denned in the existing Act, being governed by the provisions of the Australian Citizenship Act. Following amendments to that Act in 1969, the term 'British subject' is obsolete for these purposes, having been replaced by the wording 'the status of a British subject'. While a section of the Australian Citizenship Act makes it clear that that Act applies to the Electoral Act, the continued use of the term 'British subject' in the Commonwealth Electoral Act would be inappropriate and potentially confusing. 
The provisions in this Bill also revise and update many of the penalties, some of which have remained unchanged since Federation. There are a number of other provisions in this Bill which are mainly procedural in nature. Taken as a whole, these measures constitute a significant updating of the Electoral Act, and will ensure that the Act becomes an even more effective instrument of electoral administration. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard 6 tables which are relevant to the proposed amendments to the Electoral Act. I might mention that I have spoken to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  about incorporating this material. The tables which I wish to have incorporated are: 
Table I- Percentage of informal votes recorded at Senate elections 1949-1974. 
Table II- Number of candidates in each State at Senate elections 1949-1974. 
Table III- Number of deposits forfeited by candidates at Senate and House of Representatives elections 1 966- 1 974. 
Table IV- Number of postal votes admitted to the scrutiny at the 1972 and 1974 House of Representatives elections. 
Table V- Summary of votes for political parties showing the votes recorded, Seats won and percentages in respect of the Senate elections held on 18 May 1974. 
Table VI- Summary of votes for political parties showing the votes recorded, seats won and percentages in respect of the House of Representatives elections held on 18 May 1974. 
The usual procedure is for a redistribution of electorates to take place after each census. A census was held in June 1971 but the previous Liberal-Country Party Government did not fulfil its obligation and refused to carry out a redistribution. At that time by so doing it deprived Western Australia of an additional seat which was granted by the Labor Party when it came to office. As a redistribution has not taken place since 1968 and the previous Government sidestepped its obligation, this Government sees no reason to follow that example and in accordance with the practice to bring in democratic voting the Government has introduced the proposals for a redistribution of electorates. For the benefit of the House I quote in support of the proposal reasons additional to those I have previously stated. At present in Australia 30 seats vary from the quota by more than 10 per cent, a further 19 by more than 20 per cent, and of the 127 seats in Australia 40 per cent are outside the quota at this time. In New South Wales, 14 seats vary from the quota by more than 10 per cent, a further six by more than 20 per cent, and 44 per cent of the seats are outside the quota. In Victoria, 6 seats vary from the quota by more than 10 per cent, a further 8 seats by more than 20 per cent and 14 of the 34 seats, or 41 per cent, are out of focus. In Queensland 6 seats vary from the quota by more than 10 per cent, a further 3 by more than 20 per cent, and SO per cent, or 9 out of 18, are outside the quota. In South Australia, 2 seats vary by more than 10 per cent, a further two by more than 20 per cent and 50 per cent, or 4 out of 8 are outside the quota. For Tasmania, where it was stated at the time of the redistribution that there were no variations, there are no figures to be quoted. 
I now quote further discrepancies and the reasons which justify a redistribution. In New South Wales, for instance, the electorate of Mitchell has 82,864 voters and Darling 47,806, a difference of 35,058 or 42 per cent. In Victoria, Diamond Valley has 87,725 voters and Wimmera 49,512, a difference of 38,213 or 43 per cent. In Queensland McPherson has 90,525 voters and Maranoa 47,493, a difference of 43,032 or 47 per cent. 
May I have the indulgence of the Housed to raise a point of procedure of this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Livestock Slaughter Levy Collection Bill 1974 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I advise the honourable member that his grave predicament is news to me. I could not work out from his question whether he was frightened of the dark or frightened because nobody was in there with him. Might I congratulate him in that respect on his bad luck. I can understand his dilemma in those circumstances. As a matter of fact, I think he might be entitled to a miraculous medal. I do not know the circumstances surrounding the unfortunate occurrence but I will personally investigate the matter to see if a repetition of such a nightmare event for the honourable member can be avoided. 
May I reply to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  The suggestion he has made is one that has occurred to the Government. At the outset let me say that I will discuss his proposal with my opposite number from the other side of the Parliament because I am inclined to agree that if we are to be kept here tomorrow because of the strike or for other reasons, it may be preferable for the Parliament to sit tomorrow and to eliminate the Monday sitting. Without being over humorous, we might in certain circumstances be able to sit through the weekend. If we are forced to remain here this weekend there will be a lot of idle politicians and I would not want to see people with such a high rate of salary doing nothing on those 2 days. But in any case I say quite seriously that I will consider what the honourable member has said. In the light of the developments in the strike, I will report to Parliament and 1 will dicuss the matter again with honourable members opposite as soon as I am in a position to do so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has moved a certain motion today and the Government, as the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  stated in his reply, gave effect to this legislation, administratively, a couple of days ago. The fact of the matter is, in blunt terms, that the Leader of the Opposition has been caught with his pants down. The apology he just made cuts no ice whatever because we are giving effect- this has already been decided by the Government- to the proposals which he outlined this morning. Now the Leader of the Opposition in this Parliament will vote against the very proposal which he enunciated in the amendment which he read to the House. That being the position,  Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="092131197411212_24_0_3_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="092131197411212_24_0_5_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="092131197411212_24_0_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="092131197411212_24_0_4_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="092131197411212_24_0_2_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question. 
I completely dismiss the last speech which was made only to stonewall and to prevent me replying to the allegations made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in his usual manner and in a speech which has been repeated again and again. I could not help thinking how right the  President  of the Liberal Party was when he said in Victoria that there are some veterans in the Liberal Party who have outworn their usefulness here. He must have been listening to the honourable member for Mackellar. The honourable member has 3 phobias- Labor, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Communist Party, in that order. Now he has added ex-Senator Gair. It was not always that way. Were not ex-Senator Gair and the honourable member the darlings together in the anti-communist cause? Remember how the honourable member would stand and praise the former senator? Now. suddenly he has deserted his friend, the former senator, who has been elevated to a high and distinguished office which we thought the Liberals would appreciate. But this is the changing pattern of the honourable member for Mackellar. 
I have been left with only about 7 minutes in which to reply to the dirt, filth and lies that they have heaped on this Ministry. I will reply in pretty quick time. We will see what can be done in that time. Let me tell honourable members opposite that the Ministers of this Government are truthful and factual. They believe in open government. They put it into practice. They report directly and frequently to the Parliament. Here I have an index to the papers presented to the Parliament in the 1974 session of the 29th Parliament. The document covers 52 pages and sets out the names of reports and factual presentations of Government business by Ministers of this Government. 
Printed in another document which I now show to the House, set out on 32 pages, are the actions and achievements of the first 12 months of the Whitlam Government. The Opposition refused the Prime Minister last year the right to incorporate that statement in Hansard. Included in that document are some of the greatest achievements, most forthright statements and demonstration of open government ever initiated or made in this country. Why have honourable members opposite tried to destroy the Prime Minister? They know that he is a statesman. They are afraid of him. They know also that he is forthright, capable and lucid. He has achievment and performance. They know that they have no one to match him in truthfulness, integrity or standing with the people of this country. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is acknowledged at home and abroad by industry and supporters of the Government as brilliant, capable, honest and outstanding. Members of the Opposition know that his presentation of papers is outstanding in the Parliament. These allegations of lies were misrepresentations by the Opposition, as the honourable member for Blaxland said. They were half truths, smear and innuendo under the privilege of Parliament, trying to break down men who with great integrity are leading this Government. 
I could run right through the Ministry. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has given outstanding and truthful statements to this Parliament. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  also has given knowledge and understanding that the Opposition never realised was possible. The Opposition tried to destroy the integrity of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  He completely answered the charge and is now acclaimed at home and abroad not only as a most outstanding man in his capacity as Minister but also as truthful, honest and forthright in presenting to the people the things that really matter. 
I would need an hour to state the situation. Take the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  an outstanding orator with great knowledge of industrial relations, forthright with unions and employers, who in every way gives an inspiring example of what should be done by Ministers of integrity and honesty. I have not time to read an Australian Country Party survey conducted by W. D. Scott and Company. It is a survey of how Country Party voters and potential Country Party voters view the Party and national issues. Somebody who was interviewed in Dalby in Queensland said that Whitlam overshadows all the rest and that he had grown in the public's estimation. That was said by a Country Party supporter. However, my time is limited and I now wish formally to move the following motion to give the lie to all those opposite. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'this House congratulates the Ministers of the Labor Government on their honest, informative and comprehensive reports in this House and in the public media. In these statements they have, in the opinion of this House, displayed an expert knowledge of their Departments, kept the Parliament and the people fully informed and set a high standard of Parliamentary representation and Ministerial responsibility. '. 
The words of that motion answer the unsubstantiated charges of those opposite. I formally move: 
That the question be now put.  (Opposition members interjecting)- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I warn honourable members that if they do not resume their seats I will name them. The Minister cannot move that the question be put until I propose the question that the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Taxation Administration Bill 1 974 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Queensland Grant (Clare Weir) Bill and the Queensland Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Bill, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
I take this opportunity to make a brief statement at the request of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  I am informed that tonight the Channel 0-lQ. network, covering Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, carried an item reporting a telephone call said to have been made to the Channel by the Treasurer's son. The report described the caller, a young man, as being very upset. The report said that the young man who claimed to be the Treasurer's son told the channel: 
Those bastards in Canberra are not going to pull my father down. 
In fact none of the Treasurer's 3 sons made any such call to the Channel. The Channel 0-10 network has since broadcast a statement acknowledging that it had been the victim of a hoax. 
To say the least, this is a most unprincipled action by the Channel. To accept such an anonymous call without any checking, knowing full well the hurt that it would cause to the parties concerned, is an unprincipled, unjustifiable action. It is this kind of news presentation that brings the media into disrepute. Surely any responsible news medium would check its source before giving public expression to these views on such a prominent national personality. 
If the honourable member agrees with these sentiments, let him get up and say so. It is all the more hurtful to all concerned when it involves the family of the person concerned. Political life is hurtful enough to those involved in it without involving their families. This action does little credit to the channel or those concerned in the television presentation, and in my view is deserving of the condemnation of all fairminded citizens. If it is any satisfaction to those ..concerned, they may take comfort from the fact that they have caused considerable distress to the Treasurer and his family by their indefensible, thoughtless and harmful action. 
One of the reasons given for the blanket opposition by the Opposition to this Bill is that it was to be bulldozed through this House. Where the Opposition got that idea is a mystery to me. One of the statements that has been made is that the Opposition did not have time to consider the proposals on which I have elaborated. On 31 March 1971 the then Minister for the Interior, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  introduced into this House a number of measures appertaining to electoral reform. At my suggestion or with my permission he sought recently the advice of the Chief Australian Electoral Officer to ascertain which of those proposals are included in the Bill presently before the House. I will now quote from the notes sent a few days ago to  Mr Hunt,  the honourable member for Gwydir, by the Chief Electoral Officer. Part of the document states: 
This paper provides briefing notes on those clauses in the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill 1974 which are substantially the same as the clauses contained in the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1974. Reference is made by way of citation to the clauses of the present Bill with the corresponding clauses of the 1971 Bill in brackets. 
Included in this Bill, against which the Opposition, including the then Minister who introduced the previous Bill, will note are 16 amendments introduced by a Country Party Minister. Tonight the Opposition will divide this House and vote against those amendments. 
In 1971 it was all right to introduce the amendments. But now that a Labor Government has introduced them, like a lot of donkeys, the Opposition will line up and vote against proposals which it endorsed and we would have supported at that time. To prove what phoneys the Opposition members are I ask the permission of the House to incorporate a number of the clauses in the present Bill which the Country Party sponsored and which are today put forward by the Government but which the Opposition refuse to support. 
This document was produced by  Mr Ley  who has been described tonight by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who led the Opposition as one of the most prominent and reputable public servants. Now the honourable member is refusing to allow me to incorporate in Hansard the facts of the matter. The Opposition stands condemned if it votes against the proposals which it endorsed itself. 
May I be permitted to incorporate the document? 
MrKillen-No. 
The Opposition has said that it has not had time to consider the Bill. The Opposition is a very lazy lot. Opposition members have not read the Bill and they did not even know their own proposals from those of the Government. Tonight the honourable member for Gwydir will walk into this House and vote against 16 of the proposals which, as the then Minister, he asked the Parliament of Australia to endorse and which we, as the then Opposition, would have endorsed. Does that not prove to the Australian people what a phoney collection the Opposition is and how phoney are the arguments that have been brought down? The Opposition has asked for a non-Party joint committee to consider these matters. During the 23 years that the present Opposition was in government it brought forward only one reform, other than to gerrymander the electorates. The Opposition will vote tonight against that one reform, which in 1971 lapsed on the expiration and dissolution of that Parliament. Now the Opposition asks for a joint committee. That is a phoney way of saying that the Opposition is a lazy lot. None of the Opposition members have read the Bill. They have had months in which to do it. It must be 6 months since I gave the Opposition spokesman on electoral affairs in the Senate all the details of this Bill. It is weeks and months since I announced all the proposals to the Press and sent a statement of what was in the Bill to every member of this Parliament. Tonight these slow thinking, doddering, old men, as the Leader of the Liberal Party in Victoria described them, have not got round to registering the facts. Tonight they will vote against every proposal. 
A member of the Country Party, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  said that optional preferential voting was first past the post voting. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  who has just resumed his seat said that it was not. He knows what he is talking about. Except for his speech he did not show a bad knowledge of electoral affairs. The Opposition knows it is phoney when it says that first past the post voting is optional preferential voting. It says that it is an undemocratic system. First past the post voting is good enough for the Opposition's brothers in Britain. It is good enough for the New Zealanders. It is good enough for the United States. It is good enough for Canada. I do not subscribe to first past the post voting, but if the Opposition says that it is undemocratic it is saying that the people of all those countries have undemocratic governments. It was not until 1918 that the system was changed in this country, so every government in Australia up to 1918 was undemocratically elected if a first past the post voting system is undemocratic. The Opposition wants a bi-partisan approach to electoral affairs. Why? 
Yes. Can one imagine the Country Party sitting down with the Liberal Party in a bi-partisan approach on electoral affairs? The Opposition knows as well as I do that at the very mention of electoral affairs to the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  he nearly has a stroke. Tonight all the stars of the Opposition have sat aside because, behind the scenes, they have decided that they will salve their conscience and not come in and say how they differ on these issues. It matters little to me what the Opposition says about these matters but the people outside Parliament want optional preferential voting. They want fair postal voting. They do not want manipulated voting. People all over Australia, migrants in particular, are seeking electoral reform. 
Let us take a look at optional preferential voting. The Opposition says that this type of voting is rigged for the Australian Labor Party. Let us have a look at what has happened. Optional preferential voting was introduced for New Guinea by a Liberal Government. Do honourable members opposite put the people of New Guinea in the category of second-grade citizens who can put up with rigged boundaries and with rigged electorates? If it was good enough for a Liberal-Country Party Government to introduce this system in Papua New Guinea, what is wrong with its being introduced for the people of this country? Do honourable members opposite say that they are second-class citizens? It was the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  who introduced that system for Papua New Guinea. Today honourable members opposite say that Australia cannot have it. They say: 'Give it to those people in New Guinea. Who the hell gives a damn about them?' Is that the attitude of honourable members opposite? If so, they should get up and say so. They say that a secondclass electoral system is all right for New Guinea but they will not have it in their own country. What contemptible hypocrisy by those honourable members opposite. 
Recently in the Northern Territory optional preferential voting was introduced. The Australian Country Party says that optional preferential voting is no good. Of those seats in the Northern Territory, eleven went to preferences. In the end two were won by independent candidates and nine were won by the Australian Country Party. The fact of the matter is that that was the result of optional preferential voting in the Northern Territory. Do honourable members say that the Northern Territory election was rigged for the Labor Party? In the Australian Capital Territory the Labor Party won 4 seats under optional preferential voting. Do honourable members say that that is rigged voting? They know that their arguments are phoney. Why should people anywhere in this country, in this enlightened age, be asked to vote for seventy or eighty candidates? What is wrong with the system where they vote for the number of candidates equal to the number of vacancies? In certain circumstances I go along with the honourable member for Sturt who has just resumed his seat. Some people say that one needs only to vote for one candidate to have a formal vote. 
Quite frankly, any system is better than the present one which honourable members opposite know is impossible. Members of the Country Party are not very intelligent but a few of them are as intelligent as the average elector. Idefy any honourable member to justify Voting for 73 candidates and to give his reason why he puts one candidate seventy-second and another candidate as twenty-second. Honourable members know that this is not logical. This is a system which is not followed anywhere else in the world. It only adds to the number of informal votes. Why would not the Country Party want the present system to continue? Any party which can get members in this House with from 17 per cent to 30 per cent of the formal vote ought to support the system. Why should not any party which can return the Queensland Premier with 19 per cent of the vote go along with the system? It is because honourable members opposite are not democrats that they do not want this kind of reform. That is why they are opposing it tonight. Now they want an all-Party joint committee appointed. What a phoney collection honourable members opposite are in relation to this matter. They know as well as I do that these reforms are a long time overdue. Tonight by voting against these proposals honourable members opposite are denying a vote to people working abroad in the government service. They are denying people in many walks of life the right to exercise a franchise. They want to allow the rigged postal voting system to continue where those who are the most apt or earnest, as the case may be according to their political convictions shall sway the vote irrespective of what the wishes of the people might be.  Mr Speaker,  the situation is that those opposite have not bothered to study these proposals which have been known to the public for a long time. 
With due respect to my colleague who sits opposite, until tonight when he led for the Opposition on this issue I had not heard him speak on electoral affairs. Never have I seen a young man so conservative as the honourable member for Benelong  (Mr Howard).  He wants all the reforms in the world as long as he does not have to vote for them. That is the situation in this Parliament today. I have not the time to go through all aspects of this subject. I should like to refer to registration of political parties. Practically all other countries put the names of political parties on their ballot papers. What is wrong with that democratic proposal? What is wrong with putting the names of the parties on the ballot papers for people to see the political affiliations of those whom they are voting for? What is wrong with drawing for positions on the ballot paper? If honourable members opposite do not support it for this House why do they support it for the Senate? Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that their opposition to these proposals that we have brought down is phoney. The situation is, whether we like it or not, that those who sit opposite today are opposed to reforms in the electoral system just because they are not bringing them in. 
I made no statement that I bulldozed this Bill through the Parliament. I expected it to get more examination in this House than has been given in the cursory speeches that have been presented here tonight. I am amazed at the silence of members of the Country Party, confident as they are that they have bulldozed in the Caucus room those on that side who ought to stand up for democracy in this country. Why,  Mr Speaker,  Country Party members opposite are voting against 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. polling time. Yet in Queensland this has been law since 1915. Now the Country Party says it is undemocratic for the people to vote for the national Parliament between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. In Queensland the people have been voting under those conditions since 1915. 1 wonder, if this had been a free vote, how many honourable members opposite would support these proposals. 
The position is that those who sit opposite are opposed to electoral reform unless it is brought in at the point of the Country Party shotgun. Only by imposing on the people the most undemocratic proposals, be they on voting hours, electoral procedures or postal voting, will electoral changes be implemented by honourable members opposite. The suggestion by the Opposition of a joint committee is just a way of putting the matter aside. Does the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  sincerely believe that the Queensland method of regimenting postal votes is democratic in State and Federal politics in Queensland? Being quite honest, I do not exclude any parties from this; the Queensland system of postal voting is recognised throughout the nation as the crookest system of voting anywhere in the world. The Queensland system of postal voting, Federal and State, is the crookest system because of the manipulation that takes place. The Queensland members of this Parliament who intend to vote against the mobile polling arrangements are voting against the system that is in force in their own State and against the system that is in force in Western Australia. Yet, honourable members on the other side of the House tonight are voting against a reform that gives a person in hospital the right to see the electoral officer put his ballot paper in the ballot box in front of an official of the Government, instead of some Party organiser or some other unofficial person. Everybody knows that today people in homes are preyed upon by the over-zealous type of campaigner. We are seeking in every way today to find some reform that will bring to the people of this country real democracy. 
Let me recite for the benefit of the people an article that appeared in the 'National Times' on 18 November 1974. 1 thought it was a good article, firstly because it was about me, and secondly because it was written by a person who would have a close affinity with that distinguished or undistinguished gathering which I sadly gaze on sitting in possum paddock in this Parliament. This is what the article had to say. Do not forget that this is the 'National Times'. It says: 
Daly's bill: Let's hope it's not delayed - 
And then it goes on to say- 

 Mr Daly's new Electoral Bill is a thing or beauty and joy - 
That has not been said about me for years- even if it has a brief life and the Liberal-Country Opposition in the Senate kills it. 
It gets better as the article goes on. It states further: c 
I am delighted with the Bill, and the principal source of pleasure is the fact that virtually all of the proposed amendments are, as far as I can see, free of obvious partisan advantage. 
They are designed to aid the voter, to provide a quick result, and to discourage sharp practices. 1 hope that the Opposition views the Bill in this light too, and I will be very interested in its criticisms. 
Why make such a fuss about minor amendments to the electoral system? Because they are fundamental to the whole business of government in our system. 
Let me tell honourable members who wrote that article. It was written by none other than Professor Don Aitken. I understand he is a prominent ex-member of the Australian Country Party. I understand he left the Country Party because he woke up to what a lot of dead heads he was wandering around with. There is the argument. It is as non-partisan as can be. Every proposal in this Bill is as non-partisan as can be. How can one please the Country Party tonight? I have adopted 16 of its amendments, 16 basic points of its policy, yet the member who introduced them is going to sit on the Opposition side tonight and vote against me. You cannot please them. They are like the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  When one does what he tells one to do he still gets cranky. That is the situation of honourable members opposite. Tonight we will pleasantly look at members of the Country Party, and every Opposition member who was here prior to the last election, vote against their own proposals simply because they have been introduced by a Labor Government. 
-I admit,  Mr Speaker,  it is a little out of character for me but I was carried away. Tonight I want to mention quickly in passing the points contained in this Bill. Optional preferential voting will give to the people of Australia the opportunity to vote without there being a waste of countless thousands of informal votes. Registration of political parties follows an electoral reform in practically all democratic countries. The introduction of mobile polling booths will bring to people who are sick, aged and infirm the opportunity to cast democratic votes. This provision also will do away with manipulation of the ballot, something experienced by many people. What can be more democratic than drawing for positions on the ballot paper? It applies in every trade union, every cricket club, every Hibernian Society and even in that old doddery place where the senators congregate. 
The Bill also introduces closing of the polls at 6 p.m. Every Queenslander has voted under that system for more than a generation and what is wrong with it in this modern age? Why should not people state their change of name if the change has occurred up to 12 months prior to the election? Why should not postal votes be in on the night of the election? I can tell the people of this country that in the last election Labor lost a seat on postal votes because a lot of people voted after 8 o 'clock on the night in question but signed that they had voted before that time. This Bill will prevent that kind of malpractice. If a person wants a postal vote why should he not put it into the ballot box before the close of the poll at 8 p.m. on election night? Why should not postal voting facilities be available to a man on remand at Long Bay Gaol, a man not convicted of anything and who still has all his civil rights but probably cannot raise bail. That man has not forfeited his freedom. He is innocent until proven guilty and consequently should be able to vote, This happens throughout the world. 
I hope honourable members sitting opposite find at the next election that about 30 people have changed their names to theirs. Then they would realise why they should have voted to prevent people voting under their names. Tonight honourable members opposite, by voting against these things, will militate against the chances of a ( British subject voting. In addition to that, the Bill relates to failures and contains amendments relating to monetary penalties that go back to 1902. Those things have been brought up to date under this Bill. They, and a dozen and one other things, are reforms of a vital nature to the electoral system. If those things had been carefully studied I doubt whether any honourable member opposite could have objected other than in relation to optional preferential voting about which some people may have differences of opinion. Some honourable members may have differences of opinion on one or two minor issues. About 50 per cent of these propositions are Country Party proposals, and that made it pretty hard for me to support them, but tonight we find that honourable members opposite are going to vote against them. 

 Mr Speaker, there were those who said I was going to bulldoze this Bill through the Parliament tonight but I do not know where they got that idea. I am amazed that those who talked so much, the spokesmen on these issues, hid in the background tonight and would not come forward in this debate. Now they are going to vote blindly against the proposals in this Bill the vast majority of which are their own proposals. I say quite sincerely that the proposals in this Bill were designed in order to give to the people of 
Australia an updated electoral system. No system is perfect. Every system needs reform from , time to time. Very few honourable members who sit opposite have studied this Bill, least of all, I; think, the honourable member who led in this debate for them. When they sit down and study the Bill which they will have voted against they! will find that they did a disservice to democracy , by trying to refuse to bring up to date the elec-. tora system of this country. The vast majority of these reforms were instituted and were sought in this Parliament as early as 1971 by the man who heads the Australian electoral system in this country,  Mr Ley.  This indicates that something should be done in the electoral system, and that is all we are endeavouring to do tonight. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. . , 
This is the first occasion on which we have seen members of the Liberal Party prepared to walk on hot coals for their leader while members of the Country Party make their way around the corner over the warm sands. Quite surprisingly, I suppose, we refuse to accept the amendment that has been moved. I suppose that this is a remarkable occasion. It must be the first time upon which neither the  speaker  who led for the Opposition nor the members of the Opposition read the Bill that is before the Parliament. We gave them 6 months to think over this matter. The honourable member for Gwydir (  Mr Hunt)  who introduced sixteen of the amendments that we brought in has had since 31 March 1971 to read the Bill. It is obvious that they have not got around to it yet because they have voted against their own proposal. This includes the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  who asked the honourable member for Gwydir to move the amendments on his behalf on 31 March 1971. So if they cannot wake up after 2! years, what the hell is the use of holding up the Parliament for another 6 months? 
In these proposals tonight we bring forward measures which we believe are designed to give the people of Australia a more democratic electoral system. We even stretched the limit to see that we included the proposals that were endorsed by the Country Party when in Government. The Country Party did not vote for those proposals tonight when they were brought in from this side of the Parliament. What is all this fantasy about waiting another 6 months? How do we know that honourable members opposite will read the Bill in that time? How do we know that they will know any more than they do tonight? I should have liked to hear the Leader of the Australian Country Party speak not so much on the Bill but on how he stood over the great man whom members of the Liberal Party will walk through the fires of hell to defend. I should have liked to have heard the Leader of the Country Party say how he told members of the Liberal Party to vote for this or else. This is typical of those who sit opposite. There is not an idea amongst them, not one bright idea on anything. All they seek to do is to frustrate and hold up to ridicule the Government of this country irrespective of the measures that are brought down. 
I think a lot of old people would like better voting facilities in hospitals and other places. 
There are lots of people, intelligent and unintelligent, who would like not to have to vote for 73 candidates or 48 candidates, as the case may be, but only for the 5, 6, 8 or 10 candidates of their choice. I think numerous people in the community would like voting to finish at 6 p.m. There are countless hundreds of people overseas who would like to know that their voting rights are protected. There are people throughout Australia who would like to know that the updated - 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  but the amendment was very wide. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said that all these measures should be postponed for 6 months. I am normally a person of few words, but these measures take a lot to cover. Tonight the Opposition rejects the proposals put forward by the spokesman for the Opposition on this issue. It is just an endeavour to frustrate the policy of this Government and above all else to defeat the 16 proposals that the Country Party endorsed. We are now asked to postpone for 6 months the one bright idea that honourable members opposite had in 23 years of government. Therefore tonight we on this side of the Parliament cannot support this amendment. We will vote against it. We categorise it for what it is- an endeavour to hold up the democratic process of this country and a classic example to the people of Australia of members of the Opposition who are too lazy to read a Bill and who voted against their own proposals because they did not know what to do on the issues. 
If honourable members opposite want a bit of sensible advice I will give it to them. I do not often do so for nothing. Let me tell members of the Opposition what they should have done on this measure. They should have voted for the second reading of this Bill and voted for the proposals which they agreed with. I am honest enough to say to honourable members opposite that I think there are certain proposals in respect to the registration of political parties which, by a combined and united course, we could have improved. But the situation is that members of the Opposition were not prepared tonight even to move that a joint committee be appointed. They only said that one ought to be appointed. They did not move for one to be appointed. If the Bill had been considered in Committee they could have brought forward ideas which I would have been prepared to consider in the light of events if I thought they would improve the Bill. Honourable members opposite did not study the 
Bill; they did not move that a joint committee be appointed and they did not want to consider the Bill in Committee. I was prepared to give three or four hours for debating this Bill in Committee. Let me show honourable members today's daily program. It states: 
Electoral Laws Amendment Bill- Resumption of debate on second reading; second reading; committee. 
Progress to be reported. 
I was intending to allow all day Wednesday for debate on the Committee stage of the Bill. What a collection of mugs members of the Opposition are. They did not know when they had an opportunity in their grasp. They were not prepared to debate the Committee stage. All I wanted to get through tonight was the second reading stage of the Bill. 
I wanted to finish the second reading stage of the Bill. Members of the Opposition refused to debate the Bill in Committee. Although I have not a high regard for the collection who sit opposite I thought I might have got one bright idea which might improve the Bill. The fact that honourable members opposite have not brought forward one bright idea and they are now trying to put the Bill off for 6 months shows that they did not read the Bill. They do not know what is in it. They do not even know the Bill contains sixteen of their own proposals, even though an electoral officer gave a copy of the proposals to the honourable member for Gwydir and told members of the Opposition what their own proposals were in  order  to prevent their making this major blunder tonight. Honourable members opposite voted tonight against 16 proposals which they introduced. They were too dumb to know that they were voting against the things they introduced. The honourable member for Gwydir came to this Parliament and asked it to vote for the 16 proposals and now,  2lA  years later, asks it to vote against the same proposals. I have a lot of respect for the honourable member for Gwydir but I cannot follow his reasoning on that issue. We therefore reject the amendment. 
That the question be now put. 
The only amendment which may be moved to such question - 
That is, that the Bill be now read a third time:  is by omitting 'now 'and adding 'this day  6  months'. 
I think my friend, the honourable member for Moreton, has been too moderate. In view of what the Minister is doing to the Parliament, it should have been '9 months'. 
There are many strange names of electorates and polling places. For instance, there is a polling place called Spring Gully; another called Barkers Creek; another called Harkaway; another called Nangiloo and one called Wuk Wuk-Wy Yung in Gippsland. As a matter of fact there is one called Happy Valley. I have not, as yet, been able to ascertain with certainty whether there is one named the Valley of Death. This name first received prominenceand this gives some substance to the suggestion that there should be one, or is one- following a statement that the Leader Opposition made in Melbourne on 16 November in which he said: 
If I asked them to walk through the Valley of Death on hot coals, they would do it. 
He also said: 
Every one of them trusts me completely and absolutely because I am honourable. 
I repeat what the Leader of the Opposition said: 
If I asked them to walk through the Valley of Death on hot coals, they would do it. 
This gives substance and prominence to the suggestion that possibly a polling booth or electorate should be named Valley of Death. Recent events in this once great Party, if I might coin a phrase, indicate that many members are having second thoughts about walking through this Valley of Death- even without the hot coals. In fact I would say that the honourable member for Wannon is now an unemployed fire walker. I can also confirm that he will not be burnt at the stake. Despite the statement made in regard to the Valley of Death I notice today some news- it has been reported and I presume it is authentic- that there was a move to oust the Leader of the Opposition this morning. So evidently in addition to the honourable member for Wannon there are a number of others also who are no longer fire walkers. 
It has been put to me that we should make the Valley of Death a subdivision or an electorate as the case may be. It is quite topical because there is a redistribution on and the Government has the responsibility of naming electorates. What would be better than to rename the electorate of Bruce the Valley of Death? I would ask the Distribution Commissioners to consider that proposal but I am certain to receive great objection from the honourable member for Wannon who would no doubt contradict that point of view and possibly would want the change made to the name of his electorate. In any case. I thank the honourable member for the question. It is an appropriate one. As I say it is unfortunate at this stage that so many have so quickly lost their zeal to walk over those coals for one who can always be trusted. As the Leader of the Opposition said in his statement at the time his team recognised his political judgment and knew if he said 'it must be thus' on an issue, it was that. He said: 
They also trust what I will achieve for this country. 
Is it not regrettable that so many who a few weeks ago, as he said, would have walked over hot coals today had to be dragged in to support him and to bring him back to the realisation that the Valley of Death is not the place to fight political battles? 
I move: 
That the Bill - 
I move - 
-I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bill be as follows: 
For the Committee stage until 12.20 a.m. and for the remaining stages until 12.25 a.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer supplied to Question No. 713. The answer to Question No. 7 1 3 was too lengthy to be published in Hansard, however, copies are available at the Table Office of the House of Representatives. 
The result for each Division has been sent previously to the member in a statement prepared by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer supplied to question No. 479 which appeared in Hansard 31 October 1974, pages 3247-8. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory was good enough to advise me yesterday that he intended to raise this matter. I think it specifically refers to the question, amongst others, of the Darwin Piggery. A very extensive telegram was sent to me on behalf of the Darwin Piggery. It appeared, I think, in the newspapers in the Northern Territory. I shall not read it but shall seek leave later to incorporate it in my answer to put the record straight. I tell the honourable member this: The Darwin Piggery is obviously not short of money. It took a full page advertisement, in the same terms as the telegram from  Mrs Ryall,  in the 'Northern Territory Times 'of 27 November 1974. 
These are the facts of the matter raised by the honourable member: One of the properties acquired in the 32 square mile acquisition in the Territory was formerly owned by  Mr H.  Bauer and  Mrs J.  Ryall, and they operate a business there known as the Darwin Piggery. In June 1974, on the advice of the Commonwealth Crown Law authorities, I rejected a claim for compensation submitted by Darwin Piggery on the basis that Darwin Piggery is a business name only and not the name of the registered proprietor, and therefore had no direct claim for compensation. On the advice of the Crown Law authorities all dealings are to be with the former owners. Protracted negotiations have been held with the agents for the former owners but as yet no agreement has been reached and at this stage it appears that agreement will be impossible because of the wide divergence in values, that is, between the valuation and the claim. The former owners claim $700,000 and the taxation valuation is $450,000. 
As the honourable member knows, the land on which the Darwin Piggery stands now belongs to the Commonwealth. It has been com.pulsorily acquired and the only interest which the former owners have in law is a claim for compensation. Pan of the land formerly owned by Messrs Bauer and Ryall was leased to a firm, 
Wolpers and Law Pry Ltd, and the Department of Services and Property paid the firm an amount of $100,000 compensation in respect of its section of the property on 3 June 1 974. Payment has also been made to Messrs Bauer and Ryall in respect of their adjoining vacant land. No written offer of compensation has been made to the Darwin Piggery because of the long negotiations that have been going on and the ineptitude of the former owners in the matter of the submission and nature of their claim. 
Following many meetings a detailed claim concerning the piggery was submitted only in October 1974. The telegram is therefore misleading, intemperate and mischievous. Obviously no written offer of compensation could be made until such a claim was received and a detailed investigation of the claim had been made. Agents for the former owners have been informed verbally of the amount of compensation which this office would be prepared to recommend. If the vendors do not accept the offer of compensation they have their normal rights in law as does every other citizen. Agreement on interim rental has been reached with Darwin Piggery, and the Department of the Northern Territory in September 1974 issued an acknowledgement of Tenure form to the former owners to cover their continued tenure. Because of the restriction on the length of tenancy which could be offered under the Crown Lands Ordinance a more lengthy tenancy than might otherwise be available was offered under the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act. 
Agents of the Piggery have indicated that they are happy with the rental being sought. Agents for the former owners had been informed that any part payment approved by the Minister in respect of their claim would probably not be physically paid until January 1975. There was very good reason for this. But now that the Appropriation Bills have been passed we expect to make a part payment to the former owners before the end of 1975. This criticism therefore is based on ignorance and is mischievous. It can be said categorically that the major delay in settling the claim for compensation has been caused by delays in the submission of the claims by the former owners and by indications from their agents that claims submitted may not be final claims. They had been consistently reluctant to submit a fully detailed final claim until October 1974. In another case, B. B. Brickworks Pty Ltd, a large industrial undertaking with a claim for compensation exceeding that of the Piggery - 
The question is from one of your colleagues and it is very important. No difficulty has been experienced in achieving settlement in this case because the organisation was efficient, submitted concise claims, and was able to negotiate acceptable terms without delay. The Department rejects the accusations of  Mr Bauer  and  Mrs Ryall.  They have shown themselves to be inefficient and the telegram and publication thereof is malicious and obviously done with an ulterior motive. If all industries in the Territory are carried on in the way the Darwin Piggery is, it is no wonder that the latter is a struggling local industry.  Mr Bauer  and  Mrs Ryall,  instead of making a public exhibition of their ignorance, should seek some competent advice in order to get the satisfaction which so many others have obtained readily and gracefully. I ask for leave to incorporate the telegram in Hansard. 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask for leave to make a short statement. 
I move: 
That paragraph (3) of the resolution of appointment of the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties be omitted and that the following paragraph be substituted: '(3) That the committee consist of 7 members, four to be nominated by the Prime Minister, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party . ' 
The original resolution was adopted by the House and, as it stands, it provides for 6 members, three to be nominated by the Prime Minister, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. As you can see, it is proposed that the ratio be changed to seven and four. I understand that the resolution was adopted by the House almost unanimously and I make a brief explanation of the reason for the change. It seems that there is good reason to bring this resolution into conformity with the usual precedent for the establishment of a committee. The precedent has been departed from in this case and all my motion seeks to do is to restore the normal ratio in a committee of this nature. I might mention also that the committee members already include 2 teachers, one of whom has worked with children with specific learning difficulties, and the Government is moving to add a doctor of medicine, whose experience will be invaluable. I make that brief explanation and I hope that the House will endorse the change. This is a very valuable committee and this motion, if adopted, will not interfere with the workings of the committee but it might add to any findings that the committee might bring down. 
by leave- I move: 
In the Bill omit 'Director-General' wherever appearing, insert 'Director'. 
The change from 'Director-General' to 'Director' in these amendments is a move towards consistency in the use of titles. 'Director-General' is to apply when the bearer supervises directors by means of operations in States. In this case an officer will be the head of an agency but not of a network of branches of a regional nature. I hope that is understandable to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Government owns the following buildings in Newcastle- 
Australian Government offices, 526 Hunter Street Customs House, Watt Street 2/4 Pacific Street and leases office space in eight buildings in various locations in the city. 
(a) Leased space occupied by Australian Government departments -29,021 sq.ft. 
Owned space occupied by Australian Government departments -36,732 sq. ft. 
Australian Government employment figures for Newcastle are not available. 
$93,451 per annum. 
I state in answer to the honourable member that it is true that in this House the Opposition did not take advantage of the opportunity to debate properly the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill and subsequently voted against it without giving it any reasonable consideration. I would say that the legislation introduced was not only impartial but also of far reaching benefit to the Australian people. It included no fewer than 16 amendments introduced into this House by the honourable member for Gwydir on 31 March 1971 when he was the Minister for the Interior. We had the unseemly and irresponsible spectacle in the Parliament of the former Minister and all his supporters over there- there are only one or. two of them, I know- voting against the legislation which they had introduced. In commenting upon aspects of the Bill the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Senator Withers,  said that the Opposition thought things were different when it saw the provisions in legislative form. Although they had introduced the provisions, members of the Opposition decided that they were not good. Consequently, those reforms and others were defeated without due consideration. The Bill was not given even a second reading in the other place, despite the fact that it contained amendments and reforms that members of the media and others had said were very necessary. 
The situation now is that we are loaded with an electoral system that has not been properly revised since 1902. The regrettable feature of this is that the Chief Australian Electoral Officer under successive governments has worked for these reforms. It must be exceedingly disappointing for him to see an Act which he sought to bring up to date being treated so shabbily by honourable members opposite. It is said that the Opposition did not have the opportunity to debate this Bill in the Parliament. Let me say that no gag motion was moved during the second reading debate. With the agreement of the Opposition I had intended to take the debate only to the second reading stage on the first day. I was prepared to allow a very extensive debate in Committee. The honourable member for Moreton said that he did not want the debate in Committee. He did not even want to discuss it. Consequently it went through this House without any gags whatever. The Liberal section of the Opposition capitulated to the Australian Country Party, which stands over it on these issues. It is true that in Queensland the Country Party gerrymander is the most undemocratic in the world, and it is to the eternal discredit of the Liberal Party in this Parliament that it continually capitulates to the Country Party gerrymanders and refuses electoral reforms. One of the Government's proposed reforms, optional preferential voting, was introduced into the Australian Capital Territory by those who sit opposite. It was introduced into Papua New Guinea by those who sit opposite. Recently the Liberal and Country Parties won elections in the Northern Territory and the ACT under optional preferential voting. And they have the hide to say that it is loaded for the Labor Party. 
The Government will press on with its electoral reform. Early in the new year honourable members opposite will get another opportunity to vote on these proposals. I shall expect them to judge the matter responsibly and make suggestions in Committee as to what might be decided. We are prepared to consider these matters. But on the overall picture, let the Australian people realise that sitting opposite today are people who believe in rigged boundaries. The Country Party exists on them. Sitting up in the back of the chamber is an honourable member who was elected on 26 per cent of the primary vote. 
He said he has had a tremendous increase. The vote went up from 1 7 per cent. The Press of this country has commended this legislation. In addition, it has condemned the gerrymander in Queensland. If it is possible for  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to win on Saturday- and that seems very doubtful- he can put it down not to the vote of the Australian people but to the rigged boundaries under the Country Party, which continually criticises this Government's reforms and will not give effect to them. I thank the honourable member for a very intelligent question and I am delighted to say that I think the answer was very good. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legisation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Homeless Persons Assistance Bill as they are both associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in the debate. 
I present the report of the Australian Branch Delegation to the Twentieth Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference held at Colombo, Sri Lanka, during September 1974 and seek leave to make a statement in connection with it. 
I move: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
In the unavoidable absence of the Prime Mininister  (Mr Whitlam)  who is on an official engagement - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given to the Right Honourable the Leader of the Opposition to Question No. 569 (Hansard, 15 October 1974, page 2371 ). 
As pointed out in that answer, ex gratia payments are made in lieu of rates and services in certain cases only. Due to their very nature, they are not considered to be 'recurrent ex gratia payments ' as each case is, upon receipt of the claim, considered as an individual assessment and determined on its merits. 
To ascertain the annual total of ex gratia payments to municipal and shire councils in Western Australia would involve a detailed check of individual payments made by all departments. The considerable effort entailed would not appear to be justified. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
As was pointed out in answer to Question No. 569 (Hansard 15 October 1974 p. 2371), this information is not readily available and cannot be obtained except after consultation with all Australian Government Departments and detailed examination of all the ex gratia payments made. 
Thus to obtain a precise figure such as that sought by the right honourable member would be a major task involving much time and effort and this does not seem to be warranted. In the absence of sufficient justification to do so, I am not prepared to divert resources for such a task. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Copies of Ministerial press releases issued by me are distributed as follows: 
by hand to the Press Gallery; 
by post in accordance with a Departmental mailing list; 
by publication in the Australian Government Digest. 
In addition to the Press Gallery, press releases are distributed to all Senators and Members, and to a list of people who have written requesting that they receive a copy of all statements which I release. This list is constantly changing. 
The number of copies circulated is approximately 400. 
The costs attributable to Ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this part of the right honourable member's question. 
One, on a part-time basis only. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given to the right honourable the Leader of the Opposition to Question No. 569(Hansard 15 October 1974 p. 2371). 
Without prolonged investigations involving all departments it is not possible to provide accurate details of the information required. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Neither my Department nor the Australian Electoral Office administers any programs which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
to (18)See (1)above 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
General business and grievance debate not discussed in 1974 Session of 28th Parliament as Address in Reply to Queen's Opening Speech not adopted when Parliament dissolved 11.4.74. Address in Reply to Governor General's Speech opening 1st Session of 29th Parliament adopted 2.8.74. 
The answer to the honourable members ' question is as follows: 
The answer to this part, depends on the definition of the word 'recently'. I do not recall mentioning this particular guillotine in my speeches in the past few months but nevertheless I still recall the infamous occasion in May 1971 when the then Government placed 17 Bills in a very restrictive guillotine. 
The limitation on the debates is demonstrated by the information being supplied in relation to the following parts of this question. 
Records do not contain this information. 
On 4 May 1971 MrSwartz, then Leader of the House, declared that 17 Bills were urgent Bills. The House agreed to the question that the Bills be considered urgent, after division. 
Divisions were taken on three of the Bills: 
Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971- In committee- Bill as a whole be agreed toAmendment moved by  Mr C.  R. Cameron. 
Papua and New Guinea Bill 1 971 -In committeeClause 3 be agreed to. 
States Grants ( Rural Reconstruction) Bill 1 97 1 - 
Second reading- Amendment moved by  Dr Patterson. 
In committee- Bill as a whole be agreed to and Bill be reported without amendment. 
The House agreed to consider together the subject matter of the following measures: 
Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971; United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill 1971: Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill 1971; Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill 1971: Seamen's Compensation Bill 1971. 
Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1971: Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill 1971; Income Tax ( Bearer Debentures ) Bill 1 97 1 . 
States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill 1971: Loan ( Farmers ' Debt Adjustment ) Bill 1 97 1 . 
Papua and New Guinea Bill 1971- Papua New Guinea- Constitutional Development- Ministerial Statement- Motion to take note of paper. 
Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill 1971: Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Bill 1 97 1 . 
Superannuation Bill 1970: Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill (No. 2) 1970. 
Nine separate debates took place- after the order of the day had been called on for the following Bills: 
Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) 197 1 
Income Tax Assessment (No. 2 ) 197 1 
States Grants ( Rural Reconstruction ) 1 97 1 
Papua and New Guinea 197 1 Stevedoring Industry Charge 1971 
Superannuation 1970 
Defence Forces Retirement Benefits ( No. 2 ) 1 970 
Trade Practices 1971 
Wool Industry 1971 
Time spent on each of the Bills was as follows: 
I have heard of the proposed formation of another political party in Tasmania. It appears, though, to have certain growing or labour pains at the moment. Consequently, I have not had an opportunity to study the proposal precisely. I might mention for the benefit of the House that I understand the Australian Country Party is forming a branch of its Party, under the title of the National Party, in Tasmania, and it may change the voting pattern. I have a copy of the 'Saturday Evening Mercury' dated 8 February 1 975. An article states: 
The Country Party was trying to exploit Tasmania for some cheap empire building, the Liberal Party Leader  (Mr Bingham)  said today. 
Their intrusion here is a shabby and short sighted move to serve the personal ambition for more power by the Country Party Leader  (Mr Anthony). 
It is particularly alarming when one considers the unsavoury place this organisation has in the Tasmanian scene',  Mr Bingham  said. 
So it can be seen that a change in the voting system may be necessary. According to the Press report,  Mr Anthony  replied in this way: 

 Mr Anthony said: 'I would have had some sympathy for this point of view if the Liberal Party had a better performance in Tasmania. But when that Party has been losing seats here and Tasmania has had a Labor Government something like 27 out of 30 years I find it hard to accept that everything is all right and that there is no room in Tasmania for another political voice. ' 
I also understand that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  arrived there. One could not blame the Tasmanians for not wanting to have Reggie Wright and Bjelke-Petersen in the State at the one time. To say the very least, the Tasmanian Liberals are very discerning people. I think the Tasmanians realise the old saying- 
I move: 
That the House, at its rising, adjourn until 10 a.m. tomorrow. 
At this stage I make a brief explanation. Later today I will give notice of the hours of sitting, which may be debated tomorrow. 
in reply- I listened with interest to the propaganda speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  I hoped that tomorrow this matter would have been debated more fully and that he would not have gone off half cocked as he did today. The fact of the matter is that the days of sitting will not be reduced. It is just that the altered sittings will suit a lot of people. In March there are holidays such as Canberra Day and Easter. The times of sittings in previous sessions which I will give the House now, are interesting. In 1965 under the then Government- that is, the present Oppositionthe Parliament sat for 27 days during the autumn session, in 1966 for 25 days, in 1967 for 31 days, in 1968 for 28 days and in 1969 for 29 days. 
-When the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  was Leader of the House the greatest number of days on which the Parliament sat in the autumn session was 3 1. We will exceed that in this session. In 1973 we sat for 34 days and last year, because of the election, for 16 days. This session it is proposed that we sit for 30 days but honourable members will observe from the notice that has been sent out that if necessary the sittings may be extended. There is no desire to curtail debates in the House. We will sit for  26M  hours a week and, if my memory serves me right, that is a little longer than it was in the last session. In any case, the longer the session lasts the fewer members of the Opposition we see in the Parliament. I have here details of the attendances last year of Opposition members. The Opposition has 61 members but on occasions it could muster only 40. One-third of them was away and  a  couple of times, even on  a  censure motion, the Opposition did not have enough members here to call a division. It took the result on the chin without dividing the House. 
I would like to incorporate in Hansard details of attendances of members of the Opposition. They already appear in Hansard but let us record them again for the nation to see. The Opposition was down to 47, 40 or 48 on occasions, and do not forget that those members who were not here, the Leader of the Opposition included, were wandering all around the country campaigning against the Labor Party. Like a collection of political butcher birds, Opposition members come here and then disappear into the wilderness again. They will not fulfil their obligations. I will bet that the longer we sit the less we will see of the honourable members opposite. They are growling about a lack of sitting time, when one-third of them cannot be bothered attending the Parliament. Have I the permission of the House to incorporate in Hansard these figures from the authentic records? 
-Of course not. 
Yes. 
Opposition members- No. 
The Opposition's sorry record will not see the light of day in Hansard, but it is here for all to see. Amongst the worst offenders are those who complain about not having enough time for debate. I give honourable members my assurance that there will be no curtailment of sitting hours or the sitting times of the Parliament. In addition, Opposition members will find that this session probably will be the longest autumn session they have had for a long time. The opportunity is being taken to give honourable members an opportunity to attend to their work in the Parliament and in other places. It will give the Parliamentary Counsel and others time to prepare their legislation and other things, and in every way - 
Opposition members- Oh! 
Opposition members have one track minds; if one changes one's ideas it takes them weeks to find out what it is all about and they see something sinister in it. There is not one Opposition member who privately is not looking forward to being able to go out and give to the public his infamous message about the Labor Party some time during the March recess. In any case, we will be watching the count in every division, so the Opposition Whip had better make certain that he has more than two-thirds of his members here and that Opposition members are not running around their electorates when they ought to be in the Parliament, because under the new sitting arrangements they will have adequate time to be in their electorates. They ought to be here when the Parliament is sitting. I do not want to see any of these crocodile tears from the honourable member for New England. The Opposition's record in autumn sessions is a shabby one. It is there for all to see. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the Opposition's record. Am I given permission? 
Opposition members- No. 
The Liberal and Country parties have one way of hiding their record and they do not want anybody to see it. In any case, I will debate this matter at more length tomorrow. The story which the Opposition puts out is completely false and it is completely condemned by its own record. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Government will be opposing the amendment. 
Opposition  members- Why? 
If honourable members opposite are patient I shall explain why in a much more thoughtful and better manner than those who spoke for them in trying to put a case for postponement of the consideration of the Bill until next week. I am not influenced by what is said by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who rang for a car to meet him at Darwin in the middle of the Cyclone Tracy disaster. 
Probably no more important or urgent legislation has ever been brought before this Parliament than that introduced today by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  One reason that this Parliament is back early is to enable it to deal with legislation of this kind. One ofthe most important aspects of the Government's legislative program is to put this legislation through. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  from his rare visits to the Northern Territory, ought to know that the people of Darwin are criticising the Commission and the Government for the inaction of the Commission. An interim body was set up immediately after the disaster; but at this stage, as honourable members know, it has no right to pay out money and cannot function in any way legally. There has been great criticism of this failure. The Parliament is debating this matter today, which is the first day of the sitting, in order to enable the legislation to be put through with a minimum of delay.  Sir Leslie  Thiess has been appointed to do certain things but it is necessary for him to have the authority to act. There is work to be done in Darwin by the Commission. We are now being asked to delay that for another week or so. 
I find it incredible that the brains trust which sits opposite, with its numerous advisers, cannot inside the space of 24 hours or so be able to put a presentable case and not delay the passage of this important legislation. Little did I think that I would sit in this Parliament and see even the honourable member for the Northern Territory seeking to delay and frustrate and threatening to hold up in another place important legislation on which thousands of people in Darwin and throughout this country depend. That is typical of the approach of those who sit opposite. All they want to do is frustrate, delay, put off and criticise. I suppose their colleagues in another place will reject this legislation. I challenge them to do so. They have done every other contemptible thing except stop the people of Darwin from getting the assistance to which they are entitled. I listened today to the mealy-mouthed exposition on this subject from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  He seems to think that the passage of this Bill should be delayed so that he can criticise it. Countless thousands of people are still wanting action in the Northern Territory. It is apparent from the way in which honourable members opposite spoke on this matter today that the Opposition has had a pretty good look at the Bill. It knows a lot about its clauses. The Government sees no reason why its passage should be delayed this week. 
The fact is that the honourable member for the Northern Territory and other honourable members opposite want to play politics with the suffering of the Darwin people. We are not going to be a party to that. This legislation will be going through this Parliament this week. The Opposition can divide the House on it as much as it likes. That will be an indication to the people of 
Australia that it does not give a damn about what happens to the people of Darwin so long as it can make political capital out of the matter. Let there be no bones about it: Everything honourable members opposite do is politically motivated. Every move they make is sinister. They are endeavouring at all times to frustrate the will of the Government. The Leader of the Opposition has threatened that the other place will hold up this legislation concerning Darwin as a reprisal against the Government. For every minute that the people of Darwin suffer from this legislation not being passed they should remember that it is those who sit opposite, including the part-time member for the Northern Territory, who are to blame. It is the old, old story of the Opposition wanting to hold up, frustrate and delay. 
Does any honourable member opposite say that the Opposition is not in favour of the legislation? Is it in favour of it? If so, why is the Opposition wanting to delay its passage for another week? The collective brains of honourable members opposite could not add one iota to the worth of the measure. Honourable members opposite know full well that that is the case. I do not intend to delay the passage of this legislation by speaking for too long. The motion has been moved which will enable this legislation to be debated tomorrow. The Government is not going to be a party to the holding up of legislation when it is being criticised in Darwin at this moment for not passing it. Those people in Darwin who are seeking to delay the passage of this measure are not very concerned about other than the politics of the situation. Of course, they have ready made parties in this Parliament who are prepared to do those things despite the suffering of the people of the Northern Territory. This legislation will go through this week because it is important that it go through. It is far-reaching legislation. Any honourable member opposite who is fair dinkum should not do anything to hold up something which is going to benefit people who have suffered from a disaster the extent of which is unknown in the history of this country. 
The Government opposes the deferment. The Bill will be debated tomorrow. The Opposition can hold it up, threaten and challenge as much as it will, but we on this side stand to support the people of Darwin who are suffering, to rebuild Darwin and to give them the things they want. We are not going to be a party to holding up legislation for which the people who depend on it most are clamouring at this time. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Snedden's amendment)  stand pan of the question. 
It is true that the Government has introduced certain legislation to provide for the disclosure of campaign funds. It has come to my knowledge that huge amounts have now been donated, particularly to the opponents of the Australian Labor Party in an endeavour to defeat it at any election that might be held. I have in front of me an article from the 'Australian' of 12 February 1975 which states that $400,000 has been donated to the Liberal Party campaign funds. Part of the article states 
The Liberal Party will run an extensive radio and television advertising campaign to improve its public image, aiming at a $400,000 outlay. 
The Liberal Party National Campaign Committee is planning the move, which is designed as a mid-term effort to boost its standing. 
That indicates that $400,000 is coming from anonymous sources. The public does not know who is putting the money in, whether the money is coming from sources at home or abroad or just what sinister influence it enables the people who give these funds to have over the Liberal and Country Parties. 
As honourable members know, a candidate may spend $500 in a House of Representatives election campaign or $1,000 in a Senate election campaign. Yet I understand that the Liberal candidate for Macarthur is planning to spend $40,000 in the fruitless task of trying to defeat the present sitting member for Macarthur. I shall quote from an article in that well-known international journal the Illawarra 'Mercury' of 14 January 1975. The headline states: 'Liberal Plans $40,000 Fight'. The article continues: 
A Campbelltown solicitor plans a $40,000 campaign to win Macarthur for the Liberals at the next Federal election. 
So this candidate is saying that the campaign will cost $40,000, which is what the Liberal candidate in the last Federal election spent in an endeavour to defeat the sitting member- and he wasted his money. The article goes on to say that the money will be raised from donations and free advertising space. In addition to that, $14,500 will be spent on Press, radio and television and $3,000 will be spent on the publication of an election newspaper. Here is a Liberal candidate who has funds corning to him and nobody knows the source of those funds. He is telling the public that although he is allowed to spend only $500, he will spend $40,000. 
This Government will not stand for Watergates in Australia. Huge amounts of money are being put into the funds of honourable members opposite in an endeavour to mislead the people into putting them into Government again. Within a few days in this Parliament those who are collecting these funds can stand up and say whether they are prepared to tell us where their ill-gotten gains come from or whether they wish to keep hidden their sinister controllers and the faceless men who provide their funds. I thank the honourable member for the question. The public should know that funds are being poured into the finances of the honourable members opposite from sources that are opposed to Australia's best interests and that even Liberal candidates are prepared to spend $40,000 to try to defeat Labor candidates and to defy the law because those behind them want government at any price. 

That, unless otherwise ordered, the House shall meet for the dispatch of business on each Tuesday at fifteen minutes past two o'clock p.m. and on each Wednesday and Thursday at ten o'clock a.m. 
This motion gives effect to the announcement I made yesterday that I would bring to the Parliament today a motion to cover the sittings of the House. Notice of the sitting days that have been decided upon has been distributed to honourable members. The period up until 29 May will cover 30 days of sitting and the Parliament will be sitting for 2614 hours a week. This will enable a fairly extensive coverage to be given to the matters that are to be discussed. There are very good reasons for the changes that have been made to the hours of sitting. Firstly, 1 1 February is the earliest date for 10 years on which the Parliament has met. In addition, the legislative program is fairly heavy. A number of public holidays occur in March this year. Canberra Day falls on 12 March, and honourable members might recollect that last year the Parliament sat on Canberra Day, not only causing inconvenience to those employees of the Commonwealth who desired to celebrate the holiday but also incurring considerable expense. The Easter period this year also falls during March. In view of these factors, it was felt that a break of one month would be more convenient for all concerned and would meet the convenience of honourable members. 
As Leader of the House I have had requests from members on both sides for a readjustment of the sitting days. I do not say that what is proposed is perfect; the fact of the matter is that there will undoubtedly have to be change in respect of the sittings as time goes on. We are not tied hand and foot to the system of 3 weeks on and 1 week off. These things can be varied and ought to be varied to suit circumstances. There should also be an appreciation of the fact that at the same time as getting through the business of the House honourable members from both sides have commitments in their electorates, and they can certainly do more during a month's break than they could during a week. The same argument applies to the fortnight's break that is to come later. It will give honourable members more time to circulate in their areas and meet their commitments. These proposals have no sinister purpose at all. They are based on the convenience of members and on what we consider to be appropriate in view of the difficulty in regard to holidays in March. 
Adequate time will be given for discussion. As honourable members know, there has always been a grievance day debate and general business items and private members' Bills have always been debated. We have always given the opportunity for these debates to take place since we came to office. I do not offer any criticism at this stage of the previous government's intentions. However, I would say, without any egotism, that honourable members have had more opportunity to debate matters of that nature than they have had for some years. I would hope that even more opportunities will be provided, but this can be done only when we come to some mutual arrangements in relation to sitting times which are in keeping with the size of the Parliament. The Standing Orders of this Parliament were geared to a Parliament of 75 members whereas now the Parliament is made.up of 127 members. The rules that applied in the days when the Parliament was 75 strong are still applied to a Parliament with almost double the number of members, and this does present problems. 
Honourable members opposite may say that the purpose of introducing this proposal is other than what has been stated. The Government has no desire to stifle discussion. Instead of the usual 3 weeks honourable members will have an additional week in which to criticise whatever they might desire. All in all, I think that the proposed sitting hours will be satisfactory to honourable members. I do not want to delay the House but the Government is entitled to fix sitting hours. In doing so it tries to meet the wishes of members on all sides of the Parliament. I know that honourable members have commitments such as Party meetings and the discussion of legislation in the Party rooms. I do not have to tell the House that I had long experience on the other side of the fence trying to fit in with government programs. Our Party meetings now take place on Tuesday mornings, and we get a fairly good run through when the House is sitting. The sittings of the House are meant to suit the convenience not only of members but also of the staff that work here. I refer to the Clerks and others who have to compile the records of the Parliament. Except on very odd occasions- I would say on every occasion- we would not sit past 1 1 p.m. I think this is a good rule and one to which we should try to keep. But within the confines of what has been decided on this occasion I hope that ultimately we will be able to find even better sitting hours. 
I think that the month 's break that is proposed on this occasion should be welcomed by honourable members because it will give them the opportunity of fulfilling their obligations before coming back for the remainder of the session. As I instanced in the circular I sent out to honourable members, the 30-day period is not mandatory. If the Parliament has not finished its business at the end of that time we will extend the sittings. I hope it will not be necessary, but these things happen. For instance, we have on the stocks the Family Law Bill. As there is such interest in this legislation it may be necessary to sit on a Friday to finish it, because it is legislation on which people are requesting a decision one way or the other. The 30-day sitting period which has already been decided is well up with any previous autumn sitting period. When the present Leader of the Opposition was in the Parliament as Leader of the House, the most he had the Parliament sit in an autumn session was 3 1 days and on one occasion it sat 28 days. In 1973 the Parliament sat for 34 days in the autumn period. Last year, because of the elections, we sat for only 16 days. This year it is proposed at this stage to sit for 30 days. So, all in all, we do not propose any curtailment of debate. Therefore I submit the proposal to the House for its consideration and I hope that it will be accepted by honourable members. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which the Government regards as a key element in its overall program of electoral reform, relates in the main to the limitation of electoral expenditure and to the public disclosure of the sources of funds made available to political parties and to candidates. Included in the Bill are provisions which- require the appointment of party agents by political parties and the registration thereof by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer; require the maintenance of a register of party agents by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer; require lists of all party agents and official agents to be kept in electoral offices in each State and Territory; require the filing of returns relating to electoral expenditure by registered party agents and official agents with the Chief Australian Electoral Officer within 12 weeks after an election; require returns to be open for public inspection; require the certification of returns by a registered company auditor; enable the reimbursement of auditor's fees up to a limit of $200; prohibit electoral expenditure by any person except a registered party agent or official agent, without prior written authority of the respective agent; prohibit the making of gifts, including donations, to a party or candidate except with the written authority of the registered party agent or the official agent of the candidate; require the disclosure of particulars of all gifts, including all donations, made to political parties or candidates through or with the authority of the party agents or official agents; limit the campaign expenditure of a political party, including electoral expenditure by a party's candidates in accordance with a specified formula. 
Under the formula the limit of expenditure of a political party in a House of Representatives election- held separately from a Senate election -would be based on 7.5c for every person enrolled for the division or divisions contested; that is to say, an amount of $593,740 on present enrolment for a party contesting all 127 electorates. In the case of a Senate election held alone, the permissible expenditure of a political party would be substantially less. It would be based on 1.5c for every person enrolled for the State or States contested by the party; that is to say, an amount of $ 1 16,578 on present enrolment for a party contesting the Senate election in all States. 
In the case of a referendum, the formula provides for a limit of expenditure of a political party based on lc for every person enrolled; that is to say, an amount of $77,718. Details of the formula in relation to conjoint Senate and House of Representatives elections are included in the Bill. 
The limits of expenditure presently imposed on candidates are also being varied. For the election of a senator the proposed limit is an amount of 0.2c for every elector enrolled for the State concerned, or $3,000, whichever is the greater. For an election of a member of the House of Representatives, the proposed limit is an amount equal to 5c for every elector enrolled for the division contested; that is to say, $3,250 in respect of a division comprising 65 000 electors, or $2,500 in respect of a division comprising 50 000 electors. Having regard to the importance of enforcing the observance of the proposed new expenditure provisions, the Bill prescribes penalties up to $10,000 in certain cases and up to $20,000 in other cases. 
Honourable members will note from the foregoing summary of the principal provisions, that this Bill seeks to lay down comprehensive provisions relating to the limitation not merely of expenditure by candidates, but also of aggregate expenditure by political parties sponsoring those candidates. At the present time the provisions in the Act relating to maximum permissible expenditure by individual candidates are outmoded and unrealistic, and moreover the Act does not presently limit expenditure by parties. This Bill seeks to rectify this anomalous situation. For the purpose of effectively controlling electoral expenditure by political parties and individual candidates, including candidates not sponsored by a party, the Bill's provisions reflect a general realisation that unrealistically restrictive limits on expenditure should not be imposed or be permitted to continue to exist. On the other hand, uncontrolled or undivulged expenditure opens the way to serious abuses of the electoral processes. 
As an indication of the kind of money that candidates are prepared to spend in an election campaign, let me quote from an article in the Illawarra Mercury' dated 14 January 1975. The article is headed 'LIBERAL PLANS $40,000 FIGHT'. It reads in part: 
A Campbelltown solicitor plans a $40,000 campaign to win Macarthur for the Liberals at the next Federal election. 
The campaign includes $ 1 4,500 to be spent on press, radio and television advertising. 
About $3,000 would be spent on publication of an election newspaper. 
Under the existing electoral law and procedures there is no limitation or control on the expenditure by political parties and, while there are statutory limits on expenditure by candidates, the current provisions are quite ineffective. All honourable members would know that at the present time very substantial donations are being made with the purpose of financing campaign expenditure by candidates and parties without disclosure of the sources of such donations. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
The anomalous situation whereunder no adequate account is taken of expenditure by parties, and the artifically low limits imposed upon electoral expenditure by individual candidates, are entirely unsatisfactory. The existing law stipulates that electoral expenditure by a candidate may not exceed $500 in a House of Representatives election or $ 1 ,000 in a Senate election. The existing law also requires all candidates to file a return of their electoral expenses within 8 weeks after the declaration of the poh. Yet, as honourable members well know, this requirement is generally ignored. In the electoral expenses field, unenforceable, unrealistic law is bad law. Most candidates, from whatever party, wish to observe the law in this respect, but they and the public they serve deserve a law which is realistic, clear-cut and enforceable. This proposed legislation follows an examination of the methods adopted in other democratic countries which have taken steps to reform their electoral procedures in these areas. Particular attention has been given to the experiences of the United States and Canada and in essence this Bill demonstrates the Government's willingness to benefit from recent legislative advances made by other countries in this field. 
The Government is, of course, particularly mindful of those happenings in the United States which have been characterised collectively as the Watergate affair'. Under the U.S.A. Federal Election Campaign Act 1971, laws requiring strict financial reporting of sources of campaign funds took effect on and from 7 April 1972. In Canada, the Electoral Expenses Act passed by the House of Commons on 3 January 1974 was welcomed by all major political parties. This legislation contained provisions for the disclosure of the names and addresses of all donors contributing more than $100. Also a limit is placed on the expenditure of candidates and political parties. Spending by national parties is restricted to 30c for every eligible voter. A party exceeding this expenditure is liable to a substantial fine. 
The Canadian legislation also contains provisions restricting individual candidates' expenditure. Where appropriate the Canadian approach has been taken as a useful guide in the preparation of our legislation. 
Up to the present Australia has been most fortunate in that it has not suffered any serious electoral malpractices or 'Watergates' and as Australians we tend to pride ourselves in this regard. Nevertheless, there is a real need for legislation of the kind now proposed by this Bill, not only to keep our electoral system 'honest' but also to ensure that all candidates and political parties, irrespective of their financial standing, have a fair and equitable opportunity of being represented in this Parliament. Reports that multinational corporations and other powerful organisations have been making substantial contributions to political party campaign funds in Australia highlight the need for urgent remedial legislation in this area. The Government considers it vital that this proposed legislation, which will form a basis for the regulation of the conduct of future electoral campaigns, be placed on the statute book. 
The expenditure by political parties and candidates at the 1974 Senate and House of Representatives elections on broadcasting and televising time on commercial stations alone was in the nature of $ 1.5m and in this connection I quote from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board 's 26th annual report on its operations during the year ended 30 June 1974. Paragraphs 1 8 1 , 1 82, 1 90 and 1 9 1 read, in part, as follows: 181. Apart from policy speeches, S13 hours 33 minutes of station time were purchased at a cost of $301,154 for broadcasts of political matter on behalf of parties and candidates. 182. The total time occupied by broadcasting of political matter on commercial broadcasting stations during the election period amounted to 683 hours 43 minutes and the charges for that time were $3 1 6,739. 190. Apart from the policy speeches, 123 hours 48 minutes of station time was purchased for a cost of $1,175,464 for the televising of political matter on behalf of parties and candidates. 191. The total time occupied by telecasts of political matter on commercial television stations and charges during the election period amounted to 196 hours and $ 1 ,334,680 respectively. 
In several overseas countries the burden of the cost of broadcasting and televising is partly met from the public purse and it is intended that the Government will give some consideration to this aspect before the next elections. 
I mentioned earlier that laws requiring strict financial reporting in the United States took effect on and from 7 April 1972. Honourable members may be interested to know that it was reported in the Congressional Quarterly of 6 October 1973 that fund raisers for the 1972 Nixon campaign raised $ 19.7m before that date, the amounts being collected from contributors who believed their names would never be made public. According to the report, the records revealed that the 1972 Nixon campaign effort raised a record total of $60.2m. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard an extract from the Congressional Quarterly of 6 October 1973 listing the major contributors to the 1972 presidential campaigns of Richard Nixon and George McGovern. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is: 
All. 
This information is not readily available. To provide the details requested would be a major task to which I am not prepared to allocate resources at this time. 
The details requested are not available. To maintain such information would require periodic reassessment of some 14,000 properties, which is considered to be unnecessary and would be a continuing major exercise. 
The answer to the right honourable member 's question is as follows: 
to (4) Exercises in civil defence preparedness have been conducted in some offices and buildings occupied by the Department of Services and Property in 3 states as listed hereunder: 
Western Australia- Wapet House 
An evacuation exercise to practice procedures is held annually. The last such exercise was held on 27 February 1974 and all Departmental staff, approximately 70, took part. 
South Australia-IMFC Building 
Four wardens in the 2 floors occupied by this Department took part in an exercise with wardens appointed by other tenants on 12 July 1974 to test evacuation procedures. 
Queensland- Australian Government Centre 
Building evacuation exercises have been held in this building as shown below. 

That so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent the presentation and consideration of an Australian Film Commission Bill 1975 and a Public Service Acts Amendment Bill 1975. 
Briefly,  Mr Speaker,  this is a procedural arrangement because the legislation has been before the House previously. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
I move: 
In clause 3, omit sub-section ( 1 ) of proposed section 153G, substitute the following sub-sections: 
In this section, a reference to a gift, in relation to a return, does not include a reference to a gift the value of which is less than $100 unless the value of the gift, together with the value of any other gift or gifts made by or on behalf of the same donor during the period to which the return relates, exceeds an aggregate value of $ 100. ( 1a) Within 12 weeks after the day fixed for the polling for an election, every person who was at any time the official agent of a candidate for the election shall file with the Chief Australian Electoral Officer a return in the form prescribed, setting out- 
particulars of: 
all gifts authorized by him as provided by section 151; and 
all gifts received by him on behalf of, by arrangement with, or with the concurrence of, the candidate, during that time and the names and addresses of the persons by whom the gifts were made and the amount or value of each gift; and 
particulars of all electoral expenditure authorized by him as provided by section 146 during that time, the names and addresses of the persons by whom the expenditure was incurred and the amount of the expenditure incurred by each of them. '. 
I seek leave to incorporate the explanations of the amendment in Hansard. 
I want to reply very briefly to some of the comments that have been made. Irrespective of the side of the House on which members sit I think they will agree that the debate on the Electoral Bill has been an interesting and informative one. It has shown that honourable members are keenly interested in this problem. I thank honourable members for their co-operation in terminating their speeches a little earlier than might have otherwise been the case. Let me say to put the record straight that this Bill has not been introduced for any ulterior motive. Its provisions apply to every political party and every candidate standing for office in this nation. There is no discrimination whatever. We believe that the BUI represents an attempt to end the secrecy that surrounds the funds collected not by any particular political party but by every candidate and party running for office. In effect, it will make known to those people in the community who are contributing to campaign funds what candidates are receiving. In every way, it Will make the position open to the public. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  mentioned that the present law is farcical. A candidate for the House of Representatives can spend $500 on his campaign, regardless of how big the electorate may be, and a Senate candidate may spend $1,000 on his campaign. I doubt that there is a member of this Parliament who has not spent many times that amount in election campaigns. The number of members who Will not obey the law and who will not make a return of expenditure is too great to add up. Yet I understand that since Federation no member of Parliament has been prosecuted for breaking this law. Conversely, every second citizen who breaks the law is immediately charged under the law and is expected to comply with it. Until we change this system members of this Parliament can be elected to Parliament and break that law by receiving funds donated from God knows where. We believe that in that secret way the whole of our democracy is being upset. 
This is not a socialist plan or anything of that type. Most conservative countries in the world have implemented such legislation. For instance, Canada and the United States of America have such laws. In Canada similar legislation was supported by all political parties. It was introduced by  Mr Trudeau  himself and it Will take effect. The Canadian legislation is more extravagant than our proposed legislation. The Canadian legislation gives members the right to post letters to their constituents two or three times a year and in addition enables the making of subscriptions to the campaign commitments of members. The expenditure, however, is restricted. Australia is dragging way behind on the question of party funds which can influence the opinions of candidates. 
Let me give a simple illustration of what can happen. If some chap gives a member $ 1,000 for his campaign that person would be dead unlucky if he could not get in to see the member, but if poor old BUI Smith comes in from the street wanting to see the member the member would say he was too busy to see him. However if word came through that Bill Smith had paid $1,000 into the kitty the member would get this campaign organisers to usher him in. I do not cast any reflections on honourable members but there is always the inference that donations given to parties or to members can have an influence. Now is the time to flush out any such suggestion. Any member of Parliament and any party is entitled to receive donations from any source but the amount members and parties spend should be public knowledge and everybody should know who it is that is supporting the candidate or the party. 
I am amazed at the change of opinion that is evident in the Opposition. When the Labor Party challenged the Opposition about receiving contributions from multinational corporations the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  entered the chamber and said: 'We will support this legislation'. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is on record, as mentioned by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  at the same time as saying: 'We have nothing to fear in this legislation and will make only a minor amendment to see that such donations are tax deductible'. Why the change of attitude? Members of the Country Party tell us that they are not afraid to disclose the source of their funds, but they must be ashamed if they do not want the public to know about them. 
I do not say that the Labor Party does not have a skeleton or two it would want to reveal but I suggest that this Bill gives an opportunity for all parties in Australia and for aU candidates to lock those skeletons in the cupboard and to go straight in the future. From now on, if this BUI becomes law, everybody will know the source of money that helps to elect members to this Parliament. Is the Opposition afraid to let the people of Australia know where it gets its campaign funds? If it is not ashamed of the source of those funds why should not the people sitting in the galleries of this chamber and the millions of people who are listening to me at this moment know where those funds come from? Why should the public not know these details? The Labor Party is not afraid to reveal such information. It has introduced the legislation, will support it and will see that it is carried out. If members opposite are not afraid to indicate the source of their funds they should support the legislation. 
In 1973 the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Country Party said, in effect, that they welcomed it. At that time their parties were not getting the dough because they were on the skids, but now their coffers are full. The money is coming in so they will not let the nation know where it is coming from. They should take the good with the bad. When the money is not coming in large amounts they do not mind revealing those who support them but when it is coming in, as it is now, they should likewise let the people know the source. Little did I dream that this once great party- if I might coin a phrase- opposite would ever be ashamed of the source of its campaign funds. I should like to know, for instance, who put in the $50,000 that each of the Country Party members got during the last Queensland elections. 
The honourable member who led the debate for the Opposition, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  made a speech which I would describe as extravagant, entertaining and empty. Undoubtedly he had not read the Bill and consequently was unable to advance any sound reasons for not disclosing the source of his funds. The honourable member is a top grade lawyer in the small debts court but he is out of his depth when debating electoral reform. Honourable members curtailed their speeches so I will not talk further. I conclude by suggesting that almost every member of this Parliament is breaking the present electoral law. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  said that people and members cannot be told to do this or that. The present electoral law says that a candidate for the House of Representatives can spend only $500 and a candidate for the Senate $ 1 , 000 on an election campaign but if some honourable members opposite did not spend fifty times the prescribed amount I will give 100 quid to the Liberal Party. The situation is that every member is breaking the law. Funds are being poured into all parties at different times and the public does not know their source. 
It is time that the people of this country knew what members or what parties are dominated by various interests. It is time that the sources of all funds were revealed. We do not want any Watergate in this country. We do not want a Watergate in any shape or form. The revelations of Watergate have brought to the attention of every domocratic country the need to know these things. The funds paid into political parties and to candidates must be known to the public, vouched for and restricted. Every poor man is entitled to have as much opportunity to get into Parliament as the richest man in the community has. How can anyone compete with the Liberal candidate in the Macarthur electorate who has said that he will spend $40,000, even though according to the law only $500 can be spent by an individual in his campaign. I do not care much whether he spends that sum but I think that we are entitled to know where he has obtained that money. 
I summarise the debate in this way: This is a sincere attempt by the Government of the day to make political parties reveal the sources of their funds and to require candidates to do the same. I am ashamed to think that the Leader of the Liberal Party  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  have backed down from the welcome that they gave to these proposals about 1 8 months ago. But I say to the Australian people that this legislation represents a forward step in line with thinking in democratic countries which seek to keep politics free of the implications and imputations which go with money power poured into party funds. We have had great records here as parties and individuals of high integrity in our parliaments. We can make that record better by knowing where party funds come from. We can give all people the opportunity to be elected, knowing full well that their expenditures, incomes and other related matters will be known. Above all else, we can take the great democratic step forward in this country and keep in line with other great democracies which have realised how necessary this requirement is. 
Question put- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is in order for political parties to collect funds at public rallies and they have not to disclose the source of those funds. It is strange that this question should have been asked of me today because I received in my mail an interesting little document headed 'Liberal Rally', which says: 'Randwick Racecourse- Sunday, 16 February 1975- Live Entertainment- The Buffaloes and Boa Dicea Groups- Pop Artists'. It also says: 'Speakers- Liberal Leader Bill Snedden- Premier of N.S.W. Tom Lewis- and  Mr 40  per cent, the Leader of the Australian Country Party'. It also says: 'Take Away Foods, Soft Drinks, Tea and Coffee are available. Bring a cushion- impressionable'. I understand that the cushions came straight from Dublin. It also says to bring a litter bag and to leave the course clean. 
I understand that the meeting was held at Randwick Racecourse, which is on hallowed ground because  His  Holiness the Pope appeared there. I also understand that there have been some famous thoroughbreds and a good collection of 'dead-uns' on the same course. But it was a wet day and the Leader of the Liberal Party found that it was much more difficult to get people to follow him over wet grass than it was over hot coals or into the Valley of Death. I also understand that one thing missing was Leilanithe only asset of the Liberal Party, which is owned by the Honourable Andrew Sharp Peacock. Leilani is a champion thoroughbred but, like the Leader of the Opposition, is a bad performer on a wet track. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1, 2, 3 and 4) Following the amendment to the Lands Acquisition Act in December 1973 the acquisition and disposal of all leases by the Australian Government became the responsibility of the Department of Services and Property. I have delegated some of that responsibility to statutory bodies where I have considered it desirable to do so. 
The information on all buildings which are unused ata particular time is not assembled normally because of its transient nature. 
As has been explained to the House many times, spaceis unused for a variety of reasons. For example, newly leased space requires to be partitioned before use and this may take several months where large areas are involved. In recent times the Department of Services and Property has been successful in avoiding much of the dead rent which normally arises from partitioning by seeking lay outs and commissioning partitioning before practical completion of new buildings. 
Another reason for unused space arises from the need to consolidate fragmented departments to achieve greater economics. Some areas become vacant pending preparation for alternative use, termination of the lease, and allocation of space to particular departments. 
Prior to December 1972 much of the leased space in capital cities and elsewhere, including electoral offices for Members of the House, was very unsatisfactory and sub-standard and had to be vacated whilst the lease negotiated by the previous government was still in operation. 
The honourable member will know that the AuditorGeneral and the Public Accounts Committee have been very much alive to the question of payment of 'dead rent' for unused buildings, which is a feature of all leasing enterprises, private or public. Details of the major unused premises as at 30 June were referred to by the Auditor-General in his Report and much of the relevant information has already been supplied to the House and therefore is available in Hansard. 
For the reasons given I am not prepared to authorise the time and expense involved in compiling all the information sought. If the honourable member would indicate his interest in any particular building, I will be happy to provide him with the information which he requires. 
Anti-smoking Campaign  (Question No. 1207) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (5) I refer the right honourable member to my reply to Question No. 1192 asked by the honourable member for Gwydir,  Mr R.  J. D. Hunt. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (4) (a) The following Australian Government offices have been completed since 2 December 1972: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Postmaster-General's, Services and Property, Social Security 
Labor and Immigration, Postmaster-General's, Services and Property, Social Security 
Apart from existing departments in Shepparton my Department has received advice that the Australian Legal Aid Office intends to establish a branch office in that centre. In addition, the Department of Defence has plans for the establishment of a recruiting centre, and the Department of Agriculture intends to establish a fruit inspection facility in Shepparton. 
Yes. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Minerals (Submerged Lands) (Royalty) Bill 1974 (No. 2) as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I accept the explanation that has been given,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I think it is only reasonable that the Bill be recommitted for a vote on the third reading. I seek the leave of the House, therefore, to move a motion to rescind the vote of the House on the third reading. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill 1974 (No. 2) as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
by leave- I desire to inform the House that it is proposed that the House sit on Friday week, 28 February 1975, at 9.30 a.m. for the sole purpose of debating the Family Law Bill. I shall move the formal motion to effect the sitting of the House on that day next week. By way of explanation I advise that approximately 40 honourable members are still wishing to speak in the debate on the second reading and that to permit a reasonable time for the conclusion of that stage of the Bill special arrangements need to be made. I am making this brief statement at this time so that honourable members can make their arrangements bearing in mind the fact that the House will probably be sitting for 4 days next week. 
It is not proposed on that day to take any vote, even if the debate should conclude. It is desired- to give every honourable member an opportunity of taking part in the final vote. As far as I am concerned and as far as the Government is concerned, no vote will be taken on that day. If the debate concludes on the Friday- there is no guarantee that it will, of course- I can assure honourable members that no snap vote will be taken. It has been our decision that should something like that occur the vote should be recommitted because every honourable member should have the opportunity on a normal sitting day to participate in the final vote on this measure. 
-No, it will be formally- 
No. The House can debate the matter when I formally move the motion. I am just making an announcement now. Honourable members will appreciate that this legislation is extensive. I think nearly every member of the Parliament wishes to speak to it Without going into the pros and cons of the matter raised by the right honourable member, that can be discussed when I move the formal motion. 
The amount of money expendable in an election campaign by a member of the House of Representatives is $500 and by a senator $1000. There is no restriction on the amount of money which parties can spend. Recently the Government sought to make public donations to political parties and also to increase to a reasonable amount expenditure allowed in an election campaign. Evidently there are people in this country who do not want the source of their campaign funds to be known or the amount of money allowed to be spent on an election campaign to be restricted. They do not even want the provisions of the Electoral Act brought up to date in a practical way. The fact that there is no restriction on the amount of money which political parties can spend in an election campaign is exemplified in an article in the 'National Times' of 24 February 1975 in these terms: 
Treasurer Doug? 
The Country Party has been making distinctly sympathetic noises to some foreign mining companies which feel they are being squeezed by the new nationalism of the Whitlam Government. 
The article continues: 
No promises are being made but the miners are being told that the attitudes that applied to foreign investment preDecember 1972, might make a comeback under a Country Party influenced coalition government. 
In return for this sympathy, the party would undoubtedly be grateful for campaign funds- and a flow of new foreign investment when Doug Anthony is the new Minerals and Energy Minister. 
Arising from this, at least one prominent business man with close contacts with the Liberal Party has told Bill Snedden that the post for Doug Anthony in a coalition Cabinet should not be minerals czar but Treasurer. 
There, so the theory goes, the opportunity for pork barreling is less because of the financial restraints imposed oil u Treasurer. 
This financial journal implies, in effect, that funds are coming into the Country Party so that when the Country Party comes into government it will, for services rendered, be subject to the dictates of those who contributed the funds. It is no wonder that in this Parliament recently the Country Party voted against the proposal to disclose the source of campaign funds; no wonder the Liberal Party joined the Country Party in that stand. It is interesting to note that yesterday the Opposition in this place indicated that it will vote against the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill and that the Opposition in the Senate voted against the proposal to divulge the source of party funds. It is no wonder that honourable members opposite want to hide from the people the source of their campaign funds and want no restriction on the amount of money that is allowed to be spent in an election campaign. Members of the Country Party and the Liberal Party are afraid to reveal the source of their funds. Undoubtedly those funds must be flowing in in great amounts. This is apparent from the fact that in 1973 the Leader of the Opposition said that he would vote for the proposal to divulge the source of campaign funds, and the Leader of the Country Party said that he too would vote for the proposal. Now that the coffers are overflowing with secret funds they' voted against the proposition in this Parliament the other day and repudiated their intention. The Australian people should know that if and when in the foreseeable future, or the far distant future, honourable members opposite become the government, the new Treasurer will be a man who has taken funds from mining interests but will not reveal them and will be legislating in their interests. 
by leave- I regret that it is necessary for me to make an explanation in connection with additional staff assistance to members of Parliament, but I do so because of certain misleading and false reports which have appeared in the daily newspapers in most States. Yesterday the Government approved of a proposal that each senator and member of the House of Representatives be permitted to engage additional assistance as required in their electoral office within the financial limitation of an annual amount not exceeding the base salary payable to an electorate secretary, which at this stage is $7,353 per annum. The provision of this extra assistance will be available from 1 March 1975, and an amount of $2,500 will be available to each senator and member for the balance of the financial year 1 974-75 for this employment purpose. 
The type of electorate assistance required and the personnel selected will be a matter for decision by the individual senator or member. This is a long overdue reform as the staff entitlement of a member has not been increased for more than 30 years- as a matter of fact, since December 1944. I am disturbed, however, to have seen newspaper reports and to have heard over the radio- unfortunately that includes the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the national service- that this is an additional personal allowance for members. These statements, of course, are completely false and without any foundation. It is not an allowance to a member of this Parliament. The proposal provides in blunt terms for additional staff for members who will be paid by the Government under Public Service conditions. If the money is not used or taken up for employment purposes it will revert to the 
Treasury. Consequently, the statement that members of Parliament are to receive an additional allowance must not go unchallenged. 
I am also disturbed by an article which appeared in today's Sydney 'Sun' under the name of Neil O'Reilly. At least he signed his name, and that is about all that can be said of the article. Under the heading 'M.Ps Wives $7,500 Jobs 'it states: 
Some Federal M.Ps plan to employ their wives as thennew research assistants at $7,500 a year. 
They say this will be one way of getting a pay rise. 
I regret that I have to give publicity to this article, but I think that it is as well to put what I have to say on the record in order to show the type of journalists who associate in the Press Gallery in this Parliament, enjoy all the privileges and write drivel like this. The article continues: 
The Government yesterday agreed to allow each of the 187 M.Ps and Senators to employ a research assistant. 
They will be able to hire a full-time secretarial worker on a $7,500 a year salary or a pan-time assistant paid at a higher rate. 
But the amount they will be allowed will still be limited to $7,500. 
Several M.Ps - 
Several', mind you, it does not mention any of them -  claimed today the new staff arrangements were an attempt by the Government to stop pressure for a further pay rise this year. 
Quite frankly, I have not got that in mind. It continues: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  is opposed to any pay rise because he has appealed for wage restraint. 
A group of members - 
A group', mind you -  said today there was no embargo on who they could employ as their extra staff. 
That is correct, but I wonder who the group of members is. It is marvellous how these groups of members are always about to make statements for articles like this. The article continues: 
One said he would be able to employ his wife to perform electoral work. 
-Who was it? The honourable member for Griffith is the only one who is exempted. The rest of us could be charged v/ith having said that. The fact is that the article said that one member said that. No names are mentioned; there is just innuendo. The article continues: 
She already does this, answering the phone and representing me at functions I cannot attend while Parliament is sitting, ' he said. 
If I could put her on the payroll she will be getting paid for all the work she now does for nothing, ' he added. 
Another MP - 
Another one, mind you -  said that several Senators already employed their wives as private secretaries. 
When I saw this article this afternoon I made a quick check, and so far as I have been advised by my Department to this stage, that statement also is without foundation. I will admit that I did not have time to make a thorough check, but no member of this Parliament has advised me that he intends to employ his wife in this regard. The article continues: 
There was no reason why MPs should not use this new opportunity to employ their, own wives. 
I will not go further into the article, but I ask leave of the House to incorporate the balance of the article in Hansard. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to oppose the motion - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to speak in opposition - 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
-I move: 
1 ) That the House, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at half-past nine o'clock a.m., and 
That so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent the House, unless otherwise ordered, giving precedence over all other business for that day to the Family Law Bill 1974. 
I speak briefly on this matter to outline to honourable members that the purpose of this extra sitting day is to give those honourable members who are still to speak in the debate on the second reading of the Family Law Bill and the amendment moved thereto the time to do so. I gave some forewarning of the possible need for additional days for such matters as the Family Law Bill when the days and hours of sitting were debated earlier in this session and also when I made a brief statement on this matter last Thursday. The motion provides for the House to meet tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. and to deal solely with the Family Law Bill. I hope that all speakers on the list for the Bill can speak tomorrow and the House can be adjourned by approximately 4.30 p.m. I also indicate to the House that no vote on the Bill will be taken tomorrow and that the opportunity will be given later in the sittings on an ordinary sitting day for honourable members to make their decision even if the debate should finish tomorrow. 
This Bill has created, as honourable members know, great public interest. The Bill contains a total of about 123 clauses. I think there are 40 to 50 amendments already circulated and proposed to be moved in the Committee stage. It is a Bill on which probably many more honourable members will want to express themselves. The practical situation is that it will be impossible to debate this measure as it should be debated in the ordinary business time of the Parliament. Not only will tomorrow be one of those extra sitting days that may be necessary but there may be others before the session finishes. I hope therefore to receive the co-operation of honourable members in this proposal as I feel this Bill is of such importance and has created such interest amongst the public that this Parliament should at the earliest opportunity express its views one way or the other. It is true that tomorrow there will not be any question time but in view of the way in which honourable members opposite used that time this morning I do not think they will miss it much. All those goody-goodies opposite who always obey the  Speaker  will not miss question time because they have on each occasion endeavoured to disrupt it. Come what may, I believe that tomorrow is a day that should be set aside exclusively for this Bill. I do not intend to delay the House. 
I can only assume that the honourable member who interjected does not want to express his point of view on the Bill and does not want to debate it. In any case, I do not intend to hold up the business of the House on this matter. I have formally moved the motion and I hope that it will be carried unanimously. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
So far as can be ascertained, Eire, Malta and Papua-New Guinea are the only countries which currently use optional preferential marking of ballot-papers. 

 - Mr Speaker, if it were not so serious it of the Liberal Party talking about principles and conventions, because ever since that grim day 2 December 1972 when the Liberal Party was turned out of office after 23 years in government, the members of the Liberal Party have not accepted the verdict of the people that they are no longer in government. Since that date their tactics in this Parliament have been to cause disruption, take points of order, make ridicule, create disorder and launch concentrated attacks on the conventions and the Standing Orders of this House. Recently we saw a major conspiracy throughout Australia. In the New South Wales Parliament the New South Wales Liberal Premier broke the longest standing convention in Australia's history in regard to the replacement of a senator. Members of the Liberal Party put on a great blue in this Parliament. In the South Australian Parliament the Liberal Leader was thrown out, and I think in the Queensland Parliament the members of the Liberal Party put up another rort. The members of the Liberal Party sought to distract from the actions of the New South Wales Premier all the concentrated publicity that would have been given to those actions. Members of the Liberal Party behaved like highly paid larrikins in this great forum of the national Parliament. It is said that the other day I should have moved for the suspension of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  and that that caused what followed. I have not always moved for the suspension of members when they have been named by the  Speaker.  In my generous and good hearted way I have generally given the member concerned the chance to withdraw. Consequently, it is completely wrong to say that on every occasion I have moved for the suspension of the member named by the  Speaker.  Between 1973 and 1975, 16 Opposition members have been named by the 

 Speaker. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has been named on 2 occasions. What a great example he is of the dignity of the Parliament and of all that goes with it. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has been expelled only 5 times, and if he had got his desserts he should have been expelled a dozen times. These are the people who tell us that there is no dignity on the Government side of this House. I repeat that 16 Opposition members have been named by the  Speaker  between 1973 and 1975, and each of them was expelled after, in most instances, I had given the honourable member concerned the opportunity to apologise. I wonder whether the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  would have jumped up with the speed for suspension if the Leader of the Country Party had been the member concerned. We would not have dragged the motion out of him with a tractor if it had been the Leader of the Country Party who was involved the other day. On every occasion a member has been expelled after having been named by the  Speaker,  every honourable member opposite has voted against the motion for suspension. Now they talk about how they are always the upholders of the dignity of the Chair and all that goes with it. If honourable members opposite had really thought that the honourable member for Hindmarsh should have been expelled after having been named correctly by the  Speaker  will they tell me why, on the 16 occasions on which Opposition members have been named by the  Speaker  during the time of this Government, they are listed as having voted against the motion for the suspension of the honourable members involved? They know that they have one law for themselves and another law for honourable members on the Government side. There are instances of this happening again and again. I ask the honourable member for New England to tell me whether he would have come out and moved the motion for suspension if the Leader of the Country Party had been the member involved the other day. 
As I have said, ever since honourable members opposite became the Opposition there has been disruption unlimited in this chamber. Let us look at this business of personal explanations. For instance, on 26 February the last 3 columns of Hansard were taken up by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in making a personal explanation. On 25 February he took up 2 columns of Hansard in making a personal explanation. On 20 February the 'new leader'- I use inverted commas- of the Liberal Party, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  took up only one column of Hansard to make a personal explanation. He does not say much, he says it shortly, and you know that he has come and gone. On 19 February,  Mr Snedden  again took up 2 columns of Hansard in making a personal explanation. On 10 February  Mr Snedden  was absent, so  Mr Sinclair  took up a column of Hansard in making a personal explanation. On 13 February the Leader of the Country Party took up nearly 2 columns of Hansard in making a personal explanation about the price of oil that he wanted to increase by about 40 per cent. On 12 February the Leader of the Country Party took up another Ite columns of Hansard in making a personal explanation. On 1 1 February he took up another column of Hansard in making a personal explanation. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has stated, on 27 February, in the course of  Mr Hayden  's reply, interjections took up 4 columns of Hansard and points of order took up 9% columns of Hansard- 2 te times as long as that taken up by the answer to the question. Is not this organised contempt for the Parliament and all that goes with it? It is no wonder that the members of the public are fed up to the neck with honourable members opposite and realise that they do not appreciate the dignity of the Parliament. 
This motion today is not aimed at the Prime Minister; it is a save Snedden motion. Everybody knows that if there had not been the upset in this House last week the Leader of the Opposition would have been voted out of office today. Everybody knows that the most disappointed man in this Parliament is the honourable member for Wannon because today was to be his hour of glory. He finds now that the failing Leader of the Opposition is fighting for survival. That is why honourable members opposite have had to bring forward this motion today. Honourable members opposite have put the Leader of the Opposition on show today, and all the time I could see by the smirk on the face of the honourable member for Wannon that he is saying to himself: 'Would not I be a lot better? I look better, I stand taller, I talk more intelligently. You have seen what he can do. Give me a go'. In a week or so there may well be a motion brought forward in the party room to remove the Leader of the Opposition. Today, in my generous way, I gave the Leader of the Opposition an extension of time to enable him to complete his speech and, to use his own expression, I think he stuffed it. 
In this Parliament the Country Party seeks by motions of this sort to hide the disunity that exists in the ranks of honourable members opposite. 
We know that the Country Party is moving into Tasmania and that the Tasmanian people are standing by to repel boarders because it is bad enough having the Country Party on the mainland without having it in that lovely State of Tasmania. We find also that the Country Party is going into South Australia to try to distract attention from the disunity that exists in that State and to take the minds of the people ofl' the rigging of electoral boundaries and things of that nature for which the Country Party is famous. The members of the Country Party want to take the minds of the people off all those things that the Country Party is doing to undermine the prestige, if you can say that, of the Leader of the Opposition and those who sit opposite. Things are getting desperate on the other side of the House. The Country Party is even forming a branch in the Woden Valley in Canberra, and that is kicking out into the bush a long way, is it not? The Country Party has gone into Tasmania and Western Australia, and I am scared stiff that it will form a branch in Newtown. The Opposition Parties are riddled with dissension. That is why motions of this type come forward again and again in this Parliament endeavouring to discredit the greatest political leader that this country has had, that is, the present Prime Minister who leads the Australian Government. 
I mention these matters in this respect:  Mr Speaker,  was it not a half-hearted attempt at a censure today against the Prime Minister? I was a bit upset. I thought I might have been included in the motion. But the Opposition parties limited it to the Prime Minister only. As honourable members have seen, the Opposition parties failed lamentably to force home their case because they had no case against him. There are precedents, which I will not go into now, in respect of events occurring with respect to Speakers. Precedents show that on occasions it does not necessarily follow that a member is named in response to what has happened or what has been said by the Chair. No doubt exists that these things do occur. On one occasion, the then Leader of the Government was named. But nothing came of it. Consequently, a precedent exists in that respect. What honourable members opposite have claimed with respect to action by the  Speaker  does not necessarily follow. 
In this respect, we are talking about conventions. Conventions are all right for the Liberal Party when they suit it. But when they do not, the Liberal Party throws the book away. I ask those Liberals who sit opposite today whether they will say that they agree with the Leader of the Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  in his statement that  Mr 
Lewis should have broken the convention regarding the election of a senator to replace the senator who had left the other place? Do Liberals opposite agree with that statement? Do they agree with the breaking of that convention? To his credit, my distinguished friend the lawyer from Moreton  (Mr Killen)  does not agree with the breaking of such conventions. 
Fancy members of the Country Party talking about conventions. Good heavens above, honourable members know as well as I do that members of the Country Party have broken every convention applying to any aspect of this Parliament. In this country, conventions matter to the Country Party, particularly its Leader, only when they suit the Country Party. Therefore, the amendment moved by the Prime Minister condemning the Leader of the Country Party and the Leader of the Opposition is the only motion which should be passed by the Parliament on this issue. 
I will go so far as to say that in the long period that I have been a member of this Parliament I have never seen an Opposition that has sought to disrupt the affairs of the Parliament as have those who sit opposite today. If honourable members want to disrupt the Parliament, which is bad enough, they ought to do so within the Standing Orders and not act like a disorganised rabble trying to hold up the business of the Parliament simply for the sake of political gain. 
I believe that this motion is one which should not have been moved. It has no substance. The disruption which occurred last week was caused entirely by those who sit opposite. In every possible way, the full responsibility for any event which has occurred in this Parliament and which the public might not like lies at the feet of those who sit opposite because they are seeking to make certain that this Parliament does not work. They are determined that the  Speaker,  whoever he might be, will not get a fair go if they have anything to do with it. 
The leaders of this band are those who sit in the Country Party corner. Why, on one occasion I saved even the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England from being evicted for disorderly conduct. This behaviour is not confined to any one section but is an endeavour to upset the working of this Parliament. 

 Mr Speaker, I believe that the Prime Minister deserves the confidence of the Australian people. He has given great leadership to this nation. In the face of the tremendous difficulties involved in working on behalf of the Australian people, the 
Prime Minister must put up with frivolous motions such as this one introduced into this House to hide the disunity which exists and to try to save the present Leader of the Liberal Party. This Government will have nothing to do with the motion. Having said so much, I believe that the Parliament should vote on this great issue. Therefore, I formally move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
I declare that the Australian Housing Commission Bill is an urgent Bill. 
-I move: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bill be as follows: 
for the remainder of the Committee stage, until 9 p.m. this day; 
for the remaining stages, until 9.10 p.m. this day. 
This Bill has been already been discussed for a considerable time- from memory, for the best part of 6 hours already. It is obvious tonight that honourable members opposite are determined not to let this important legislation pass but to put on a filibuster. After voting unanimously against the second reading of the Bill they now have the temerity to seek to move amendments in the Committee stage. They are either for it or against it. What is the good of moving amendments in the Committee stages when they are against the Bill lock, stock and barrel? The public of Australia ought to know that members of the Opposition are just trying to hold up important housing legislation that the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has endeavoured to have passed through this Parliament. 
Tonight members of the Opposition are not only endeavouring to hold up the legislation, they are also delaying important improvements to be provided by this housing legislation- in a Bill with which they said they wanted nothing whatever to do. Every amendment moved tonight would be just a delaying tactic. There is no objective behind them in any shape or form. If members of the Opposition were sincere in their approach they would have passed the second reading of the Bill and sought to move amendments in the Committee stages. But the fact that they have committed themselves as an Opposition shows that they are opposed to decent housing legislation for the Australian people. 
That is the way they voted on the second reading. Had they been sincere they would have accepted the second reading and have endeavoured to amend the legislation in the Committee stages. 
In view of the Opposition's approach it would serve no purpose to allow this Parliament to consider the Bill at great length tonight. I mention again- I speak from memory- that the best part of 6 hours has already been spent on the second reading stage of this Bill. Now tonight we are told, under the false pretence of wishing to assist the Australian people with housing, that the Opposition wants to move amendments to the Bill in the Committee stages. Members of the Opposition know as well as I do that no matter whether we carry the amendments they will vote against the third reading. So what is the purpose of taking up the time of the Parliament in connection with these matters when that precisely is the intention of those who sit opposite? 
The Government has given the Opposition a very fair go in debating this legislation. Every honourable member who wanted to speak on the second reading was given the opportunity. The debate was not curtailed in any way. The Minister had the right of reply. Now, in the Committee stages, on a measure that members of the Opposition say they are opposed to lock stock and barrel I repeat it again- they are seeking to amend it. Do not tell me the Opposition will not vote against the third reading even if the clauses are amended. The real truth of the matter is that the Opposition does not want the Australian people to have decent housing legislation. It does not want them to have houses. It would like to see them suffering without houses. That is why it is opposing this legislation in the Committee stages. 
The Government reluctantly takes this step of declaring the Bill urgent. We think the Australian people are entitled to decent housing and good legislation. No Minister has been more patient with those opposite than the Minister for Housing and Construction. He let members of the Opposition take full time in the course of the second reading debate. He answered all their objections, good or bad as they might have been, and not only answered them but answered them most effectively. No matter what the Minister put up, the Opposition always had some other proposition. I should like someone opposite to tell me why the Opposition voted against this Bill in its entirety in the second reading stage and now seeks to amend it in the Committee stages. Is it that members of the Opposition have had a death bed repentance- they are sorry for what they did? 
What if we carry some of the Opposition amendments? Will the Opposition want the second reading recommitted? Why it is a fantasy. Any honourable member opposite who wanted to speak on the second reading could have had his 20 minutes. The debate was not gagged or curtailed. The fact of the matter is that tonight the Opposition is filibustering. It wants to hold up the legislation for no reason at all with a lot of phoney" amendments. The Minister has blown to smithereens the propositions it has put up. They are not practical, they are not factual and cannot be carried out. If I want good housing legislation I will go to the Minister, not to those who sit opposite. In 23 years they had their chance and people were lucky to get an outhouse, let alone a decent house to live in. The Opposition had its chance for 23 years and now in 23 minutes it thinks it can reform society. I regret that it is necessary to propose this allotment of time and to move that the Bill be declared urgent. It is necessary only because of the tactics adopted by the Opposition which are preventing the Minister for Housing and Construction from putting through legislation to give a decent housing scheme to the Australian people. 

 - Mr Speaker, I am just about sick and tired of this. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is always taking away the character of people in this Parliament and I think it is nearly time that the people of this country had a bit of an idea of what his ancestors did- behaviour which he is so easily following today. I have here an article from the 'Daily Mirror' of Wednesday, 27 March 1974. It states under the heading 'Bizarre lottery could not save bank from ruin': 
Early in 1849 the citizens of Sydney were intrigued to learn that the colony's first patriot, William Charles Wentworth, was to dispose of certain of his land by lottery. Twenty-three of his friends, a newspaper announced, had persuaded him to do this so he could devote more time to the welfare of NSW, a task of dedication that was already placing a great strain on him. All who admired William Charles Wentworth were impressed by his decision to sacrifice the land so that he might carry on with his works of public service. 
Some revised their opinion however when a rival newspaper pointed out that the lottery would net Wentworth the then enormous sum of $120,000 at a time when land sales were sluggish. 
The writer went on to flay Wentworth as a ' humbug' and a breeches pocket patriot,' trying to 'pick the pockets of the people.' 
Challenged by the law, Wentworth 's friends closed the lottery office they had opened and returned the ticket money. They said they only proposed the lottery to test its legality. 
The article continues: 
Fresh in the people's minds was his 1839 attempt, when New Zealand was briefly annexed to New South Wales, to persuade seven simple Maori chiefs to sell him and his cronies millions of acres in return for $400 in cash and $400 a year for life. 
Actually the Wentworth plan never succeeded for a furiously angry Governor Gipps banned it. 
Workers, too, particularly the thousands of immigrant artisans, looked sourly on his demand that more convicts be sent from England. 
We are threatened with being deprived of the only stay on which we can prosper- cheap and efficient labour' Wentworth had shouted when Britain suspended transportation to New South Wales in 1 840. 
His ancestors wanted the convicts to keep coming to Australia to give cheap labour. They are the type of ancestors that he had. 
Yes, my ancestors were amongst the convicts that he wanted to bring to work for him. That is what annoys me more than anything else. The honourable member stands up as such a righteous individual in this House, but his ancestors wanted the Irish and others to be brought out to Australia- to be transported here for them. The article stated: 
We are threatened with being deprived of the only stay on which we can prosper- cheap and efficient labour' Wentworth had shouted when Britain suspended transportation to New South Wales in 1840. 
These are the ancestors of the honourable gentleman. These are the people whom he holds up to us today. The honourable member is following nobly in their steps today. The article continues: 
Since then he had campaigned for a resumption of transportation which would bring further distress to the thousands of free migrants already unemployed. 
This gives an indication of the ancestry of the honourable member which he is following so proudly today. 
He said that he was absent from the Parliament last week. I will tell honourable members why he was absent. He was in court being sued by a Labor member of Parliament for defamation of character, for which he apologised abjectly. He apologised for having defamed a member on this side of the Parliament. He was in court last week, where he ought to be, apologising to one of the members ofthe Government to the people for having defamed a member of this Parliament, irrespective of the effect that that defamation might have on his character. The honourable member, of all people, should be the last to bring to this Parliament any claim of righteousness and dignity and all that goes with it because he is as phoney as he looks. I wish he would run as a candidate for the Senate because senators might then see the kind of people we have to put up with in this chamber. 
I do not mind the honourable member because I can put up with freaks like him. He does not worry me unduly. 
I withdraw the word 'freak'. The honourable member constantly stands in this place and tells honourable members how righteous they should be. The actions of his ancestors give him no recommendation. He has followed them right along the line. I am sick and tired of an individual who comes into the Parliament and tells us what we ought to do when in the courts of New South Wales he has had to apologise for his conduct. As was mentioned in the Parliament today, he is a very tame cat when he has to go into court to substantiate the wild allegations he makes constantly against Labor Party members and others in the community. It is all very well to defame people in this House, but when he had to front up  to  the courts of this country recently he was found in his right colours. The honourable member is untruthful. He had to apologise. He defamed a member - 
I will, but I will produce the proof in due course. So that might correct the record. I will produce the apology that the honourable member made in public court last week to the honourable member who sued him. 
I withdraw the remarks, but I say that the House is entitled to see the nature ofthe apology. I think that I can produce it next week. It will make interesting reading in view of what the honourable member said tonight. Honourable members will then know that the honourable member for Mackellar who so constantly defames people did not front up so nicely in the court in New South Wales last week. 

 - Mr Speaker, as the honourable member has broken an arrangement I move: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The question must be put without debate. The question is: 'That the honourable member be not further heard. ' 
Question put: 
That the honourable member for Balaclava be not further heard. 
The House divided:  (Mr Speaker-Hon. G. G. D. Scholes) 

 - Mr Speaker, if I may claim your indulgence on the third reading of this Bill for a few moments, I should like to express my thanks to the honourable members who have spoken on this important aspect of parliamentary representation. Like other honourable members I appreciate the assistance that there will be. I regret that the Press has not treated the question fairly and objectively, as was mentioned by honourable members opposite, but has sought to degrade it under the impression that it was an extra $7,000 rise for members ofthe Parliament. That is completely false. Federal members with huge electorates or city electorates who are assisted by 2 secretaries are still a long way under the American standard of about 16 staff. I am grateful for the comments that have come forward and I shall try to consider constructive suggestions that might improve the way in which such assistance could be utilised in country districts. Naturally I have enjoyed these speeches more than any others in the debate. I take this opportunity of congratulating the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  on his win just before lunch. I sincerely trust the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  wins the Flynn pre-selection ballot under the new boundaries. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second rime. 
This Bill is identical with that which I introduced on 13 November 1974 and which was passed without amendment on 25 November 1974. It was introduced into the Senate on 26 November 1974 and that chamber rejected it on 28 November 1974. The Senate's rejection of the identical Bill in November last must be viewed in the light of the fact that many of the basic provisions of the Bill were similar to those in the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1971 presented to this House by the then Minister for the Interior, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  on 3 1 March 1971, and read a second time. Thus the Opposition's attitude to the earlier Bill can only be described as incomprehensible. 
In the circumstances it would be idle of me to reiterate what I said in this House last November. I therefore confine myself to mentioning only 3 facets of the Bill. First, taken overall, the proposals in this Bill are intended to allow for a speedier finalisation of Federal election results and to improve voting facilities for electors. Second, the Bill introduces some new or changed procedures and corrects some obvious defects in the existing electoral law. Third, it proposes consequential amendments of the Senate Elections Act 1903-1948, the Senate Elections Act 1966 and the Representation Act 1903-1973. Three months have now elapsed since the Senate rejected an identical measure which I now introduce again. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That Government Business shall take precedence over General Business tomorrow. 
It is with some reluctance that I have moved that motion. The Government has no desire to interfere with private members' business. As a matter of fact, the Government's record in that regard is exceedingly good. But, as I desire to obtain the co-operation of the Opposition in regard to this motion, I do not intend to be political in any way. That, of course, is not unusual for me; but tonight I hope to excell myself by my courteous approach to the shadow Leader of the House in regard to this matter. 
The reason I have asked for Government Business to be given precedence over General Business tomorrow and the co-operation of the Opposition is to enable the Family Law Bill to be brought on for debate for another period of time approximating 3 hours. Thirty-nine speakers have already spoken on the Family Law Bill and 3 1 speakers are still listed to speak. The average speaking time of those who have spoken so far has been 17 minutes. It will be seen, therefore, that the getting of a vote on even the motion for the second reading of the Bill would present great problems. Even if we were to debate the measure consistently and to postpone the consideration of all other business it would still take a considerable amount of time to conclude the debate. Last Friday, for instance, we debated the measure all day and 19 speakers participated in the debate. I thought that it was a very interesting day and that it was one which was carried on in a very reasonable way. That shows the position in which we find ourselves and the problems with which we are faced. 
There is a tremendous amount of public interest in this Bill. Although 3 1 speakers are still listed to speak, I think that it is possible that if time permitted everyone in the Parliament might well want to speak on the Family Law Bill. We are faced with the problem, therefore, that we have to take the opportunity that presents itself tomorrow in the course of the period set aside for Government Business to debate it or we may well be faced with the possibility of having to sit, say, every Friday until the debate on it is concluded. It may even be that we will have to set aside the whole business of the House for a given time in order to debate and bring this measure to finality. 
I do not know about that. We have been putting through some very good Bills. But this one, although it involves a non-Party issue, seems to have created more interest than all the other Bills. I do not know whether it is because there are many people who are interested in obtaining a divorce, but there is tremendous interest in the Bill. I hope that at my stage in life none of the provisions of the Bill will apply to me because I do not know anybody else who would have me. I might say that my wife often says that whoever gets me ought to send me back. But even with the setting aside of these additional times there will be great difficulties presented. The point I am making is that acceptance of this motion would permit roughly 3 hours of debate on the Bill tomorrow. If honourable members were to heed your request,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  about the curtailing of their speeches we might well be able to hear tomorrow all those who desire to speak to the motion for the second reading ofthe Bill. 
The Government Party discussed this matter at a meeting the other day. At that meeting it was decided to set aside this time. It was also decided that if any honourable member desired to move at any stage 'That the question be now put' it would be quite right for him to do so but that there would be no Party vote on that motion. In other words, if anybody were to move 'That the question be now put' there would be an entirely free vote insofar as the supporters of the Government are concerned as to whether it should or should not be put. But the general desire was that this should not be done in the sense that it was hoped that everybody who desired to do so would have an opportunity to speak on the Bill 
Without further comment I point out that I have formally moved this motion and express my regret that this has had to be done. It is the first time since we have been in Government that we have had to suspend a private members' day, although at times honourable members opposite have moved certain motions on that day. I wish to convey to the House the impression that this is for the very express purpose of discussing the Family Law Bill in relation to which I suppose it could be said that there is unprecedented interest in the community as every honorable member has been inundated with various points of view. I think that it is in the common good of the public and the members of this Parliament to dispose of the legislation one way or another at the earliest possible time. That is the reason why I have moved this motion tonight. 
in reply- I think that the only legislation that the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  would not put off to enable the Family Law Bill to be debated would be legislation dealing with the price of wheat or wool or chaff or with other matters concerning primary industry. The Government, as a government, has no intention of curtailing debate on the Family Law Bill. 
As I mentioned earlier, if the gag is moved by a member from either side of the House tomorrow, so far as Government supporters are concerned there will be an entirely free vote on that question. At the conclusion of tomorrow's debate on the Family Law Bill about 50 members will have spoken in the debate. 
It is hoped that because of the length of the debate on this measure that lies before us, members might see fit to curtail their speeches. If every one takes 20 minutes in which to make his speech it will be an exceedingly long debate. I would hope that tomorrow members might restrict their speeches to 10 minutes. I do not say that that will enable all the members who wish to speak on this subject to take part in the debate, but if those who take part in the debate restrict their speeches to 10 minutes we would get through about 20 speakers tomorrow. I expect that as time goes on a number of members will decide not to speak in the debate. If at the conclusion of the time that is to be set aside tomorrow to discuss this matter it is seen that only a few more members wish to speak in the debate, we might well be able to continue the debate and conclude it. We have no desire to curtail the debate or to stop members from speaking in it. 
Government business is important. What is the more important question is a matter of opinion. The alternatives before us are quite clear. When we return after the recess we might well have to sit every Friday. Instead of having a 3 weeks' sitting period we might well have to continue sitting for a week or two and set that time aside exclusively to deal with the Family Law Bill. If debate on the Bill is not finished at the scheduled end of the session we might have to continue to sit into July. 
When I was in Opposition I used to be as enthusiastic as the Deputy Leader of the Country Party, but from time to time I was frightened to death that the then Government might accept my offer. So I suggest to him that he should not show too much enthusiasm because I know what the pitfalls are. I only hope that if and when in the far distant future I return to the Opposition side I can remember some of the speeches that the Deputy Leader of the Country Party is making now. I will repeat them with great pleasure. Tomorrow will run its course. As events in regard to the debate open up tomorrow we .will see how things are going. If the debate is not finished tomorrow we will have to continue it. The alternatives are there, as I have mentioned. These are not threats; I am just putting the practical side of what we can do in the time available to us. 
I assure the House that there is no desire on the part of the Government to stop members who wish to express their point of view on this issue from doing so. I only hope that the speeches can be curtailed. Members can put their point of view so that their electorates will know what it is. We will see whether we can conclude the second reading debate. Even if we do that there is still a long way to go. When we have voted on the motion for the second reading of the Bill there is no saying that we will be much further ahead. I have looked at some of the motions on the notice paper and I think that you would want to be a good Irishman to follow what will happen even if the motion for the second reading of the Bill is defeated. But they are things that we can work out from here on. If the motion for the second reading of the Bill is carried, I almost shudder to think what will happen at the Committee stage, because I have seen the amendments that have already been proposed. Every member should know that this is a long Bill. 
No. If the honourable member wants to know, I am against the lot of them. My solution is quite a simple one. I am just waiting for a vote so I can make my opinion known. I thank honourable members opposite for the approach that they have adopted to this motion. I appreciate that there is an urgency to discuss private members' business. I am hopeful, too, that if any private members ' business remains to be discussed at the end of the session we will set aside a day to deal with it, like we did last Friday in regard to the Family Law Bill. 
These are the problems that we face. I know that Opposition members are sympathetic to my approach to these matters and desire to stay here in the middle of winter, and we might well be doing that as time goes on. However, I give that reply to the point raised by the honourable member. If the gag or a device to curtail debate is moved tomorrow, he may be assured that every member on this side will be entitled to vote as he or she wishes. I would assume that we may well make a big hole in the number of speakers listed to take part in the debate tomorrow. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to speak to the amendment. 
I thought that with the Opposition's co-operation we would set aside this morning to discuss the important family law legislation. Yet today we see a filibuster in the form of a stupid motion put forward under the guise that it relates to great national events to hold up the debate on the Family Law Bill. Evidently a lot of honourable members opposite do not want to discuss the attitude they will take on it. I notice that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  both took their full time. I think I will too, particularly to bring the honourable member for Curtin up to date because evidently the memory for which he is famous wears out when he has to get down to the facts. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party has moved that we meet on 18 March. He seems to forget that 12 March is a holiday and that 28 March is Good Friday. If we sat during this period of March it would be a stop and start arrangement. 
The Parliament is now sitting for its fourth week. The legislative program is proceeding smoothly, despite the opposition, frustration and disruptive tactics of those who sit opposite. I can assure honourable members opposite that there are no ulterior motives associated with the move to adjourn for 4 weeks. In a few minutes I shall read the views of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  on how the Opposition is performing in the House. According to him the sooner we go into recess the better the Opposition will go. There is important legislation to be discussed and honourable members will be given adequate and full time to discuss it. I thought it was almost a fantasy to hear the honourable member for New England saying that we should stay here because parliamentary salaries have gone up. That is a completely new approach from him. He is always expressing great concern for private members. Private members have electorates to look after. They have people to represent. They have people to see. From all sides of this Parliament  I have  received  requests  that the Parliament should sit less and let honourable members attend to their electoral duties. All these matters are raised. The honourable member for New England said that we wished to adjourn the Parliament for 4 weeks because the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wanted to go overseas. He knows that this is completely false. If he reads the results of the gallup polls he will see that the great increase in the Prime Minister's popularity has occurred because of the trip he undertook on behalf of Australia over the Christmas period. It is revealed today that that is the situation. 
Let me tell honourable members that they need not have any worry about how long they will sit during this session, ' because I have already outlined to honourable members that we will be sitting for a considerable time. By the end of this session we will have sat at least 3 1 days. I imagine that number of days will be considerably extended by sittings on Fridays to meet the wishes of honourable members opposite to discuss important legislation. The record of this Government in terms of sittings alone exceeds anything the Opposition ever achieved. We have already scheduled 3 1 sitting days for this autumn session. Last year the autumn session finished early because of the double dissolution, so we can discount the 1 6 days we sat then. Prior to last year the number of sitting days during the autumn session was as follows: 34 days in 1973, 33 days in 1972, 31 days in 1971, 38 days in 1970, 29 days in 1969, 28 days in 1968, 31 days in 1967, 25 days in 1966 and 27 days in 1965. It will be seen that consistently the Parliament has sat not only for longer hours but also for more days. I tell honourable members not to get too excited about the limitation on days because it appears we will sit for 40 days or more in this autumn session. Then we will see what the situation is. 
There is no intention to curtail debate. The honourable member for Curtin said that no time is given for Committee debate. The other day we debated the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. For the second reading debate 4 hours and 9 minutes was allowed and about 10 honourable members spoke. The Committee debate went for 5 hours 38 minutes. The honourable member for Curtin spoke 16 times and never uttered a word of sense in any of the 16 times he spoke. In addition, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  spoke 2 1 times in that debate. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  made 10 contributions, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  ten, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  nine, the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr McPhee)  eight, and honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  four and the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  three. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  spoke on 45 occasions. So, honourable members can see that plenty of opportunity was given for debate on that legislation. Further, we spent 4 hours 1816 minutes on the second reading debate on the Australian Housing Corporation Bill. Those honourable members who sit opposite know full well that that is the situation. 
The honourable member for Curtin who has just resumed his seat spoke about the gag, the guillotine and all those devices. Anything that I do in this Parliament, I learnt from members of the parties which now sit in opposition. There were some experts including the late  Sir Eric  Harrison, Reg Swartz and others. I worshipped at the feet of the masters of the guillotine and the gag. I suffered from them. For 23 years I sat on the Opposition side and some of the best speeches not delivered in this Parliament were those which were gagged immediately I rose to my feet to speak. Who would ever forget the occasion when 17 Bills were put through in 19 hours? The honourable member who has just spoken was one who voted for that motion. The honourable member for New England, who moved the amendment, also supported that motion. 
The honourable member for Curtin said that he does not want the 1 1 o'clock rule. Why does he not try to do something in that respect by moving that we sit into the early hours of the morning, as we used to? He will be as lonely as he is now in the Caucus room; he will not get a seconder. Every night of the week an adjournment debate takes place. Let me show honourable members what happened previously. In 1970, under the former Government, the House of Representatives sat for 23 hours after midnight. In 1971, it sat 29 hours after midnight, the highest level in the history of this Parliament. In 1972, this House sat 16 hours after midnight. In 1974, under this Labor Government, due entirely to the disruption of those who sit opposite, this House sat after midnight, but on one occasion only. 
The honourable member spoke about the opportunities to speak on the adjournment motion. Listen to this: In 1971 on one occasion the House sat until 4.42 a.m. and probably had an adjournment motion debate then. On one occasion in 1971, the House sat until 6.22 a.m. It sat until 1.43 a.m. in 1972. In 1973 the latest sitting hour was 1 1.58 p.m. in 1974, 12.35 a.m. was the latest that the House sat. Many a time I have sat here and listened to honourable members speaking in the early hours of the morning, whenever we were allowed on those rare occasions to have an adjournment debate. Honourable members had to try to speak on the adjournment motion at unearthly hours. The fact of the matter is that under this Labor Government that situation has gone and honourable members have 3 adjournment debates each week. Opportunity for members to speak is available. On only one occasion- that is today- since we have been in government have we postponed General Business day. Yet, on 2 occasions, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who is sitting in the chamber now, moved motions to interfere with private members' business day, at the same time talking about what was wanted and what rights members should have in this Parliament. Last week, he moved a motion as a result of which honourable members opposite did away with a portion of the time allotted for private members' business. But those who sit opposite did not agree with or care about that motion. 
The situation is that the proposed sitting days and sitting hours work in with the needs of private members, with the legislative program, the preparation of legislation and all matters associated with those aspects. In addition, there is a holiday period in March and the acceptance of this program will not limit the amount of time that can be spent in dealing with matters in the Parliament. 
As I mentioned to the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  has been making some good statements lately. On Tuesday evening of this week, he appeared on the television program This Day Tonight'. I have a transcript of the relevant segment which is entitled  'Mr John  Gorton Interviewed on Various Topics'. He was asked: 
What's wrong though with the Opposition now, talking of  Mr Snedden  - and so it goes on. The right honourable member for Higgins said: 
 I think we're doing all right outside the House, you know. He's making good speeches at rallies and dinners and things like that- um- I don't know, inside the House of course doesn't really matter very much. An election isn't held on what happens inside the House, but I can't say why it's not doing very well in the House. 
I am really doing Opposition members a favour; I am trying to hide their Leader. We are hiding him from the public gaze. He cannot be televised here, but the public can hear him on the radio. 
The right honourable member for Higgins said that  Mr Snedden  should not be seen here in the House too much because he is not going so well. Then he says: 
I think that the Opposition is far too keen to take points of order and to sing out and make a noise and act in a jar.rikinish way . . . . . . 
He is talking about the man we are hiding. The less the House sits, the more I think Opposition members' popularity ought to gallop ahead because if the public sees the way their Leader is going on as he is doing here, the Opposition parties' popularity will fall accordingly. I am quoting the right honourable member for Higgins on this. Honourable members opposite should not say that he does not know what he is talking about because they elected him Prime Minister once. If he was still Prime Minister, I think he would be a very formidable character. I do not doubt that I could get a few other members from the Opposition side who would support what I am saying. 
Then the right honourable member for Higgins referred to the running of the House and the sittings and why sittings should be limited or why they should not. He said: 
I think it would be much better if we said when Whitlam starts or one of his Ministers starts a long drawn out answer to a question to let it go and then object, and when we've got it all added up have a real objection to it, or when Whitlam pours a bucket on Snedden to say- well now, if the Prime Minister's finished pouring the bucket on me can we get back to the business of the House. 
But the Leader of the Opposition will not say those things here. When the House is in recess he can write about it and tell us at the weekend what he would do if he were in the House. So, all in all, we are really doing the Opposition a favour by hiding the disunity that exists among them. That disunity is unseemly to us on this side of the Parliament. It is with some regret and sorrow that we see the disunity that exists. We hate to see the Country Party at the throats of its partners, eating from their hands right up to the elbow. We hate to see these things happening. In every way, this motion will be one- I do not like to say it- which might help the Opposition a bit by keeping hidden from the public what is happening in this place. 
We can afford to be generous because we have a magnificent leader. I am only quoting the right honourable member for Higgins on this matter. As I say, he knows the situation. Let me summarise the effects of the amendment in the minutes at my disposal. The days of sitting will be longer; the sitting hours will be longer; and if honourable members opposite want to sit into the early hours of the morning, by all means they can vote for that amendment. But I think the parliamentary hours as they are now are reasonable and should be confined to that scope. There would be plenty of time for debate on all issues if we did not have to put up with the larrikin conduct of those opposite that has been in evidence, as the right honourable member for Higgins said, in more recent times. 
Let honourable members be assured that, arising out of my proposal, there will be plenty of time for debate. The hours of sitting have been arranged to fit in with the holiday period and all that is associated with it. Immediately Parliament resumes, there will be another session of 3 weeks and honourable members will have full opportunity for debate. In addition, there will be no curtailment of debate unless there are deliberate, obstructionist tactics from those who sit opposite. I wish the honourable member for Curtin had asked me a few more questions because I could have given him for his file real records of the infamous conduct of the previous Government in regard to the restriction of debate and the use of the gag, when the opportunity for private members to debate on private members day was unknown. Opposition members then rarely had the opportunity to speak on the adjournment. Such an opportunity was usually in the early hours of the morning. 
Under this Government, an endeavour has been made to provide proper debating hours and, at the same time, proper discussion. A Parliament which is geared for a membership of seventy five, but which has 127 members, presents difficulties, no matter who might be leading the House. Far from endeavouring to criticise the efforts that are being made to give members a reasonable opportunity for debate, the honourable member would be well advised to put forward some constructive suggestions. I think we could do well to study carefully some changes that have been made in other Parliaments to see whether we cannot make this Parliament a more workable proposition. 
I am sorry that the time of the House this morning has been taken up by what is a straight out political attempt to berate the Government. This attack has no substance whatever. The honourable member who moved the amendment and the honourable member who seconded it know that it is an unworkable proposition. It would inconvenience those who arc preparing the legislation, the private members and others associated with Parliament. What we have laid down gives every member the opportunity to care for this electors and at the same time to attend to his needs and requirements in Parliament House. I would have thought that with their failing fortunes, members of the Opposition would want to go out into their electorates these days and let the people know what they say we have not done and why they should be elected. As I say, in a generous way, we are giving honourable members opposite an opportunity to hide from public view here but to let the public see them as they really are. We know if that happens we will be elected overwhelmingly no matter when elections are held.  Mr Speaker,  I would like the Family Law Bill to be debated so I formally move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="093131197503061_20_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197503061_20_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the date proposed to be omitted  (Mr Sinclair's amendment)  stand pan of the question. 
-The 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 28 February under the heading 'Court action settled as MP withdraws allegation' carried this article: 
A defamation action in the NSW Supreme Court against  Mr W.  C. Wentworth, a Liberal MP, was settled yesterday on undisclosed terms. 

 Mr Wentworth withdrew any allegation that  Mr P.  F. Morris, Labor MP, had offered a bribe to a man to swear a false declaration. 

 Mr Wentworth wishes, therefore, to withdraw any such allegation that may have been understood from his television interview'  Mr Hunt  said. 

 Mr Evatt said  Mr Morris  wished him to accept  Mr Wentworth  's retraction. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who has just added to his smearing campaign, is the gentleman who unreservedly withdrew allegations against an Australian Labor Party member of this Parliament.  His  word could not be accepted by the court and for it he had to pay undisclosed damages. This is the individual who tonight came into this Parliament and defamed persons who cannot defend themselves. I ask this House to accept his reputation for what it is as exemplified in the case that arose because he libelled a member on this side of the Parliament and had to withdraw unreservedly. 
The honourable member for Mackellar has not been the same since he captured Cronulla in the war years. I have here the real story which states that Army faces were red when Wentworth raid captured Cronulla. For that he was cashiered out of the Army, and the article goes on 'to say it. I think also that he has never been the same since the communist team won his trophy for the tug-of-war at the Port Kembla waterside workers picnic a few years ago. At that time he was allied with the communist party in that campaign and he presented with great dignity - 
-I withdraw the statement, but I understand that there is a splendid photograph in the waterside workers canteen at Port Kembla showing the honourable member for Mackellar presenting his trophy to the communist captain of the tug-of-war team at the Port Kembla sports. This gentleman is one who tonight smeared people. For that day at least he was allied with those enemies of the nation, as he calls them. Tonight he was smearing, but in the court he is an apologist. He fronts up well under privilege but in the courts he cannot substantiate his allegations. I regret that I have had to raise this matter tonight, but the nation is entitled to know the type of people who make these insinuations. They make allegations in the Parliament, but if they were challenged in the court we would have another abject apology. 
The House adjourned at 11 p.m. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer to Question No. 1581 which was supplied by the Minister for the Media. (Hansard, 4 December 1974, page 4590). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No specific provision has been made in the estimates of my department for the financial year 1974-75 in connection with the development of an Australian Government Office Complex in Parramatta. Such provision has not been necessary. 
Expenditure has however been incurred for incidental items such as consultants fees and this has been charged to the 'Administrative Vote' of the Department of Housing and Construction. 
No, it is not proposed to change the program that was distributed to honourable members recently. The Parliament will continue in the usual way, except that there may be an extra day's sitting here or there because of the legislative program. I think the recent recess was one that would be accepted by honourable members as a desirable change. It gave private members the opportunity to look after their electorate matters, it gave Ministers a chance to attend to their administrative matters and it gave the Opposition a chance to change its Leader. Furthermore, the recess that we have just had allowed members of the Opposition to do so without the light of day being thrown on it in a forum such as this. I should say also that the recess and the parliamentary program have allowed people to know that the change in the leadership opposite was not a Labor plot but a Fraser purge. Furthermore, it allowed the people to know that that plot was organised and consummated over cheese and biscuits at the home of the 'Godfather'  Sir Magnus  Cormack- in a dark Toorak road one bleak night. I advise honourable members opposite that, good and desirable as the recent recess was, I cannot continue to allow a recess to be held every time they want to change the leadership of the Liberal Party of Australia. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for references and appeals to a Full Bench of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in connection with industrial matters concerning pilots, navigators and flight engineers within the jurisdiction of the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal. The intention is that flight crew officers should be put as nearly as possible in the same position as employees in the Commission's jurisdiction. The effect of the application to the Tribunal of the reference provisions along the lines of those in section 34 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act would be that any industrial question before the Tribunal could be referred to a Full Bench of the Commission if the  President  of the Commission was of the view that a matter of important public interest was involved. The effect of the application of provisions along the lines of those in section 35 would be that arbitrated awards and a refusal to certify an agreement in settlement or prevention of a dispute would be subject to appeal to a Full Bench. As is now the position in relation to the Commission, certified agreements and awards made by consent would not be subject to appeal. 
To understand why there currently exists this anomalous position where the reference and appeal provisions apply to other employees coming under the coverage of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, but not to flight crew officers, one has to go back to the establishment in 1967 of the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal as special machinery to deal with industrial disputes involving pilots, navigators and flight engineers in the airlines industry. The Government of the time was opposed, as is the present Government, to constituting special tribunals in the industrial field. However, there were very special circumstances to be dealt with. Following the Australian Industrial Court's decision on more than one occasion to impose the maximum penalties under the penal provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act on the association covering air pilots, the PilOtS had broken away from the arbitration system in 1 959. They had set up a new organisation, the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, which they refused to register under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act; and they had gone to great lengths to frustrate any attempts to bring them back within the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It was in this context that the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal was established. 
Under the Act as it now stands, the Tribunal alone is independent of the reference and appeal provisions. Presidential members as well as Commissioners are subject to references and appeals, not only with regard to their work within their Panels but also when they are assigned to specific industries under Divisions 2 to 5 of Part III of the Act, such as the maritime industries, the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme and the stevedoring industry. The only specific industry under the Act which does not come within these provisions is the civil aviation industry with respect to flight crew. Moreover, the person who constitutes the Tribunal is also and concurrently a Presidential Member of the Commission. Thus we have the position that in one of his capacities the Tribunal is subject to the provisions, but not when he is acting in the other capacity. 
If it is desirable that the knowledge and experience of a Full Bench- that is at least 3 members, 2 of whom must be Presidential Membersshould be available to deal with matters of important public interest and to protect parties to awards and the community against the consequences of possible error or misjudgment by Presidential Members of the Commission, it is equally desirable that that knowledge and experience should be available in relation to a Presidential Member of the Commission who constitutes the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal. The appeal provisions establish a means whereby a Full Bench can remedy anomalous or other defective decisions. The reference provisions are a means whereby general principles can be formulated for application in relation to matters of importance to the community in general and whereby disputes of major significance can be brought before a Full Bench in the public interest. 
It is anomalous that only pan of a significant national industry such as the civil aviation industry is currently within the scope of the reference and appeal provisions. It is anomalous that some employees under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are covered by those provisions while others under that Act are not. It is anomalous that a member of the Commission acting in one capacity is subject to the reference and appeal provisions but not when he is acting in another one. The passage of this Bill will rectify these anomalies. At the same time, the opportunity is being taken to delete certain transitional provisions and to make some minor tidying up amendments to Part IIIa. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (5). I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Special Minister of State in reply to Question No. 1862 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, pages 4844-4850). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:- 

 Senator R. G. Withers- Leader of the Opposition in the Senate;  Senator the  Honourable I. J. Greenwood, Q.C.-  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate;  Senator the  Honourable T. C. Drake-Brockman, D.F.C- Leader of the Country Party in the Senate; The Right Honourable B. M. Snedden, Q.C., M.P.-Leader of the Opposition; The Honourable P. R. Lynch, M.P-  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition; The Right Honourable J. D. Anthony, M.P- Leader of the Country Party; The Right Honourable J. G. Gorton, 
C.H., M.P.- former Prime Minister; The Right Honourable W. McMahon, C.H., M.P- former Prime Minister. 
The respective total of cars used by the above mentioned Senators and Members are as follows: 
In the course of his address, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  dealt with the rights of private members and the need for private members to be given the opportunity to participate in an effective way in the work of the Parliament. So, I remind the Leader of the Opposition that this is the one day in every 2 sitting weeks when private members are given the opportunity to participate in their own way in the doings of this Parliament. Here, today, we have the Leader of the Opposition infringing on that time and preventing, amongst others, 6 members of his own side from speaking as well as at least 5 members on the Government side. 
The situation is that the Opposition is continually complaining about the lack of time available to private members. Today, we find the Leader of the Opposition taking away the rights of private members and then saying in the course of bis speech that private members ought to be given more time for speeches in this Parliament. Yesterday was the day for this matter of public importance to be proposed for discussion. But the Leader of the Opposition, desiring to impress his audience before somebody else takes his place, wanted to make his speech while the proceedings of the House were being broadcast, so he did not propose this matter for discussion yesterday. Consequently, we find that he puts this proposal forward today. 
I would suggest that he might start by reforming the Senate. That would.be a first-class place to commence reforms to the parliamentary system.' He could bring his own people into line in that chamber and see that that reform is made. I would' suggest also that he might make a submission to the Joint Committee on Committees and see whether he could not get a procedures committee appointed through that body. He might give formal evidence also to the Joint Committee on the Pecuniary Interests of Members .of. Parliament. In many ways, he could objectively put his proposals forward, if he so desires. 
I admit that this is a subject for debate. It is an important one. But it is not one which should take up the time allotted for speeches by private members of this House. My responsibility as the Leader of this House is to protect the rights of all private members, Government and Opposition. I have no intention whatsoever of allowing the Leader of the Opposition, in the temporary time that he is to occupy that position and in the temporary period that he will be Leader of the Opposition, to prevent that right and to take up the time of the Grievance debate by bringing forward for discussion in this House a matter which could well be debated on any other day of the sitting week. Having said so, in accordance with the policy of this Government of maintaining the rights of private members, I suggest to the Leader of the Opposition that he might debate this subject at a more appropriate time, and I move: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to take a few minutes to enlighten the public about the Opposition's shadow cabinet and its method of election, which is most intriguing in itself, quite apart from the numbers involved. Recently the Liberal Party, in its regular process of changing its leader, had to elect a new shadow ministry. Today we find that there are 61 Opposition members in this Parliament and no less than 23 of them are shadow Ministers- the list is getting longer every day- and there are 38 back benchers sitting behind them. The Government is interested to note the process by which the shadow Ministers are elected. The criterion is not whether you have the ability or not- the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said that himself- it is whether you voted for him or not and the fact that you got into this Ministry does not mean that you are any good at all. We are wondering when the next seven or eight names are going to be announced, because the Leader of the Opposition got 37 votes and it is only right that the other six should be included. When ability does not matter, I am wondering how the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  missed out because he is a very ordinary performer but he would stand out like a beacon in front of those who sit on the Opposition front bench. If that is not enough, we find that on the back bench there are no less than eleven ex-Ministers, including 2 former Prime Ministers and one former Leader of the Opposition. Now they cannot even get into the first 31 and they have to sit on the back benches like 3 wise monkeys: See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil. Fancy the great honourable member for 
Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  not being fit to get into a Ministry that includes even the honourable member for Stun  (Mr Wilson)  who is sitting at the table. He is really battling when he cannot beat that honourable gentleman. 
In addition, we find that guidelines have been laid down. What talent has been wasted by these guidelines! There are no less than seven or eight barristers and seven or eight company directors who now must remain idle for years to come in order to fulfil their onerous tasks in the shadow ministry. Think of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  closing down his small debts practice.  His  only client has to go elsewhere and the Queensland gaols are emptied out because he is handling defence. What about the wasted talent associated with the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch).  Any circus would want him as a tight rope walker. He is the greatest aerial acrobat in the Parliament. He walked between all the prospective leaders and still won when the numbers went up. The Country Party even found a farmer or so to sit on the front bench, and farmers are pretty hard to find in the Country Party. Now members of the shadow ministry have to give up their outside interests. I find these guidelines very strange. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  who, we are told, is the greatest legal brain on the Opposition side, said that he would not give away the one or two clients that he has in his legal practice. But, ultimately, he decided to do so. We find that now he is in charge of Aborigines and Tasmania. He has never seen Tasmania, and there are no Aborigines on that island. Here is the greatest legal brain on the Opposition side. He is now handling the great problems of Tasmania and those of Aborigines, particularly in Tasmania where, I understand, there are not any Aborigines. What a sacrifice he has made. What the nation is missing because of that sacrifice! Earlier, I saw the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  who now no longer is in his huge industry in South Australia. Is this not a wierd and strange collection of people? To the benefit of the Parliament today, I think we could move the Opposition front bench to the Opposition back bench, and move the Opposition back bench to the Opposition front bench, and we would not notice any difference at all. 
How long is this state of affairs to continue? How long must we tolerate it? The way in which this situation has arisen is worth mentioning. I will do so in a few fleeting minutes as I promised my Country Party friend, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  some time to participate in this debate. We cannot let these matters pass, even though they have been mentioned this morning. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  mentioned the meeting at the home of the Liberal Party Godfather,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, in Melbourne. Here were  Senator Withers, Senator Durack  and the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  2000 miles off course, thinking they were in Fremantle, walking up Toorak Road on a dark night. They saw the Godfather's light on. They said: 'We cannot get a Kentucky fry down the street. He is sure to have one on the ice. ' So in they go. And, who do you think wandered in about 8 o'clock or 9 o'clock that night, but the great tightrope walker from Flinders. He was looking for a Kentucky fry too. Then, in addition to that, when things are just going along nicely, Leilani's owner arrived. I understand that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  has had to give away that interest and buy a greyhound now. He wandered in. But the Godfather dismissed him. He said: ' We have the tight rope walker instead of you '. It was all set up. The Godfather said: 'Take a spoon each. You will be given the knives as you leave'. Consequently this was done. 
But who else do honourable members think was looking for a Kentucky fry at about 1 o'clock in the morning but the present Leader of the Opposition. 'My heavens', he said, 'fancy the Godfather waking up'. So, in this little conclave they sat and pondered over tea and biscuits. The honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  later described it as a nice little party, amongst friends, to discuss political futures. He was so innocent. As they left, the Godfather said: 'Take a knife each. You will want them later in the week, about Friday'. But he said to the tightrope walker: 'We are not trusting you with a knife, because you might cut the rope you are walking on'. Arising out of this meeting, we now have a new Leader of the Opposition and this weird collection of, so we are told, prospective Cabinet Ministers. We have this great collection of guidelines. It was all too much even for the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes).  He said that he could not put up with the sordid intrigue in this once great Party. As he will put up with almost anything, it must have been a really crook show. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  cannot get into this shadow Ministry. We know the brains that he has because he has told us so often how good he is. This is the weird collection which seeks to destroy this Government. Heavens, one only gets to know a Liberal leader and they change him. I have been here so long that I must keep their names in a book because, tomorrow, one does not know who might be there. Look at the vibrant, scintillating personality sitting at the table- the honourable member for Sturt. With the present Leader of his Party, he is going to lead the Liberals back to that new world, whatever it might be. 
The honourable member for Lilley interjects. I am very sorry that he is not on the front bench because he is one who has a little to add. Such Opposition members are very scarce. He is one who could do the job. These are the people who hold those positions. But there are six or seven more to come. Positions are still being found for them. The new Opposition Whip, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  has a guilty conscience. Every time the former Leader of the Opposition is mentioned, he nearly has a heart attack and takes a point of order. I notice that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  enjoys my joke. If he had voted the right way, his ability would not have mattered and he would have been Opposition Whip. This is how Opposition shadow Ministers are picked. They might as well be picked with a pin. 
We are expected to accept that this situation will give new leadership to this country. Why, it is a fantasy. It is a real fantasy, but the public ought to know how these things are done. Opposition members talk about disunity on the Government side of the House. Why, I am learning every day from the Liberal Party. If I may coin a phrase, as one of my colleagues said this morning, more in sorrow than in anger I say these things: I am sorry for the machinations of members of this once great Party, for the problems they face, for the internal difficulties that they are up against and their problem of trying to fit two into one, as it were, with respect to their shadow ministry. 
I say to the people of Australia: 'You have seen the Liberals in action in the public gaze. You know how the Godfather runs them. If you want the company directors and the barristers to be back in business, you had better discard the present shadow Ministry'. The last change in the shadow Ministry means that the people will know precisely that shadow Ministry members are not picked on ability. The election of the present Leader of the Opposition is a temporary expedient to solve the leadership problem of the Liberal Party until somebody else bobs up. 
Come what may, I know that, when the Australian people come to pass judgment, they certainly will not vote for anyone of those opposite who are in or out of the shadow Ministry. The Opposition has a first 1 1 and a second 1 1 . Speaking as I do now, I suppose I should say that they are Rugby men because, after all, they have all got to be good. Even the honourable member for Mackellar must sit up and try to be good in the Parliament. He knows that, if he does not, he will get his 40 lines, or be kept in if he does not obey the 'head prefect'.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  these are the people who seek to displace this Government. I know that you will be in complete agreement with me when I tell you that that is an impossible proposition to accept. 
I think the Opposition is putting the cart before the horse, as the debate that has taken place applies in complete detail to clause 21, but I shall broadly outline under this clause the attitude of the Government to the Opposition's amendments. They came to our notice only earlier today. I make no complaint about that. At first glance I would say their purpose is designed to destroy completely the purpose of the Bill. That does not mean to say that we may not accept some of them, but I am extremely doubtful whether we will. In this House we will vote against them all because we have not had time to consider them in detail, and particularly as previously honourable members opposite have voted against their own amendments without having bothered to discuss them. 
I do not think I have ever heard a sillier argument than that advanced by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  Forty countries, including some of the greatest democracies in the world, have found none of the drawbacks mentioned by the honourable member. Certainly the attitude that the people are not entitled to know the party to which a candidate belongs must be the most antiquated thinking of any member of this Parliament. Does he mean to tell me that people of all ages in districts in New South Wales can be/ expected to know the names of 73 Senate candidates and their affiliations? I bet that many university students could not work them out. All this legislation seeks to do is to give every Australian the right to know who the candidate is that he is voting for. If a person is absent from his electorate it is important that he know the names of the candidate. Sometimes they are not available. I see no reason why in any democracy a person should not know who his candidate is and the party to which he belongs. 
Certainly we have to have some method of registering the parties. Forty other countries have not found any problem in this regard. We have not heard the honourable member for Bennelong complain about the Australian Capital Territory, where elections were recently held in a manner that we propose in this Bill. In those elections the Australian Labor Party won a minority of the seats. So there is no benefit to the Labor Party in this proposal. If the Opposition objects on the grounds it has stated why did we not hear honourable members opposite speak on electoral matters relating to the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory? Do they think that Great Britain, Canada, the United States of America and other countries have not had the problems they have raised? The Opposition is denying the people of this country the right to know the candidates they may vote for or against. It is increasing the informal vote and in that way negating the real democratic approach that there should be in this country whereby people know precisely for whom they are voting. The fact that a party may not be able to get people to man the booths does not mean that it is not a popular party. 
The Country Party and, for that matter, any person in the huge electorates, will tell honourable members that in many inaccessible places how-to-vote cards are forwarded, probably by mail, to be left at the booths. This does not mean that one has to man every booth. There are other methods. The fact that booths are not manned does not mean unpopularity. Many candidates have won seats with no booths manned. Having a good look at the members of the Australian Country Party I think the less they are seen the better because they would get bigger majorities. But I make the point that I have never heard such antiquated thinking. We are told that there are young, progressive Liberals in Parliament today, but they are telling the Australian people that they are not entitled to have the name of the political party put alongside the name of their candidate on the ballot paper. In relation to the broad terms of the amendments the Government will be voting against them in this chamber. I do not say that they will not be considered. But time does not permit me to see the ramifications of them. I have made a broad observation in relation to this clause although perhaps it may better have been made in relation to clause 21. 
The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  is a great one for innuendo and insinuation. He is almost charging the electoral officers of this country with corruption. I suppose of all the public servants no men stand higher in public esteem than those who count the votes, particularly the man who controls and appoints the State electoral officers. 
The honourable member has stated certain things about redistribution. I would like him to see some of the files I have seen associated with redistributions carried out in regard to certain appointments by those opposite. In connection with surveyors in one particular case this would make extremely interesting reading because I doubt whether the man concerned had any qualifications at all. The honourable member has cast aspersions on  Dr Wilenski  and  Mr Menadue.  To start with, they are not surveyors so they could not be appointed under this proposal. 
State surveyors came into the field of electoral distribution at the turn of the century when they were possibly the only persons with the organisation and the mapping facilities and all those things associated with the drawing of electoral boundaries. But since that time we have established our own surveying section- an Australian surveying section which does commendable work for all concerned. Surveyors were originally appointed from the States because the Commonwealth at that time was not in a position to carry out this work. The change proposed by this clause would make possible the appointment of surveyors who would no doubt have the highest qualifications. 
To show how foolish the Opposition's amendment is, one part of the clause which the Opposition seeks to take out is proposed subsection (4) which states: 
The Minister may, on such terms and conditions as he thinks fit, engage such persons as he thinks necessary for the purposes of assisting the Distribution Commissioners in connection with the distribution of a State into Divisions. 
In other words, the Opposition does not even want the Distribution Commissioners to have a typist, a secretary, a person to help write the reports, a person to meet people or people to assist them in their general work. One only has to go to the Remuneration Tribunal to see a dozen experts sitting around who have been provided quite rightly to assist the Tribunal to reach a decision. 
So the Opposition thinks at this stage that the 3 Distribution Commissioners should sit down and type or, if they cannot type, write out a report without anyone to help them do so. The Opposition would completely wipe out the facilities that ought to be available to the Commissioners. Quite frankly, when I took over my portfolio I was amazed at the lack of attention given to the requirements of electoral officers, particularly Distribution Commissioners who were given no staff at all from what I can see outside of those ordinarily available to them to carry out their important task. The provision which is sought to be taken out of this legislation is one which does give us the right to engage suitable back-up staff for the important work on which the Commissioners are engaged. 
I do not accept the insinuations of the honourable member. As I say, I know of one case from my studies of the files where the Opposition when in Government in contravention of the Act appointed a person who was not even a surveyor. I hope that honourable members opposite know when they make such statements that I read the files. So I would suggest to the honourable member not to keep insinuating about what Labor does in these matters. What the Government does is done strictly in accordance with the Act. The present redistribution occurred that way. This was also the case with the redistribution that took place in Western Australia. In fact one of the Distribution Commissioners in Western Australiaother than the Surveyor-General of that State- was appointed by a Liberal Government. Yet the honourable member insinuates that things are wrong. The Labor party did not even ask for a recount in the electorate of Stirling where there was a 12-vote majority because it has trust in the integrity of those who count the votes. These vile insinuations do the honourable member little credit. The fact that the honourable member now wants the Distribution Commissioners to redistribute all the boundaries around Australia without even a girl to type their reports shows that this is merely an obstructionist tactic designed to stop any reform of the electoral laws that is of benefit to the people of Australia. 
I do not know of many surveyors outside those in the Public Service but I do not doubt that in this day and age surveyors are available in many categories who probably would be just as useful as those we have now. The availability of such people enlarges the scope for recruitment. On many occasions the State Surveyors-General are not available. One cannot get them all the time. I know that in the case of the Western Australian redistribution we found that the demands on the time of the Surveyor-General of that State were such that he was sent away to various places at times when deliberations were taking place because of the important work that was needed to be done in that State. The clause widens the scope. There is nothing sinister in it. I think it ought to be supported. But even if the Opposition does not support the clause, to deny those drawing the electoral boundaries even the assistance of a typist is to me just an exercise in futility. 
Under this clause the Surveyor-General of a State is not excluded from being appointed. The clause states that a person to be appointed shall be a person who is licensed or registered as a surveyor under a law of a State or internal Territory. That would include the SurveyorGeneral as one who is eligible for appointment. 
No. The reason behind that is that the surveyors-general are not always available. Sometimes States refuse to make them available. In the event of a surveyor-general not being available or a State not desiring that he be occupied in this way, this clause gives anyone concerned with the appointment the right to pick a qualified surveyor. Of course, we also lose sight of the fact that we have men of great integrity in the Commonwealth Surveyor-General's Department. They have been associated with redistributions in the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and other places. The SurveyorGeneral is not excluded under this clause. 
He is still qualified to be there. But the clause broadens the scope and makes it possible to appoint surveyors, surveyors-general or anyone associated in this area. The very restrictive method of appointment existing at this stage can cause complications and delays. It takes time to find out whether surveyors-general are available, whether their States will release them, whether a deputy is available and all that kind of thing. This proposal would broaden the position and at the same time expedite the process. But the surveyorsgeneral are not being excluded under this Bill. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 12- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 13. 
After section 41 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted:- '41a. ( 1 ) A person (other than a person who is, or is entitled to be, enrolled by virtue of section 4 1 ) who- 
is qualified for enrolment;  
is in the service of Australia, a State or a public authority; 
has left, and is living outside, Australia for the purpose of performing duties in that service; and 
has affixed intention of returning to Australia and of living within a Subdivision, or the spouse of such a person who is living with that person, is entitled to have his or her name placed on or transferred to, as the case requires, the Roll for that Subdivision in respect of the address outside Australia at which he or she is living. '(2) A person referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) may apply for enrolment or transfer of enrolment, as the case requires, by filling in and signing a claim in the prescribed form, in accordance with the directions printed on the form, and sending the claim to the Registrar for the Subdivision in respect of which he or she is entitled to be enrolled by virtue of this secion. '(3) Subject to sub-section (4), a person who- 
is enrolled for a Subdivision by virtue of this section; and 
b ) changes his or her place of living from the address in respect of which he or she is enrolled to another address (whether outside Australia or not), shall, within 1 month after the date on which he or she commences to live at that other address, notify the Registrar for that Subdivision, in writing, of that other address. 
Penalty: $10. '(4) Where a person who is enrolled for a Subdivision by virtue of this section commences to live at an address in that Subdivision within a period of 1 month after returning to Australia, sub-section (3) does not require him or her to notify the Registrar for the Subdivision of any other address in Australia at which he or she lived during that period. '(5) Where the Registrar for a Subdivision alters the address of a person who is enrolled for the Subdivision by virtue of this section to an address in the Subdivision, the person shall, for the purposes of this Act, cease to be treated as an elector enrolled by virtue of this section. '(6) Where a person who is enrolled by virtue of this section by reason only of being the spouse of a person changes his or her place of living to an address other than the place of living of his or her spouse, the first-mentioned person shall, on the expiration of the period of 1 month thereafter, unless during that period, he or she has resumed living with his or her spouse, cease to be entitled to have his or her name retained on any Roll by virtue of being the spouse of that person. '(11) The reference in paragraph (b) of sub-section ( 1 ) to a public authority is a reference to any public authority constituted by or under any law of Australia or of a State or internal Territory and, for the purposes of that paragraph, a person who constitutes, or is a member, officer or employee of, such an authority shall be deemed to be in the service of that authority. 
The Opposition and the Government are on reasonably common ground with regard to this matter, since there is recognition that the deposit should be increased. What it gets down to is what is considered to be a reasonable amount. The Government has no wish to prevent people from standing for election to Parliament by imposing a high deposit, but I think it is generally accepted that some reasonable amount should be applied in this age of high prices, with money values changing, that will discourage what could be termed frivolous candidates. One of the facts of life is that in the recent elections in New South Wales certain people in the Bankstown district put up a number of candidates and increased the total number of candidates to 73. My information is that they intended, if they could, to make the number about 173, and they offered to pay deposits. 
As honourable members know, for every 2 candidates nominated, the Senate ballot paper becomes about one inch or 1  lA  inches longer. Unless something is done to prevent the type of activity to which I have referred, the next ballot paper for New South Wales will be huge. I have here a document written by a  Mr Duncan  and which is called 'The Independent Political Research Organisation- a Special Report- Confidential', and the subject is the Australian general elections, 18 May 1974. The document states that, if a great number of candidates can be nominated for Senate elections, this will cause so many informal votes that certain parties could be defeated. I do not mind incorporating this document in Hansard, if honourable members will let me do so. I will let them look at it later; it is circulated. The basis of the document was that the Labor Party could lose the Senate election in New South Wales if enough candidates were presented. 
These people are working on the basis that in the very heavily industrialised seats represented by the Labor Party the proportion of informal votes would be the greatest, and the document goes on to prove this chapter and verse. The gentleman whose name is on this document canvassed around and gathered, I think, about 40 candidates. I think that half of them lived within half a mile of each other somewhere around the Bankstown area. The sum of $200 was involved, and this individual was ringing people up and saying, 'If you are short of the deposit, do not worry about that- I will fix it up for you.' To many people who have a lot of money $10,000 or $20,000 to pay as deposits for candidates would not be a worry, if this served certain purposes. There is a need to do something to prevent this sort of occurrence, because it does in fact affect the outcome of elections. 
It is interesting to note in respect of this matter that in 1902, when the average weekly wage was f 2.2s, the deposit was $50 for both the House of Representatives and the Senate. In 1965, when the average weekly income was about $40, it was increased to $200 and $100 respectively. The sum has not been increased since about 1965, so honourable members can see that some adjustment is necessary to meet not only the costs involved but also to cover the increase that has taken place in the cost of living and to prevent the sort of conduct to which I have referred. When we consider that, amongst the 73 candidates, some received only 150 votes out of about 2 million votes, nobody could say that these were not frivolous candidates. Therefore, tremendous cost can be caused to the Government- and that is the people- in the conduct of a Senate election. If an irresponsible candidate puts in his name flippantly or if some unscrupulous individual nominates candidates by the dozen, he can make democracy impossible to work. I say that, with the informal vote running at such a huge number, something must be done. The Opposition will not agree to optional preferential voting which allows people to vote for a limited number of candidates. In that case it would not matter if there were 200 candidates; but if the Opposition does not agree with that system something must be done on the other side of the ledger, and that is to increase deposits. 
As I say, we are on common ground, but it gets down to the amount involved. Probably some people in my party think it should be more, and probably some on the other side of the chamber think it should be $1,000 or $500, as the case may be; but we on this side think this is a reasonable figure in view of the costs that could be involved and the situation that exists. Whilst the existing situation may have affected the Labor Party last time, it could easily affect other parties next time. In the overall picture, it does affect democracy by the packing of ballot papers at a low cost, and in that way it defeats the real vote of the people. 
The fact that we are on common ground is good, but I would like to see the Opposition support $1,000. I do not think it would mitigate against any serious contender for political honours, and it certainly would stop those who nominate and get 23, 50 or 150 votes, out of a couple of million, causing not only great inconvenience to some individuals but also great cost and at the same time a tremendous number of informal votes. I suggest to honourable members opposite that they will have to make up their minds. Either they will have to alter the Senate system of voting to make it simpler so that the number of candidates will not matter in relation to the number of informal votes, or they will have to face up to what is a reasonable amount for the deposit. We on this side think it should be $ 1,000, and that is why that amount has been put in the Bill. 
-We think that the amendment moved in relation to the colour of the paper is very restrictive. Without going into all the pros and cons I think it has to be generally agreed among experienced politicians that there are those from all parties who endeavour to manipulate the postal voting system. It is important to consider this because one vote can cause the defeat of a member, the defeat of a government or the election of a government. Any infringement of the postal voting regulations is a very serious matter. It is known that certain over zealous supporters of all parties endeavour to use the postal voting system in a way which is not quite intended. One of the methods is to constantly have available a number of old forms. They are all filled in and on the day the writs are issued these forms are sent to everybody who voted last time asking them whether they want to vote and, in effect, almost soliciting. 
It is known that members of this House have had up to 2000 of those forms ready to go out at the drop of a hat. They are old forms. I say quite frankly that a Liberal member, whose name I shall not mention, is involved. This is sailing pretty close to the wind. Our suggestion is that the Electoral Office should each year decide on a colour. That becomes the colour of the application for that election. The application in Queensland always has the year on the form- 1974, or whatever the case might be. But if we tie this down to a special colour we might find that there are no stocks of that colour available at that time. We might not be able to get white paper, green paper or red paper as the case may be. So I think that on this rather minor point we will have to give a reasonable amount of elasticity to the Electoral Office. 
In relation to the return of the postal votes, under the postal voting system it is possible at this stage to vote after the close of the poll on the Saturday night. The postmark is no longer taken as the date on which one recognises the postal vote. As long as the vote comes in within, I think, 10 days afterwards it is accepted. There is nothing to stop a person voting on the Monday after the poll if he has the application form and if he back-dates it a couple of days. That could quite easily cost a member his seat. That is one reason why the postal votes ought to be in the electoral office on the night of the poll. Every person who gets a postal vote ought to be called upon to do what every other person in the community does and that is to vote before the close of the poll. It should also be the responsibility of the person who gets a postal vote to see that he gets it back in time. The only fair way to see that every vote is cast before the close of the poll is as we have suggested here. Certainly this will cause some inconvenience along the line, but at the same time it will place the onus on the person concerned to see that he returns it before the close of the poll. There are other factors. 
In a Senate election one cannot possibly commence to fix the quota until every postal vote is in. Therefore if we allow this 10-day period it means that we will be held up until the very last vote is in. This clause will speed up the process. It will make certain that there is no manipulation of after polling voting. It has come to my knowledge from experienced scrutineers that they think that in one or two cases seats have been won or lost because of people who have voted under the present method after the close of the poll. Particularly in close voting this can happen. So this clause makes an attempt not to prevent people from voting but to see that all votes are in on the night the election is held. In practically every country if the votes are not in on the night of the poll they are not counted. That applies to 
Great Britain, Canada and other countries. People know by half past 10 or 11 o'clock at night who has won the election because the votes are in the box. Certainly other countries do not have as elaborate a system as we have in relation to postal voting. But they have this method in a minor or lesser way. There is no reason at all why people who vote should not have their vote in on the night of the election. This system should cause a minimum of inconvenience. It will tie up loose loopholes and might well assist members from all sides of this Parliament in future from losing their seats or assist governments from being defeated by reason of the fact that people are voting in the present method when they should not be voting. That is why these 2 clauses have been introduced. 
Briefly, the reason for closing off this section is to prevent things happening such as that which the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  admitted he was an expert in doing- the canvassing of postal votes, the applications being freely available, the forms being available from year to year. In effect he has been going very close to infringing the Act by canvassing and soliciting postal votes. This is quite contrary to the Act. 
You cannot solicit postal votes, tell people that they can get them and all this kind of thing. Applications have to be made for them. Advertisements like the one I have here come out of this and they run very close to the wind. The situation is that we believe that if a person can prove to the satisfaction of the authorities that an application for a postal vote is necessary in connection with some infringement or otherwise then that person is entitled to have it but there should be no way whereby he can be canvassed against the spirit of the Act, in that way giving an unfair advantage. There are 2 ways to tie up the loose ends and to protect all people. The first is to have a special form for a given year and the second is to make these available only on certain conditions as laid down in the Act. I do not wish tq canvass the matter extensively but I mention for the benefit of honourable members that under section 87A of the Act a person shall not persuade or induce or associate himself with a person in persuading or inducing an elector to make application for a postal vote certificate and postal ballot paper. The penalty is $100 or imprisonment for 1 month. That advertisement by the honourable member for Griffith about postal votes goes terribly close to breaching the Act. 
You are nearly as close as  Senator Webster  is. 
I do not see anything sinister in this proposal. It has become accepted practice in everything from cricket clubs to politics to draw for positions on the ballot papers when elections are being held as it is felt that that brings a degree of fairness because there are those who might vote straight down the ticket. In Senate elections the candidates draw for positions. There are a number of purposes in this. Personally, I am a bit opposed to this proposition. I have a name which starts very high in the alphabet. No doubt I have much to lose by this proposal. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  -So have I. 
The  Deputy Chairman, Mr Armitage,  would not be a superenthusiast in support of the proposal. But as a fair-minded citizen he realises the substance in it. This brings the procedure into line with what is happening in another place in the draw for positions. There is no doubt at all that there have been deliberate selections of candidates whose names begin with letters high in the alphabet for the purpose of getting what is known as the donkey vote. It is estimated to be worth up to 3 per cent on an average which could put some people in or out quite comfortably. Some people have changed their names to 'Aa' and done other things like that in order to get a high position on the ballot paper. Without labouring the matter too far, I do not see that this is not a normal procedural advance in order to give fairness to the electoral system. 
To oppose this proposition, for reasons which I think the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  did not in any way justify, seems to me to be opposing it for the sake of opposition. This brings the method into line with that of the Senate and of practically every other place where a vote is held. We now have the position that we in this House are elected on a system in relation to positions on the ballot paper which is different from that covering those who sit in the other place. This proposal would prevent manipulation of the ballot paper. It would also prevent people changing their names exclusively for this purpose. It would give all comers a fair go. Some of those who seek electoral reform say we should go further. A big section of the Australian public wants a circular ballot paper to overcome the things which we believe can be overcome by drawing for a position on the ballot paper. I think 9 out of 10 Australians would think this is a reasonable proposition. I cannot see why it is opposed by honourable members opposite. 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, I wish to raise a point of procedure with the honourable member for Curtin. I suggest that as clauses 45 to 52 are all covered in the amendments and are all related to the matter that he has just spoken on, we can take one vote on his amendments numbered 32 to 39. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)  -Is the honourable member for Curtin agreeable to that procedure? The Minister is suggesting that a vote be taken on the honourable member's amendments numbered 32 to 39 which deal with clauses 45 to 52 and clauses 65 on the basis that basically they deal with the same question. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)The  question then is that clauses 45 to 52 be agreed to. 
Briefly I want to say that anyone who confuses optional preferential voting with first past the post voting does not understand any voting system. They are fundamentally different. Optional preferential voting for the Senate and the House of Representatives, particularly for the Senate, was in force in this country from 1919 to 1931. 1 would say that it is one of the most essential reforms required in the voting systems of Australia. The Labor Party policy is not first past the post voting, but I would not mislead honourable members by saying it is a policy that many thousands of people in this country want at the present time, particularly settlers from abroad who followed that system. Optional preferential voting is totally different. I will go so far as to say that irrespective of whether this is passed by this Parliament, it ultimately will come in because not one person in the 2 750 000 voters in New South Wales at the time of the Senate election in May voted intelligently or knew the candidates for whom he was voting. I defy the most intelligent person in this country to vote intelligently preferentially for 73 candidates, or in some cases for 7 or 10 candidates. 
The Opposition should reconsider its position because the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is on record as going for a form of optional preferential voting but for twice the number required to fill the vacancies. In its own way that was not a bad proposition. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  has said that the Liberal Party and the Country Party will vigorously oppose this. The Liberal-Country Party Coalition Government introduced the optional preferential voting system of marking ballot papers for the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council election in 1959. The same system is used for the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly elections, also introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Coalition. The only reason that the Opposition is against it is that the Labor Party is introducing it now. Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that optional preferential voting would not change the result of one election in 100 years. The system is by no means new. It was in operation in Queensland many years ago and the record shows that the voting pattern did not change very much. I say to honourable members opposite that in the not far distant future this system will have to be introduced because the public demand for it will be tremendous. Newspapers throughout this country today are clamouring for this reform, as are the people. I suggest the honourable members opposite that they should not consider this matter on the basis of straight-out political opposition to what the Labor Party proposes but should seek to do for the Australian people what was done with respect to voting in the Australian Capital Territory and Papua New Guinea. Surely if this system is good enough for voters in those 2 areas, it ought to be good enough for the Australian public. I move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="094131197504105_95_3_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="094131197504105_95_3_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That clauses 45 to 52 be agreed to. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, I present a copy of the report with maps showing the boundaries of each proposed division by the Distribution Commissioners of South Australia together with copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the Commissioners. 
Ordered that the report and maps be printed. 
As far as I am aware there is nothing in the Electoral Act to prevent the activity of deals in regard to who shall or who shall not contest seats, except that of course coercion cannot be used. It is true that deals in being arranged can place in jeopardy the seats of honourable members concerned. I am reminded of an article which appeared in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 16 April. Evidently it arises out of a deal. It states: 
Lib-CP votes deal 'a sham' -McMillan MP 
A Country Party MP said yesterday a Victorian Liberal-CP deal threatened his seat. 
MR HEWSON said he was bitterly disappointed at the deal. 
The CP Leader,  Mr Anthony,  and the Liberal Leader,  Mr Fraser,  agreed on Tuesday that the two parties would not contest seats against each other where the sitting member was a shadow cabinet member. 
The Parties would be allowed to stand candidates against each other in all other seats. 

 Mr Hewson said the agreement between the two parties was a sham. "I am bitterly disappointed that the Liberal Party intends to contest McMillan against me- a sitting anti-labor member," he said. 'The Liberals say the CP can contest Bendigo and, thereTore, the Liberals can contest McMillan. 'The reality of the situation is that Bendigo is a non-event for the CP, so it 's a pretty poor trade-off. '  'If it's good enough for the Liberals to contest McMillan, then it should be good enough for the CP to contest Wannon 
Good idea-  or Corangamite, or any other Victoria Liberal seat for that matter.' 'The decision, virtually hands McMillan to Labor on a platter, if there is a major election-time electoral 'Mishap'which can easily happen. 
The CP leader,  Mr Anthony,  refused to comment on  Mr  Hewson's  statement. 
But CP officials said  Mr Anthony  was embarrassed by the outburst. 
I say to the honourable member for McMillan that he must have been very unlucky not to have got amongst the 31 shadow ministers, but let me remind him that there is still hope because the shadow ministry is growing every day. Might I also extend to him my sympathy because of his imminent defeat, no doubt, because at the last election he was elected with 26 per cent of the primary vote. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, I present a copy of the report with maps showing the boundaries of each proposed division by the 'distribution commissioners for Tasmania, together with copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the commissioners. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, I present a copy of the report with maps showing the boundaries of each proposed division by the distribution commissioners for Queensland, together with copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the commissioners. 
I rise to reply in the few seconds available to some of the false charges of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  No Government of our time has ever done more for the people in the Northern Territory than the Labor Government. In fact we gave their representative a full vote in this Parliament and the honourable member for the Northern Territory always opposed the proposition. He spoke one way and voted another. Of course, he has a peculiar arrangement with the Australian Country Party. He can say what he likes outside this Parliament as long as he votes with the members of the Party inside the Parliament. The representative of the people of the 
Northern Territory would not have had a vote in this place had it not been for the Labor Party. In addition, after the cyclone Tracy disaster this Government moved with speed to assist the people of the Northern Territory in a way which was commendable and which no Liberal government could ever have done. The honourable member made a violent, vicious and personal attack on us Ministers sitting here tonight. It disturbs me to think that an honourable member who should uphold the dignity of this place stoops to mix dirt at such a late hour. 
I declare that the Inter-State Commission Bill 1 975 is an urgent Bill. 

That the time allotted in connection with the Inter-State Commission Bill 197S be as follows: 
For the remainder of the Committee stage, until 9.20 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 9.30 p.m. this day. 
The Government sought the co-operation of the Opposition in allowing adequate time for debate on the number of amendments that the Opposition proposed to move, but the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who led for the Opposition in the debate on this Bill and who thought more of being at the Country Party Conference at Warrnambool last week than being in this Parliament, was not prepared to accept that offer. The honourable member for Gippsland is well known in this Parliament as one who will never co-operate in making possible reasonable debate in this Parliament. We have the situation tonight of the Opposition, having voted to a man against a BUI which contains 41 clauses and saying that it does not want to have a bar of it, now endeavouring to stonewall the legislation by moving amendments to it in Committee. If the Opposition is opposed to the whole of the BUI why is it trying to amend the BUI in Committee? It is having a couple of bob each way. For once the Oxford graduates are in the background and the larrikin Country Party has taken over. As the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  said, the Liberals, like fawning dogs, are fawning at the feet of the Country Party, because today the larrikins are in control for a brief period. I want honourable members opposite to say why, if they are opposed to the BUI entirely, they want any time to debate it at aU in Committee. The only reason they want time is so that they can stonewall the BUI. 
The Opposition Parties will obstruct and destroy this legislation in another place because they are opposed to any legislation which comes before this House and before the other place which is any good for the Australian people. The fact that they will not negotiate on this matter shows that they have not got an argument. The former Minister at the table is completely unprepared for the debate. In spite of what he was told by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  he does not think that his place is in the Parliament. He would rather be at the Country Party conference at Warrnambool in preference to being here and studying the legislation. Today he wants consideration of the legislation postponed because he said he had not had time to consider it. The honourable member's place is in the Parliament. The new Oxford graduate Leader of the Opposition said so. You be sure to be here when the Parliament is meeting. Stay here and study the legislation and do not run all over the country when you ought to be in this House debating these measures. In view of the obstruction to this BUI of honourable members opposite, we have no alternative tonight to introducing a restriction on debate on this measure. We are not destroying any arguments because the Opposition has not any. If honourable members opposite are opposed to the whole BUI why are they seeking to amend legislation which they say is no good? It is simply because this is frustration de luxe. Even if we accepted these amendments here the Opposition in another place would obstruct just for the sake of obstruction. Tonight the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  got up. I heard him speaking in relation to the first clause. One would think from the way his speech was going that he was debating the whole BUI. 
The Opposition is talking for the sake of talking. We on this side of the Parliament regret that these obstructionist tactics have caused us to take this step. We thought the Opposition would be well behaved on this occasion, but we find that it is back to its old form again- obstructing for obstruction 's sake. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  who is in charge of this Bill has put forward constructive suggestions. Considerable time has been given to debate this measure. Yet we find that there is no desire to do so on the Opposition side of the Parliament. For how long have we to look at the Liberal Party acting like fawning dogs, as the right honourable member for Higgins said. For how long will the Liberal Party kowtow behind the Country Party? Why do not members of the Liberal Party, this once great party, stand up and take their rightful place in the Parliament? When all is said and done there are only 20 members of the Country Party over there and shortly there will be fewer; so why should the Liberal Party, this once great party, kowtow to the Country Party and hold up the business of the Parliament? Tonight I have moved this motion with great reluctance. I hope it will be carried because only in this way can we carry out the forms of the House and give effect to this important legislation. 
I move: 
That the House, at its rising, adjourn until Tuesday, 13 May, at 2.15 p.m. unless  Mr Speaker  shall, by telegram addressed to each member of the House, fix an earlier day of meeting. 
I point out to the House, as an indication of a motion that will come before the House later that, commencing on 19 May, the House will sit on Mondays at 2. 1 5 p.m. I also indicate that commencing on 16 May the House will probably sit on Fridays for a normal sitting day until such time as the legislative program is concluded. I indicate this program to the House in order that members will be aware of the possible sittings of the Parliament when making commitments. As indicated in the circular sent to honourable members some time ago it is proposed that the House will rise on Thursday, 29 May. The changes occasioned by Monday sittings are due to the Family Law Bill and I suggest to honourable members that they hold themselves in readiness to sit for a 5-day week from the commencement of the new sessional period until the end of the legislative program. I expect that will include a normal sitting day on Fridays, which means that the House may not adjourn until 1 1 p.m. on those Fridays. 
in reply- Briefly, I am pleased that the 
Opposition will support the adjournment. The Government has no desire to avoid debating any issue. I am sorry we cannot give another 4 weeks adjournment to allow for another change of Leader of the Liberal Party. I know a fortnight hardly suits but, at the same time, at least it may give the Opposition time to change the Country Party Leader or for people to get used to the new name of the Party, or something to that effect. At the same time, there is no desire on the part of the Government to curtail debate. The previous adjournment of 4 weeks certainly gave the Liberal Party a chance to let the public know what a united party it was. It did not have to do it under the criticism of Parliament. We have no desire to embarrass the Opposition but we feel these adjournments are necessary in order that members may be able to visit their electorates and may be able to attend their normal duties. I have found there has been general satisfaction with the programming of this legislative program and members will have sat many more days in this sessional period by the time it is finished than in any other autumn sessional period. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Customs Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973 I present a copy of the report with maps showing the boundaries of each proposed division by the Distribution Commissioners for Victoria together with copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the Commissioners. I advise the House that the documents will be debated early next week. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the report and maps be printed. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973 I present a copy of the report with maps showing the boundaries of each proposed division by the Distribution Commissioners for New South Wales together with copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the Commissioners. These documents also will be debated, with others, early next week. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the report and maps be printed. 
I can assure the honourable member for Evans that in many progressive democratic countries there is legislation providing for the disclosure of campaign funds notably, of course, Canada, the United States of America and certain European countries. I am also aware that there is a great demand in Australia for the introduction of similar legislation. Recently the Government endeavoured to give effect to legislation whereby political Parties and candidates should reveal the source of their funds. It was vigorously opposed by the Liberal Party and fanatically opposed by the Country Party in this and another place. One is well aware that the Country Party is in the grip of the oil companies and that its campaign machinery is extremely well oiled. The need for this legislation was given further publicity in a statement issued by  Senator Wheeldon  yesterday which referred to what might be called the plot between the Country Party, or the Australian Country Party - 
Between the National Country Party and the Australian Mutual Provident Society. I shall quote and put on the record what  Senator Wheeldon  had to say yesterday. He said: 
I am alarmed to find that there is evidence of a secret alliance between the Australian Mutual Provident Society and the Country Party, and that secret meetings have been held between representatives of the AMP Society and the Country Party. 
I shall not read all the statement.  Senator Wheeldon  then produced a letter written from the Australian Mutual Provident Society, Sydney Cove, on 2 1 April 1975. It was headed: 
Co-operation in Electorates between the Country Party and Insurance Industry. 
It stated: 
On 16th inst. a number of your Country Party Parliamentary colleagues met in the Party room for a discussion with me and a representative of the general insurance industry. During that discussion they made a suggestion for electorate co-operation which this letter implements. 
Present at this discussion were: 
S. Fisher (Mallee, Vic.) R. S. King ( Wimmera, Vic.) P. E. Lucock (Lyne, N.S.W.) S. A. Lusher (Hume, N.S. W.) P. C. Millar (Wide Bay, Qld) F. L. O'Keefe (Paterson, N.S.W.) I. L. Robinson (Cowper, N.S. W.) J. W. Sullivan (Riverina, N.S.W.) 
Is it not remarkable that they are all borderline seat holders and will not be here after the next election? The final paragraph of the letter states: 
I am confident that, given time to put our present plans into operation and with your assistance, the insurance industry will be able to arouse a groundswell of public opinion which will either force the Government to drop its proposal for an AGIO and severely amend its proposed National Compensation Plan or force it from office. 
So now we see exposed this sinister plot between the Country Party and the AMP and other insurance companies. The Country Party is entitled to have the plot but the public is entitled to know what funds are being put into its coffers by the AMP and others. 
The public is entitled to know electorally what assistance the Country Party is getting and is entitled to know that the next Country Party Treasurer will be one who will be subject to the dictates of those who put these funds in. That is precisely the situation. Our legislation was designed to bring into the open the sinister influences behind the Country Party and the Liberal Party in providing their sinews of war- the money. In order to put the record straight, I seek leave of the House to include these incriminating documents in Hansard for the public to see why those opposite do not want the source of their funds to be revealed. 
-I move: 
1 ) That, unless otherwise ordered- 
a) during the consideration of the Family Law Bill 1 974 in committee of the whole House- 
the operation of standing order 9 1 be varied to provide that each Member, including the Minister in charge of the Bill, may speak once only to each clause for a period not exceeding 5 minutes without extension of time; 
clauses 1 to 47 be postponed until after clause 48 on which clause a cognate debate shall take place on both the clause and all proposed amendments to the clause circulated by Members; and 
the time allowed for the cognate debate on clause 48 shall not exceed 5 hours. At the conclusion of that time, or such earlier time as the debate may conclude, the Chair shall put, without further debate, questions on any proposed amendments to the clause which have been circulated by any Members and which are capable of being put and any other questions necessary to conclude consideration of the clause; and 
until the Family Law Bill 1 974 is disposed of- 
the operation of standing order 107 shall be suspended; and 
government business shall take precedence over general business on each sitting day. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
The Family Law Bill has crested great interest throughout the community and in both Houses of the Parliament. Before proposing the reasons for this motion, therefore, perhaps I should indicate the history of the legislation to date. On 17 July 1974 leave was granted to introduce the Bill in the Senate and the second reading was moved on 1 August 1974. 
On 16 August 1974 it was referred by the Senate to the Legislation and General Purpose Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
On 28 November 1974, the House of Representatives received a message from the Senate transmitting the Bill for concurrence and the second reading was moved and adjourned until 1 1 February 1975. 
Subsequently, on 9 April 1975 the second reading of the Bill was carried. 
I have had these details of the progress of the Bill through both Houses compiled by the  Clerk  of the House and, for the benefit of the House, I seek leave to have them incorporated in Hansard. 
Let me say at the outset that I regret that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has turned this debate into a political debate. After all, this is a non-political question. It is a Government Bill, not a private member's Bill, but there is to be a free vote on it. On matters such as abortion reform and on other matters of a social nature it has been the practice of the Government to allow a free vote, but so that the votes may be taken procedures have been laid down and endorsed on party lines. There is nothing unreasonable about that. Let me tell the honourable member that the Government does not desire to restrict debate on this Bill. When all is said and done, nearly 50 hours have been devoted to it, as honourable members know. I do not doubt that every honourable member who wanted to speak at great length on clause 48 of the Bill did so at the second reading stage when no gag was applied. Restriction of speaking time on this issue was a matter for voluntary individual decision. So despite what the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party of Australia has said, there has been no restriction on the right of honourable members in this place to say their piece. 
It is true that the Government intends to suspend standing order 107 because it believes that this is a measure of great importance and one that should receive precedence at this stage. I understand from honourable members from all sides of the Parliament that there is a terrific public clamour for this Bill to be settled one way or the other. It is all right for the honourable member for New England to say that no matter of public importance will be raised, but I do not think that he has much control over the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and others who might rise. I understand that honourable members on that side of the Parliament are not tied to the party line and can do as they like. The honourable member for New England spoke of my being rolled in Caucus. That is better than being rolled in the Liberal caucus. There your head goes too. I, however, am still around. 
I do not want to frighten honourable members but I love this place, and Monday sittings do not worry me in the slightest. In fact I am one who will work a 7-day week any tick of the clock and enjoy every minute of it. So very shortly when we are here at 11 o'clock on Friday night honourable members will know why I am the only one laughing. The  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party said that I was trying to curtail debate on the adjournment motion. I was not present at the meeting of the Standing Orders Committee when these changes were discussed but I know that a unanimous decision was made on this matter and it was supported by, amongst others, the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  All I can suggest is that the honourable member have a chat with him occasionally so that he can bring him up to date. We do not like to see disunity on these issues among honourable members opposite. 
It is interesting to note the reformation of the honourable member for New England. In all the time he was on this side of the Parliament his Government never brought on a business day. Adjournment debates were held at 2 o'clock or 3 o'clock in the morning when the previous Government got around to them- once every Pancake Day. No Government ever subjugated an Opposition more than the one of which the honourable member was a senior Minister. As to the proposal to suspend standing order107I can only say that this proves the old axiom that there always has to be a first time. On this occasion it is done with the best of intentions. No matter what charges may be levelled by honourable members opposite in respect of the reasons for this, it is to give every honourable member who wants it the opportunity to speak on this Bill. Sixty more honourable members will be able to speak on this measure. Quite frankly, if honourable members cannot make their position clear in 5 minutes they will not be much more impressive over the next 5 minutes. I will go so far as to say that every honourable member who speaks on this clause will have spoken extensively on the Bill previously. Sixty members will be allowed to speak on it. That will bring the number up to considerably in excess of the number I mentioned earlier. 
This Bill has been before a Senate Committee. It has been debated at length in the Senate. It has had a lengthy debate here. There is no reason for saying that there has not been adequate discussion. I will go so far as to say that practically every honourable member of this Parliament now knows how he is going to vote on the amendments and everything else. But that does not stop honourable members from having their say if they so desire. To try to hold the matter up and allow honourable members to speak for 10 minutes each- the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party said that he did not disagree with a limitation of 5 hours- would merely reduce the number of speakers. The Government is treating this Bill as an urgent Bill. The public requires a decision. Members of the Parliament require a decision. No doubt the Senate desires to consider any amendments that may be brought forward. I think that every fair-minded member of this Parliament will realise the intentions behind the motion- to bring this Bill forward, to debate it, vote on it and reach a decision at the earlier possible time. That is the Government's only purpose. I will take into consideration what the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  said as the debate unfolds. 
Question put: 
That the motion be agreed to. 

That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent a Minister moving the following motion in a committee of the whole House at the commencement of the consideration of the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 197S: 'That the Bill be amended by omitting the word "Office" (wherever occurring) and substituting the word "Corporation". '. 
As indicated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during question time yesterday, the Government proposes to alter the name of the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. This will avoid possible confusion in the minds of policy holders as to the government insurance body with which they hold their policies. Several States have bodies with a name similar to that which was suggested for the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office. For example, there is the Government Insurance Office of New South Wales. Consequently, such confusion could have occurred. To effect such a change in the Bill would result in many excess questions being proposed during the Committee stages of the debate, thus wasting time. Therefore, I have moved this motion which is procedural in nature and merely clears the way for an omnibus question to be put deleting the word 'Office' wherever it occurs in the Bill and substituting the  word  'Corporation'. This further motion would be proposed during the Committee stages of the Bill. .  Mr LYNCH  (Flinders-Deputy Leader of the Opposition) (3.30)- The Opposition Parties do not speak against the motion which is before the House. We recognise and understand the reasons which the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has introduced in moving this motion. All I want to put on the record is simply this: It is a very clear reflection of the Government's precipitate haste in introducing this legislation that the Government has not even had the capacity to correctly name the Australian Government Insurance Office. I think this is typical of the manner in which this Bill has been introduced. But because of the potential confusion which the original name would certainly have caused we do not intend to vote against the motion in this House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Speaker, with a remarkable degree of anticipation I thought I might get a question of this nature so I have come prepared for it. I advise the honourable member for Macquarie that the total amount paid by the Australian Government in respect of annual rental to all insurance companies is $14,695,000 for 2 990 000 square feet of space and the amounts paid to insurance companies represents about 29 per cent of the current annual rental commitments of $49.5m. The annual rental paid in New South Wales is $3,444,000; in Victoria $3,159,000; in Queensland $474,000; in South Australia $1,550,000; in Western Australia $332,000; in Tasmania $270,000; in the Australian Capital Territory $4,612,000; and in the Northern Territory $854,000. Of the total amount, that well known company and protector of the people's rights, the Australian Mutual Provident Society, receives an annual rental from the Government of $5,189,000; the National Mutual Life  Association of  Australasia Ltd receives $2,503,000; and the Mutual Life and Citizens' Assurance Co. Ltd receives $3,172,000. Between them the major companies receive $11,841,000 of the $14m. In New South Wales the AMP receives $2,303,609 and the major companies, between them, receive $3,443,666. In Victoria the AMP receives $1,260,800 and the National Mutual $1,459,910. This pattern continues right throughout Australia and the great beneficiaries of the Government's rental bill are, to a great extent, the insurance companies. 
I turn now to the Australian Capital Territory where the MLC receives $2,544,753 in annual rental from the Australian Government and that insurance company houses the central office of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation in Tower Building. It is a wonder the company does not refuse to take the rent- it is so public minded. Even in the Northern Territory the amount paid to insurance companies by the Australian Government in annual rental is $854,033. I suppose it must be the first time in history that the Government is subsidising a campaign against itself. It is important to realise that the amounts I have indicated are not necessarily the absolute total amounts received by the insurance companies concerned in respect of rent paid for space occupied by the Australian Government. The insurance companies may be making more money, for all I know, on the roundabout. To sum up, these great protectors of the people's rights are doing pretty well out of a socialist government. I put these figures on the record in order that honourable members will know the true situation. I thank the honourable member for Macquarie for his very intelligent question. 
As I am not a walking encyclopaedia I cannot answer that question off the top of my head. I suggest that the honourable member put his question on the notice paper and I will be pleased to answer it. 
There are 24 countries which either require or permit the printing of party affiliations on the ballot paper. They include Denmark, West Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. In answer to the second part of the question I would also like to say - 
Rarely have I heard a more politicalor phoney proposition put forward. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who has just spoken, mentioned the need to speed up the debate on the Family Law Bill. He also went to great lengths to impress on us how it must not be delayed; how he needs it and how the Opposition wants it. Yet, on page 2527 of Hansard of 20 May 1975 at about 10.30 p.m.-this was last night- it states: 
Motion ( by  Mr Killen  ) put: 
That progress be reported. 
The honourable member for Moreton was not prepared to conclude the debate on the Family Law Bill last night. But this morning he has a few new arguments, so away we go- first cab off the rank. If the honourable member was fair dinkum last night he would have stayed all night but he wanted to go home at 10.35 p.m. Today, with all that pomposity that can come only from a small debts lawyer, he stands up in this Parliament and tells us that we have to proceed with the Family Law Bill without further delay. I suggest that before he supports motions of this type in the future he will remember what he said about 10.30 p.m. last night. I think that the motion moved by the honourable member for Moreton last night completely destroys the arguments he has put forward this morning. It is true that I moved a motion in this Parliament on 15 May 1975. It set out in some detail the arrangements which would be made to cover the debate on the Family Law Bill. Honourable members are all aware of that motion. Paragraph (1) (b) (ii) states: 
Government business shall take precedence over general business on each sitting day. 
No suggestion was made of what Government business would be introduced. The text of the resolution that was passed by our Party and which was given effect to in this resolution was that legislation under the heading of Government business considered to be urgent would be dealt with during the course of this debate. I do not know about members of the National Country Party of Australia but we on this side of the House thought that the Bill dealing with grants to the States for the beef industry was legislation for which the beef industry had been clamouring for a long time. It is significant that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  did not move the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders until after the Government had introduced the States Grants (Beef Industry) Bill 1975. There is apparently one law for the cockies and another for the rest of the community. The continuation of the debate on the Family Law Bill could have waited until doomsday as long as the beef industry Bill was introduced. One can see from that the phoney nature of what has been put before the Parliament this morning. I suggest that the Country Party and the Liberal Party want to hide from the light of day their general disagreement on a fair and equitable redistribution of electoral boundaries, which is another matter that is to be brought forward today. That is an important matter. People want it to be dealt with. It is legislation that is of great importance. The matters that I have mentioned this morning, including the matter concerning the beef industry, are important. The Country Party may not think that they are important but I do. I think that they are matters that must be considered urgently by this Parliament. The fact that we have to defend them against the actions of the Country Party indicates that it is using the debate on the Family Law Bill for political purposes. 
The delay in the continuation of the debate on the Family Law Bill will not be very great by reason of the fact that a number of important Bills is to be introduced and that there are also to be debates on electoral redistributions in 2 States. The debate on the Family Law Bill will then proceed. If 25 minutes of the time of the House had not been wasted on this matter another dozen clauses probably could have been dealt with. It is of no use honourable members opposite, particularly the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party and the honourable member for Moreton, grandstanding on the Family Law Bill. The Government intends to push it through as speedily as possible. That is why we have allowed plenty of time this week for the debate on it. The debate on it has not been curtailed in any way. There has been a reasonable presentation of the cases for and against it. Five hours were alloted to the debate on clause 48 of the Bill, but I think that only 2 hours were taken up in debate on it. So adequate time has been set aside. 
The honourable member for Moreton said that he has been restricted to speaking for 5 minutes on each clause. I think that once or twice last night he could not go the distance; yet he is now saying that he has been restricted. The fact of the matter is that the Family Law Bill is not supposed to be a lawyers' paradise for argument in the Parliament. I do not know whether the honourable member for Moreton would want to talk five or ten times on every clause in respect of legal matters, but the fact of the matter is that no parliament could cope with that type of debate. I believe that the motion that has been moved this morning is phoney. It just seeks to give the impression that the Labor Government is holding up the passage of the Family Law Bill, which is not the case. In addition, the insincerity of honourable members opposite has been proved by the fact that the honourable member who seconded the motion wanted to curtail the debate on the Family Law Bill at about 10.35 last night. I repeat that the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party evidently thinks this morning that the beef industry is more important, as I do, than other legislation and that priority should be given to the introduction and debating of legislation this day. Therefore I suggest to honourable members opposite that they should accept the explanation that I have given and allow the Parliament to get on with all speed to the continuation of the debate on the Family Law Bill and to the consideration and finalisation of other business and not hold up the time of this Parliament unnecessarily for about 25 minutes on a motion on which they know that they have not much support. I noticed that when the Attorney-General^  Mr Enderby)  moved at about 10.50 last night that progress be reported 3 very prominent members of the Country Party voted for the motion. So everybody is not unanimous that all other business should be put off. Those 3 members of the Country Party were the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock). 
-I voted that the debate should proceed. 
If the honourable member for Moreton checks Hansard he will find that my name is listed with the 59 honourable members who voted for the continuation of the debate last night. The point I make is that half the members of the Country Party did not want to go on with the debate last night. I am not being critical of them for that. They knew that they would have ample time to continue the debate today. But it is of no use the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party coming into this chamber today and saying that the Government is trying to hold up the debate. Those 3 members of his Party thought that the time at which that proposition was put last night was a reasonable time to go home, and good luck to them. Other honourable members, including myself, thought that the debate ought to have gone on a little longer and voted accordingly. Honourable members opposite should not forget that the debate on the Family Law Bill may well go on until this time next week. Would the members of the Country Party be prepared to put off consideration of the beef industry Bill until that time? Some priority must be given to important legislation and the Government has adopted that pattern in respect of this matter. 
I suggest to honourable members opposite that they have made their futile protest and that what they should do now is accept the program as it has been put down and proceed with the debates. With due respect to the huge shadow Cabinet opposite, the new Leader of the Opposition and the half-dozen different Country Parties throughout the country, this Government still controls the business of this House and we are not prepared to allow it to be taken out of our hands. When a legislative program is laid down the business of the Parliament will be continued along those lines. Consequently the program as outlined will proceed. I suggest to honourable members opposite that they should accept as such the importance of the legislation to which we have given priority, debate what is before them and then get on with the Family Law Bill. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Sinclair's)  be agreed to. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  have very short memories. First of all, neither the Leader of the National Country Party nor the Leader of the Opposition is on the list of speakers to take part in this debate. So they put these phony propositions and half baked arguments in support of a proposal which they know is contrary to the practice followed for years by their own Government when they were in office. What should be known is that distribution commissioners are appointed for each State. Each State must be voted upon separately. In any one vote, the legislation with regard to a State may be rejected. 
The practice in this Parliament has always been that the proposals are presented and debated separately. I remind the Leader of the National Country Party that in 1968 the present honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  brought redistribution proposals to this Parliament in precisely the same way as we are introducing them today. If we go back further to 1964-1 think it was- when  Mr Freeth  was the responsible Minister, redistribution proposals were brought in in the same fashion. The Leader of the Opposition has not done his homework. I will tell honourable members why. The Leader of the Opposition has to do what the National Country Party tells him on this matter. I say to the lame duck Liberal member from Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  who is trying to interject that the Liberal Party in Queensland accepted the proposals but the National Country Party knocked them back. The situation is that there has been no attempt to hide anything in regard to the proposals. The legislation is being debated precisely as laid down by the practices of this Parliament. The Bills will be introduced separately and they will be debated separately. I would have thought that honourable members opposite would have appreciated an extra day to look at the redistribution proposals for New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. Had we brought them in today they would have said possibly that we did not give them adequate time. 
Let it be clear- the records of the Parliament are there for all to see- that the practice being followed in regard to presentation of these reports is the one that the Leader of the National Country Party adopted when in government, the one that the honourable member for Gippsland adopted when he was in government and the one that the Leader of the Opposition supported as a member of this Parliament. So why do they not stand up in the debate and put their arguments about what has been done. Honourable members opposite have criticised the proposals. I do not intend to take advantage of the situation but charges were made. It was said that these were gerrymanders and that kind of thing. I cite  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras, the well known supporter of the Liberal Party and consultant to the Liberal Party on electoral affairs. He said that in overall political terms - 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I was saying that the Leader of the Opposition made a charge that these were gerrymanders.  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras said that they are the fairest set of boundaries ever brought to an Australian Parliament. The honourable member says that there must be a redistribution after the census. The Liberal-Country Party Government did not worry about that. It did not even give Western Australia the seat to which it was entitled. The census does not mean that there has to be a redistribution. It is only necessary in those States where there is an increase or decrease in the number of seats. But even that did not worry the Liberal-Country Party Government because it did not give Western Australia - 
I bow to your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  but with due respect I think that honourable members opposite made almost second reading speeches on the electoral Bills. The question of a census was raised. I just point out the legal position in regard to these matters. A redistribution does not necessarily follow - 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I just mention, in view of the charges that have been made, that the practice that I followed here has been followed since 1903 in regard to the production of reports of distribution commissioners. It has been followed this time in accordance with the practice of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. The Leader of the National Country Party cannot deny it, neither can the honourable member for Gippsland and others, because it is recorded in the records of the Parliament for all to see. In addition, I repeat that these matters must be deliberated upon separately. Without pre-judging what you might say,  Mr Speaker,  I would think that on redistribution proposals for a certain State it would be impossible to make a speech without making passing reference at least to what is taking place in the overall position. Consequently, to say that this would restrict debate is completely false. 
I suggest to the Leader of the National Country Party and the Leader of the Opposition that instead of hiding their disunity on this issue they should put their names on the list of speakers and let us hear what they have to say instead of raising this side issue and then evading the question. They do not want to speak on it because it is obvious that there are differences. This is just a cover up by honourable members opposite to hide the discontent and disunity behind the scenes on this issue. For that reason they have sought to transgress the Standing Orders. I ask honourable members opposite to tell me how the Parliament could reject or accept the various motions if they cannot be debated independently for the various States. As every honourable member knows, it is possible for debate to take place on any one State. It is of no use saying, for instance, that certain things have happened in Tasmania and South Australia and the National Country Party is affected, because that Party does not have a member from either State. The half baked National Country Party now in this resolution is protesting about boundaries in Tasmania and South Australia. I can understand the Liberal Leader being concerned there, but the National Country Party does not have an interest because it holds no seats there. I can understand why the Leader of the National Country Party does not want to speak on this measure later. He is too busy in Western Australia trying to sort out his Party in the Parliament, let alone in the electorates. 
I was just making passing reference,  Mr Speaker.  I know that you did not do it purposely but you saved the Leader of the National Country Party from hurt when I mentioned Western Australia. Let me reiterate this phoney proposition. The Leader of the Opposition said that the motion will not be carried. He had no chance of carrying it at any stage because he does not have the numbers to suspend Standing Orders at any time. Whenever the Opposition moves the suspension of Standing Orders on any issue, particularly electoral boundaries, one knows that it is a phoney proposition designed to hide something in their parties. They want to hide nothing more from the light of day than the fact that the Liberals are a tame cat party on this issue. That is why they seek to suspend Standing Orders now, to try to hide this discontent. Liberal members are saying to me in the passages- they are almost crying to me- 'Do you think you can do something? These boundaries are so good for the Liberal Party but the National Country Party will not let us accept them'. The honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has cried his eyes out ever since he heard this decision in Queensland. 
I mention these matters in order to show that there is nothing sinister about this. Honourable members may discuss them, one after the other. One of the honourable members who will support the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders asked us to suspend everything half an hour ago to bring on the debate on the Family Law Bill. Now where does he stand on the matter? 
Question put: 
That the Standing Orders be suspended. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives approves of the redistribution of the State of South Australia into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs A. J. Walsh, G. H. CampbellKennedy and F. W. Summers, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the House of Representatives on IS April 197S, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted. 
The Government, having considered the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of South Australia, as tabled in this House on 15 April 1975 pursuant to Section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners, now recommends approval of the Distribution Commissioners' proposals. In the following remarks, I shall be placing in their proper context not only the redistribution proposals for South Australia, but also those relating to the other States concerned, since the Government intends also to move very shortly for approval of the proposals relating to Tasmania, Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales, which have also been tabled in this House. 
Prior to the amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act last year, Distribution Commissioners were permitted to draw divisional boundaries that could result in enrolments for divisions being up to 20 per cent above or below the quota applying to the State. Since the 1968 redistribution, which observed the previous guidelines, the consequent inequalities m enrolments have progressively worsened as a result of trends in population growth within each of the four most heavily populated States. We now have a clearly unjust and indefensible situation in each of these States, with some electorates having current enrolments which are approximately double those of other electorates. For example, as at 25 April 1 975, enrolments for divisions in New South Wales varied from 83 941 in Mitchell to 46 975 in Darling; in Victoria, from 87 522, Diamond Valley, to 49 200, Wimmera; in Queensland from 94 024, McPherson to 46 456, Maranoa; in South Australia, from 83 388, Bonython to 49 561, Wakefield. In no less than 52 of the 109 electorates in these States the enrolments vary from the quota by over 10 per cent- a situation which is clearly unjust and which must be righted as soon as possible. 
The Government does not agree with all proposals of the Distribution Commissioners, but it believes the Commissioners to be men of competence and integrity who have performed their difficult duties with complete impartiality. In the Government's view, there is no reason why the Liberal Party should not support a speedy adjustment of the inequitable situation which I have just outlined, since the existing boundaries discriminate against the party in most States. This point is worth stressing, given the frequent assertions which have been made by Country Party spokesmen to the effect that the percentage of seats won by the Government and Opposition in recent elections has accurately reflected the number of votes polled. Such assertions obscure the degree to which present disparities as between divisional enrolments within each State have assisted the Country Party. 
For example, at the 1972 House of Representatives elections the Country Party polled 9.44 per cent of the votes, yet was able to win 16 per cent of the seats. Again, to express the anomaly in another way, at the 1974 House of Representatives elections the average enrolment of the 66 electorates won by the Australian Labor Party was 63 458, while for the 40 electorates won by the Liberal Party the average enrolment was 64 045. Yet for the 21 electorates won by the Country Party the average enrolment was only 54 708. It is therefore understandable that the Country Party should regard this situation as highly satisfactory, but there is no reason for any Government committed to the elimination of electoral inequalities and anomalies to share this satisfaction with the 'status quo '. 
While taking this opportunity to reiterate the Government's determination to uphold the principle of one vote one value, I also remind honourable members that under the Act as amended it remains possible for the Distribution Commissioners to fix the boundaries for divisions in a way which would result in enrolments varying from the State quota by up to 10 per cent, that is to say, an overall variation of up to 20 per cent. The degree to which the Distribution Commissioners choose to exercise this discretionary power is left entirely to their independent judgment. The Government believes that, in the case of the Distribution Commissioners for South Australia- and, indeed, for the other States also- that judgment was exercised with the utmost competence. 
Let me now indicate some major features of the South Australian redistribution proposals in particular, in order to demonstrate that these proposals are unquestionably fair and reasonable. Under the proposals presented by the Distribution Commissioners for South Australia, all 12 existing divisions have been retained in name, although boundary alterations are proposed in every case. It is proposed that 2 of the existing divisions, Adelaide and Hindmarsh, should retain all their existing electors but should also take in additional electors from other divisions. Each of the other 10 proposed divisions takes in a substantial majority of the electors currently enrolled in those divisions. The proposals make a significant reduction to the overall range of percentage variations from the quota. Thus, taking enrolments as at December 1974 on which the proposals were based, percentage variations from the quota for existing divisions range from 21.88 per cent below quota for the Wakefield division to 29.65 per cent above quota for the Bonython division. Furthermore, 2 other existing divisions, Angas and Kingston, also currently vary from the quota by over 10 per cent. 
Under the proposals now before the House, the size of variations from the quota would be substantially reduced. The maximum enrolment proposed is 68 372, or 8.74 per cent above quota, for the division of Adelaide, while the minimum proposed enrolment is 57 015, or 9.32 per cent below quota, for the division of Kingston. Apart from the divisions of Adelaide and Kingston, proposed variations from the quota for the remaining 10 divisions range from 6.66 per cent above for the division of Hawker to 9.02 per cent below for the division of Bonython. The need for a redistribution is exemplified by the projected enrolments as at May 1977, the approximate date of the next Federal elections, which show that compared with the enrolments as at 25 April 1974 the following changes will take place: Bonython, 83 388, will increase to 90 000; Kingston, 72 830, will increase to 78 000; and Sturt, 69 0 1 1, will increase to 72 000. 
To sum up, the Government is quite satisfied that the proposed boundaries for South Australia demonstrably promote the objective of electoral equality to a far greater degree than do the existing boundaries in that State. 
Criticism was made earlier today about boundaries. I want to quote from a document entitled 'A Fair Redistribution' issued by Malcolm Mackerras who I would say has been a consultant to the Liberal Party in days gone by. He said, in part: 
In overall political terms the 197S redistribution is the fairest set of proposed boundaries ever to be presented to any Australian Parliament in my lifetime. 
I see that he nods approval from the back of the House. He continued: 
The commissioners have bent over backwards to avoid any suggestion of gerrymander. 
My impression is that they have set out to draw boundaries so patently fair that rejection by the Senate would reflect discredit on the Senate, not the Commissioners. 
Later on in the document he dealt with South Australia. After referring to the seat of Angas, he said: 
All other seats would stay at the same political strength. 
The really interesting point is that the commissioners have left the marginal Liberal seat of Stun at the same strength. It would have been very easy to turn it into a Labor seat. 
There is a summary from a person who I suppose would not be committed to the Labor Party. That summary places on record the true situation. In these circumstances I have moved that this House approve the report of the Distribution Commissioners for South Australia dated 7 April 1975.1 seek leave of the House to incorporate the latest enrolment figures available for all divisions in South Australia as at 25 April 1975 as provided to me by  Mr Frank  Ley, the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. 
I certainly congratulate Government supporters on the excellent case they have put for a fairer electoral redistribution in Australia. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  leading for the Opposition, made a remarkable speech. He hardly mentioned the State we are dealing with- South Australia. But commencing with his remarks and those of other honourable members on the Opposition side, there was always a veiled attack on the integrity of the distribution commissioners. Yet no one has personally questioned their appointment, even to this stage. The insinuation and the statements that these boundaries were to be rigged for the Labor Party is not an attack on me; it is an attack on the distribution commissioners. 
The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  was one who made such a statement. He said that we were here to rig the electorates. He is a former Minister in charge of electoral affairs. He knows full well that the Act prohibits a Minister from giving instructions to distribution commissioners in any way. The commissioners are completely independent. Whilst allowing for the fact that some of those opposite are not so well informed, statements coming like that from a former Minister for the Interior, knowing the integrity of commissioners who have been appointed from time to time and on this occasion, do little credit to him or to the parties concerned. I might say that it is no good begging the question. Before the commissioners were appointed, the National Country Party announced that it would not support the new boundaries at all. We can take if from that that if every electorate had been drawn to give the National Country Party a majority, it still would not accept the redistribution. Now we see this timid, tame cat Liberal Party. The Liberal Party has not the courage of  Sir Charles  Court in Western Australia. The Liberal Party capitulate here. No wonder the Liberal Party is in opposition. It believes in standing up for the rigged boundaries which are the only ones on which the National Country Party can exist. Therefore there has been no sound reasoning by the Opposition on these proposals. 
Whatever might be said about whether or not the overall electoral redistribution suits certain States, the fact is that not one criticism has been levelled against the fairness and impartiality of the electoral redistribution in South Australia which we are discussing. The Leader of the Liberal Party in that State told his people that under these proposals the Liberals would win 7 out of 12 seats, and today in this Parliament we see the Liberal Party and the National Country Party lined up and opposing boundaries which their own leader says would give them rather than the Labor Party a majority in South Australia. None of the National Country Party members ever talks about the gerrymanders of  Mr BjelkePetersen,  the Premier of Queensland, who wins with 1 9 per cent or 20 per cent of the vote. I never hear the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  criticise him. I suppose that every one of us in this Parliament would be happy if we could rig the boundaries of electorates like the National Country Party Premier of Queensland does. They have a tame cat Liberal Party up there. They take it on the chin and they have been put completely out of office by rigged boundaries, even in the centre of metropolitan districts up there. 
The honourable member for Gwydir hardly mentioned South Australia at all. He said: 'I want to talk about the electorate of Gwydir'. I said: 'Why not mention South Australia?' He said: 'Do not tell me that I cannot talk about Tasmania'. He, the former Minister, had not read the reports. He talked about having an entrenched Labor Government and all those kinds of things. He knows full well that the conditions are laid down in the Act and, with the exception of the 10 per cent variation in quota, they were put there by his Party mainly in 1965.  His  statements are hardly worthy of consideration because, although he was a former Minister, he showed an abysmal lack of knowledge of the electoral system and how it works. 
I come now to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  I always listen to South Australian Opposition members speaking on this subject because we have all heard of the playmander under  Sir Thomas  Playford. I understand that the honourable member for Angas was a member of the Upper House in South Australia when  Sir Thomas  Playford was in his prime. At that time 32 per cent of the people lived in the country and 68 per cent in the city. He rigged the boundaries accordingly and his Party was in government all the time despite the fact that it had a majority only once in 9 elections. So when South Australian Opposition members talk about rigging boundaries honourable members want to prick up their ears and listen because I think that they could give BjelkePetersen a few ideas. 
The honourable member said that every borderline seat had been strengthened for the Labor Party. That is a completely and utterly false and misleading statement. In Queensland Dawson, Capricornia and Leichhardt are all better for the Opposition. Even up there we find the Liberals skiting that they can win them all from the Labor Party. We also find that in Victoria Henty has been accepted as one seat that the Labor Party could not hold under these proposals. In New South Wales the seat of Evans, which will be named Concord, is also one that has been weakened immeasurably and made more difficult for the Labor Party to win. In Eden-Monaro the National Country Party are skiting even now that they could win it under these boundaries. So that gives the lie to what the honourable member said. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  knows that he will double his majority. It is only about 700 but he will double it. That is a good kick along for him because he was lucky to win in the first fight. Yet the National Country Party members intend to vote against all these proposals. Even if everything that was said in respect of these other areas was right, what does it have to do with South Australia? That is what we are discussing. The fairest electoral redistribution ever introduced into an Australian Par.liament is to be rejected because the National Country Party has told the Liberal Party what to do. 
Mention was made of the problem of huge electorates. The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  who represents magnificently 325 000 square miles of territory, told honourable members how they can represent huge country districts. I will give honourable members the secret to it. First of all the people in those big districts want to elect a Labor member because he is the one who can do these things. Take my distinguished friend the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard).  He represents ah area about one and a half times the size of Queensland, and does it magnificently without complaint. Yet people up there in the Flynn area say that it is too big when it is a quarter the size. Honourable members should have a look at these 2 men. They stand supreme in their electorates as outstanding representatives of huge areas. They are returned again and again with overwhelming majorities. So what is aU this talk about not being able to represent big districts? 
The second solution is, as the honourable member for Grey mentioned, that country members, and all honourable members for that matter, are entitled to increased travelling facilities to get around their electorates and see people. This Government is endeavouring to provide those increased facilities. No one can tell me that the answer to these problems is t o load the electorates. That is undemocratic, it is unjust and would not stand up to constitutional challenge. The answer to these problems in South Australia has been provided by the Distribution Commissioners. Insinuations have been made about their integrity, and made on false premises. The Opposition says that it will oppose the boundaries in South Australia. Not one reason has been given as to why they should not be supported except that we know that behind the scenes the 
National Country Party has stuck a gun at the head of the Liberal Party and said: 'We will blow out what brains you have if you accept them'. That is the situation. 
Let me summarise the matter briefly. The debate from this side of the House showed a great knowledge of the problem. I doubt whether some honourable members on the other side have even read the submissions. Certainly not one  speaker  on that side said one thing to justify voting against the South Australian redistribution proposals at this time. The public should know that every electoral reform brought down by this Government, even for drawing for positions on the ballot paper, is looked upon as a sinister attack on the democratic voting system. Not one reform can get through this Parliament because the Liberal Party kowtows to the National Country Party on everything from a draw from the ballot box to reasonable and fair electoral boundaries. In the next day or so other legislation will be brought in here and we will see again how no reform can be passed because the National Country Party will not let the Liberal Party do so. At least the deposed leader over there gave:*things a go occasionally, but the present leader is a tame cat in the grip of the National Country Party on these issues. 
However, I congratulate the commissioners in South Australia for bringing down recommendations that have won the support of even the Liberal Party opponents in that State. I reiterate that the boundaries are the fairest that can be presented and they have not been presented for any particular reason. These boundary proposals are being introduced into this Parliament in the order in which they were presented to me and in which I believe they should be debated. The South Australian redistribution is a fair and just one for the Parties. I would not say that I was exceedingly happy with everything in the proposals, but we have appointed the referees and we accept their verdict. If these proposals are rejected in this Parliament at any stage it will be because of the attitude of the Liberal Party. From memory I doubt whether the Labor Party has ever rejected any redistribution proposals put by the other side. The Liberal Party, at the behest of the National Country Party, is determined to have a gerrymandered system whereby some honourable members will represent twice the number that others represent. Ere much time has passed by in Queensland there will be over 100 000 people in the McPherson electorate alone, and National Country Party members will be running around with about half that number to represent. I know that there is reason to give the present National Country Party members fewer voters to represent: They cannot look after it any more. They are flat out dealing with the numbers they have. But that is no reason to wreck the electoral system. We cannot cater for individuals on that basis. 
I know full well that the motion will be carried here because the majority of members of this House are exceedingly intelligent and they will support it and vote for it. I am not hopeful about the other place because they know only from hour to hour what they will do. As I mentioned earlier, these boundaries are satisfactory in the view of the Commissioners. I submit them to the Parliament and I hope that they will be accepted. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Daly's)  be agreed to. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives approves of the redistribution of the State of Tasmania into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs J. R. Lennard, C. C. A. Butler and P. W. Fletcher, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the House of Representatives on 17 April 1975, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted. 
The Government, having considered the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Tasmania, as tabled in this House on 1 7 April 1975, pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners, now recommends approval of the Distribution Commissioners' proposals. As at December 1974, enrolments for divisions in Tasmania varied from 45 846 in the division of Bass- 6.8 1 per cent below quota- to 52 206 in the division of Braddon 6. 1 1 per cent above quota. The quota was ascertained to be 49 198. These variations have been reduced in the Distribution Commmissioners' proposals, with the maximum proposed enrolment being 51 394-4.46 per cent above quota- for the division of Braddon and the minimum 46 148-6.20 per cent below quota- for the division of Wilmot. 
Although the reduction in the degree of variation from the quota is not large, it is worth noting that the Distribution Commissioners have nevertheless proposed variations less sizeable than those proposed for South Australia and Queensland, as one might expect, when dealing with a State like Tasmania, where population movements do not fluctuate so dramatically as in other States. It is also worth remarking that the Distribution Commissioners' comments contained in paragraphs 9 to 12 on page 7 of thenreport, indicate that they have approached their task with commendable care and objectivity. Twenty-one suggestions, comments and objections relating to the proposed redistribution were lodged with the Commissioners all of which received full consideration. In this regard paragraph 10 states: 
Several objections were received to the proposed amendment to boundaries between Denison and Franklin. Following careful analysis of the situation, your Distribution Commissioners could find no reason to amend their original proposals in this area, which made use of natural boundaries such as rivers and streams, and are in full accord with all the criteria outlined in Section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
Accordingly I have moved that this House approve the report of the Distribution Commissioners for Tasmania, dated 15 April 1975. 1 ask leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard the latest enrolment figures available for all divisions as at 24 April 1975 in Tasmania as provided by the Chief Austraiian Eelectoral Officer. 
in reply- I wish briefly to reply to what has been said. Firstly, let me say again that no matter what the Opposition thinks of the redistribution proposals no substantial reason has been given why those proposals applying to Tasmania should not be adopted. It is all very well to say that a redistribution should not take place in Tasmania but, as the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  said, if we were to work on that basis a redistribution never would take place in Tasmania and no anomaly ever would be corrected. The adoption of the argument put forward by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  would mean that for all time there would be no change whatever in the boundaries of the Tasmanian electorates; It is as well for the people of Tasmania to know that. 
The situation is that anomalies existed in relation to the Tasmanian electorates and, as other redistributions were being done, it was thought that this was an appropriate time to adjust those anomalies. Honourable members have said that the composition of the electorates and the voting pattern of the electorates, judged on the latest available figures, are much the same. So it cannot be said that there will be any Party advantage appertaining to the Tasmanian proposals or, for that matter, any of the proposals. The members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party are always comparing the divisions in Tasmania with those in other areas of the Commonwealth. That is not even a fair comparison because, as the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  has said, the Constitution lays down that Tasmania must have at least 5 seats. So the areas of the Tasmanian seats matter little in any comparison with those of other larger electorates throughout the Commonwealth. 
The honourable member for Bennelong, in an amazing way, cited the case of the electorate of Kalgoorlie having the smallest enrolment. He has forgotten to take into consideration that, amongst other things, I think the largest Aboriginal population in Australia resides in the electorate of Kalgoorlie and that those people are not compelled to enrol. In addition, Kalgoorlie has the largest population of all the electorates. Kalgoorlie may have the smallest enrolment, as the honourable member has said- I do not know whether that is factual- but it also has the largest population. Consequently to make such a comparison completely destroys the argument put forward. 
I listened with interest to the remarks of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  I will give him the good oil: I am not in the habit of spending my annual holidays running round electoral offices. I do not fish and I do not play bowls but I certainly do not visit electoral offices as a pastime. I cannot remember when I met any of the Surveyors-General last and I cannot recollect having run all round Australia. I do not know who has fed him that information, but I suggest to him that it is very inaccurate. Perhaps he might adjust the position next time. To say that a Minister is able to tell redistribution commissioners what to do is an extremely serious and grave charge. It is an allegation that I would have to take as a politician. But it is certainly a grave reflection upon the integrity of every redistribution commissioner to say that that could occur. 
No one would know better than the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and others who have occupied my portfolio that no influence whatsoever can be exerted. No commissioner would take any notice of advice or instructions from a Minister in regard to electoral boundaries. I certainly would be able to give the redistribution commissioners much better advice than they receive on these matters but I am certain they would not take it. Surely the honourable member did not mean to say that if he were the Minister the boundaries would be as they are now. The very way in which boundaries are drawn indicates the impartiality of the commissioners. The honourable member's statement about my having morning tea with them and travelling throughout the States to talk to them is one of those fantasies that I think has come from the honourable member's own mind because he is terrified by the Country Party's desire to get its own ideas on electoral boundaries through. I think he has pressed the panic button. He is afraid and frightened of what might happen. I think that his own seat in Victoria has been improved and I think that he will want it to be that way to survive. 
The charges that have been made today against the Commissioners and their integrity are charges that I think it is somewhat degrading for members of Parliament to make because the Commissioners cannot reply. It is of no use the honourable member for Bennelong shaking his head. Every time that he says that boundaries are rigged or gerrymandered he is not attacking me; he is attacking the people who drew the boundaries. If he thinks that the Distribution Commissioners are doing that, he should go outside and say they are men who have no integrity and honesty. I say that not one challenge has been made against the Commissioners who have been appointed. Up to this stage of the debate not one of them has been attacked personally for his integrity. No objection was made when their appointments were announced. I do know that in relation to Western Australia at least one if not two of the Commissioners we appointed were people who had been appointed by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and who were still under attack when the boundaries were announced there. No charge has been levelled against those men. I repeat that honourable members opposite are not attacking me when they talk about gerrymanders and that kind of thing; they are questioning the integrity of the Distribution Commissioners and it is well to bear that in mind. 
An honourable member opposite said that the Australian Labor Party wants a one-party system of government. We would not go to the Distribution Commissioners to find out about that; we would go to Bjelke-Petersen and find out how he draws the boundaries in his State. He has a guided democracy- vote how you like but Bjelke-Petersen cannot lose. That is the situation in Queensland. 
-He has a totally different system of redistributing boundaries. Under our legislation, as the honourable member for Maranoa knows, one of the distribution commissioners must be from memory the electoral officer in the State in which the redistribution is to take place or a person with similar qualifications, one must be the Surveyor-General if his services are available and there also must be one other person. The Queensland Government appoints whom it likes, where it likes and how it likes. It picks the names of the commissioners out of a hat. That is totally different from the federal electoral system, which provides by statute for the appointment of certain people and that cannot be changed. In that way we have a safeguard that some of the States do not have. Therefore to attack the integrity of the people concerned does little service to the Parliament. 
Not one good reason has been given during the debate on the 2 redistributions that have been dealt with today as to why the 2 redistributions should be opposed. Not one good reason has been given to substantiate the claim that unjust boundaries have been drawn. Not one vestige of support has been given to the claims that they have been drawn up in favour of a particular Party. I repeat that the Leader of the Liberal-Country League in South Australia has said that the Liberals will win a majority of the seats in South Australia. The position in relation to Tasmania has been unchanged and there has been very little criticism of the proposals. All the talk about gerrymanders and the rigging of boundaries is just a false approach. I repeat that only the Country Party could force the Liberal Party to capitulate on these matters. The Labor Government stands for electoral justice and electoral reform. We will continue along that course. Ere this day or tomorrow is out this chamber will have an electoral Bill sent back to it from the Senate in relation to which honourable members opposite will be asked to put up or shut up or risk the calling of another double dissolution. The amendments to the electoral legislation that the Opposition would not pass relating to a draw for positions on ballot papers are all part of the pattern of the Opposition not to pass any electoral reform measures. Those proposals are before the Parliament at present and they will be debated. Honourable members opposite can take their chance on them. We will see what will be the position in that respect. In regard to the proposals dealing with Tasmanian boundaries, I say again that there is no substance to the Opposition's case. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Daly's)  be agreed to. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives approves of the redistribution of the State of Queensland into Electoral Dvisions as proposed by Messrs I. F. Weise, A. B. Yeates and C. A. Hughes, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the House of Representatives on 17 April 1975, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted except that the name of Kennedy be substituted for Flynn and the name of Forde be substituted for Glasgow. 
The Government, having considered the report of the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Queensland, as tabled in this House on 17 April 1975, pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Commissioners, now recommends approval of the Distribution Commissioners' proposals for that State. 
The Liberal Party and the National Country Party of Australia have decided to oppose the redistributions. The National Country Party, of course, made the decision as soon as the Commissioners were appointed without having any idea of the ultimate result. This action was even taken in regard to Tasmania and South Australia where they have no political representation. This attitude is in keeping with the National Country Party's policy of maintaining loaded electorates not in the interest of the people, but entirely for its political survival. It is a cynical and undemocratic approach. It is all the more so when it is considered that no party has a more shameful record of political gerrymandering than the members of the National Country Party. Queensland presents an outstanding example of manipulation of electoral boundaries by a political party. 
The Liberal Party, of course, terrified by the thought of the National Country Party leaving the coalition, in a most docile way follows the leader. If the puppet new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had the same courage as  Sir Charles  Court in Western Australia, he would accept these boundaries as the basis of a really fair and just electoral system and let the National Country Party beg for mercy, as it is doing in Western Australia today. 
I repeat for the benefit of this Parliament the views of Malcolm Mackerras, the electoral analyst closely associated with the Liberal Party. He was or is a member of the Liberal Party. He said: 
In overall political terms the 1975 redistribution is the fairest set of proposed boundaries ever to be presented to any Australian Parliament in my lifetime. The Commissioners have bent over backwards to avoid any suggestion of gerrymander. 
My impression is that they have set out to draw boundaries so patently fair that rejection by the Senate would reflect discredit on the Senate, not on the Commissioners. 
It is strange indeed that the Queensland boundaries should be opposed by the National Country Party and the Liberal Party because they weaken considerably divisions held by Australian Labor Party members. Of the 18 seats based on 1974 figures, the Australian Labor Party would be lucky to hold five. In addition, the seats of Leichhardt, Dawson and Capricornia have been weakened for the Government. In order to place the proposals in context, let me refer briefly to the situation which has developed in Queensland since the 1968 redistribution. The rate of growth has accelerated sharply. In the 13 years between the 1955 and the 1968 redistributions, the quota rose by nearly 23 per cent. Three electorates grew by more than 20 000 and a further two by more than 10 000. In the 6 years between the 1968 and 1975 redistributions the quota rose by nearly 28 per cent. Five electorates grew by more than 20 000 and a further five by more than 10 000. Thus, there has been much more growth in half the time. 
As may be seen by reference to the table presented by the Distribution Commissioners at page 2 of volume 1 of their report, enrolment growth rates have varied drastically from division to division over the past 6 years. For instance, while enrolment in the Division of McPherson increased from 47 371, as at 1968 redistribution, to 93 108 as at December 1974, enrolment in the Division of Maranoa increased by only 1526, from 44 788 to 46 314; in the Division of Brisbane by only 1878, from 58 546 to 60 424; and in the Division of Griffith actually decreased by 70, from 58 868 to 58 798. 
The anomalous situation which has developed under the existing electoral boundaries in Queensland may also be illustrated by reference to the current substantial variations from the quota. Thus, as at 28 March 1975, enrolments in 9 of the 18 existing divisions varied from the quota by more than 10 per cent, including four which varied by over 20 per cent. Enrolments ranged from 94 437 or 45.28 per cent above quota for the Division of McPherson to 46 497 or 28.47 per cent below quota for the Division of Maranoa. The identity of the 18 divisions drawn in 1948 remained unchanged for over a quarter century, a period when new divisions were created in all other States but Tasmania. The extent of growth, and its uneven spread compels change. As a consequence of postponed major revisions, it is now necessary to make substantial alterations. 
The Distribution Commissioners' proposals represent a substantial improvement on the present situation and a response to the previous developments. The proposed enrolments, based on December 1974 enrolments, range from 58 537 or 9.76 per cent below quota, for the new Division of Glasgow to 68 515 or 5.63 per cent above quota for the Division of Brisbane. It is proposed to extend the metropolitan area slightly to the north as far as Caboolture and to the south as far as Beenleigh, which will then correspond with the census definition of the metropolitan area and with the reality of urban growth in recent years. The metropolitan area will now contain 9 quotas and therefore must have 9 divisions. 
This fact of life was recognised by both the Australian Labor Party and the Liberal Party in their submissions; the National Country Party chose to put its head in the sand and refused to say anything to the Commissioners other than that there should not be a redistribution- even though one is overdue and the number of divisions outside the permitted variation is excessive. Even with the 20 per cent variation under which it worked previously, the National Country Party could not have put forward a case which would have preserved the present 10 extra-metropolitan divisions. So it chose to say nothing, and then to complain bitterly when the inevitable happened. Given the low existing enrolment, it was logical to alter drastically the Division of Maranoa. It combines with the western part of Kennedy. Again, in order adequately to adjust boundaries within the Brisbane metropolitan area, and to define the 2 new proposed metropolitan divisions the Commissioners found it necessary to abolish one of the existing metropolitan divisions. The Division of Griffith is proposed to be abolished, being the only metropolitan division with a negative enrolment growth rate during the 1 968- 1 974 period. 
Since 1948 Queensland has had 3 sprawling outback divisions. It still has 3- Leichhardt, Dawson and Flynn. Dawson has a coastal strip north and south of Mackay, just as Kennedy once had a coastal strip around Bowen- to give the Minister for the Navy his port, it was said at the time. The position has not changed anywhere near as much as the National Country Party will assert. We will hear a great deal about the enormous size of the proposed Division of Flynn; what we will not be told by its critics is that almost half the area is accounted for by 2 subdivisions which contain between them fewer than 2000 electors. A careful examination of the character of Kennedy will show that it is basically the old Maranoa plus some modest border extensions and plus the city of Mount Isa in its splendid isolation in the north-west of the State. We will hear about the impossibility of servicing Mount Isa and Dalby in the same electorate, but the last redistribution required the honourable member for Kennedy to service both Mount Isa and Gayndah. The distances are remarkably similar. Kennedy is still much smaller than the Division of Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, which is so ably represented by my Labor colleague  (Mr Collard).  One hears little criticism of the size of it from the Opposition. I suggest to the people in the electorate of Flynn that they should choose a Labor member. 
With regard to the boundaries of the proposed Division of Flynn, I would make two other brief points. Firstly, as pointed out in paragraph 12 on page 3 of the Distribution Commissioners ' report particular consideration was given to the Division of Flynn and to the problem of striking a balance among the various criteria laid down by section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. As a result, following consideration of objections to the preliminary proposals, a substantial modification to boundaries of the proposed Division of Flynn was effected, involving compensatory adjustments to the proposed Division of Dawson. The other source of complaint, evidenced in objections lodged, has been the disappearance of Griffith. Within the metropolitan area with its 9 quotas, there are approximately equal numbers to the north and south of the Brisbane River, and a crossing is inevitable. Four bridges cross the river in the area of the proposed Division of Brisbane. The residents on both sides share the same problems- the squeeze of business and industrial premises against residential areas, displacement by freeway construction, the decline in the quality of urban life, large numbers of pensioners and migrants. Two of the last three State redistributions have crossed the river in this area, one under a Labor Government in 1949 and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  latest effort. Is it to be suggested that he does not know the best interests of the residents of inner Brisbane, particularly now that the National Country Party is going to run candidates for the Brisbane City Council? 
Those proposed divisions for which enrolments have been fixed at below quota are all either non-metropolitan- Capricornia, Fisher, Flynn and Herbert- or incorporate rapidly expanding outer metropolitan componentsFadden, Glasgow, McPherson, Oxley and Petrie. In those cases where the proposed enrolment for a non-metropolitan division has been fixed above the quota- Darling Downs, Dawson, Leichhardt and Wide Bay- either the proposed variation from the quota is extremely small, for example, under 1 per cent for both Dawson and Leichhardt, or else it can be anticipated that population growth rate will be such as to reduce the degree of variation from the quota over the next couple of years. 
It will be argued that it is a mistake to have a distribution now because, after the next census has been taken and after the population counted up between States, in a few years time Queensland might- I repeat might- be entitled to 19 seats instead of eighteen, and the job will have to be done again. That may be true or it may not. But if it does come true, the concentration of population growth in the south-east of the State, and in the area between the Gold Coast, Ipswich and Brisbane in particular, makes it highly likely that a nineteenth seat could be carved out of the adjacent Divisions of McPherson, Oxley and Glasgow with a minimum of fuss anywhere else. Obviously the next set of Commissioners cannot be anticipated in this, but anyone who claims that the next redistribution would have to be major if a nineteenth seat becomes available to Queensland is talking through his hat. We cannot delay an overdue distribution on such flimsy claims of what might happen in years to come. 
It is interesting to note the projected enrolment as at May 1977, based on the assumption that the House of Representatives will run its full term. Those 3 existing divisions in Queensland with the highest enrolments as at 25 April 1975 will be as follows: Bowman will increase from 79 629 to 87 000; McPherson will increase from 94 024 to 104 000; Petrie will increase from 77 459 to 84 000. I note that the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  will follow me in this debate. I know that he is a top grade member, but justice and equity in electoral representation demand that neither he nor any other honourable member should be called upon to represent practically double the quota just to allow the National Country Party to survive with its loaded country electorates. I interpolate at this stage that I notice in this debate that there are 3 Liberal Party members and 2 National Country Party members in the House. During the debate on the redistribution of the Victorian electoral boundaries there will be one Liberal Party member and 2 National Country Party members speaking in the debate. In regard to the redistribution of the electoral boundaries in New South Wales, there was one Liberal Party  speaker  and 5 National Country Party speakers. So we know that the tail is wagging the dog in relation to electoral redistribution. This is because the Liberal members want it and the National Country Party members will not let them have it. 
It is appropriate that the name of 'Kennedy' be substituted for 'Flynn', and 'Forde' for 'Glasgow'. The right honourable Frank Forde is a former Prime Minister of Australia. Like the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden after whom a division has also been named, he served the people of Queensland with great distinction in State and Federal parliaments for a lifetime. To sum up, the proposals by no means favour the Australian Labor Party and, as a matter of a fact, weaken certain divisions held by Government members. The Government considers, however, that the Distribution Commissioners' proposals for Queensland are the result of a commendably painstaking and impartial study of the problems involved in the fixing of electoral boundaries for the most decentralised State in Australia. In the circumstances I have moved that this House approve the report of the Distribution Commissioners for Queensland dated 14 March 1975.  Mr Speaker,  I ask leave of the House to incorporate the latest enrolment figures available for all divisions in Queensland as at 25 April 1975, as provided by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives approves of the redistribution of the State of Victoria into electoral divisions as proposed by Messrs L. J. Abbott, J. E. Mitchell and D. W. Rawson, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the House of Representatives on 13 May 1975, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted except that the name of Menzies be substituted for Doncaster and Templestowe. 
The Government, having considered the report of the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Victoria, as tabled in this House on 13 May 1975 pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Commissioners, now recommends approval of the Distribution Commissioners' proposals for that State. In the course of my remarks supporting the redistribution proposals for South Australia I have already commented on the general background to the redistributions which are to be considered for all States other than Western Australia, indicating why the situation is one which cannot be tolerated by any government committed to the principle of one vote, one value. I do not intend to go over that ground again now. However, in order to place the proposals for Victoria in their proper context I want to refer, briefly to the way in which the situation in respect of electoral inequalities has deteriorated in that State since the boundaries of existing divisions were fixed by the 1968 redistribution. 
As may be seen by reference to the table set out by the Commissioners at paragraph 6 of volume 1 of their report, enrolment growth rates between the 1968 redistribution and December 1974 have varied substantially in respect of the 34 existing Victorian divisions. For instance, the overall enrolment growth rate for outer metropolitan divisions has very greatly exceeded that for non-metropolitan divisions. Thus, the average enrolment for the existing outer metropolitan divisions- Bruce, Burke, Casey, Deakin, Diamond Valley, Flinders, Holt, Lalor and La Trobe- as at the 1968 redistribution was 49 383. By 13 December 1974 the average enrolment for these 9 divisions had increased to 78 121. By contrast, the average enrolment for the 1 1 existing non-metropolitan divisions as at the 1968 redistribution was 48 426. By 13 December 1974 the average enrolment for these 1 1 divisions had increased to 56 738. Thus, whereas at the 1968 redistribution the average enrolment for outer metropolitan divisions exceeded that for nonmetropolitan divisions by 957, this difference had increased to 21 383 as at 13 December 1974. 
Let me further illustrate this important point by referring to some of the more striking examples of enrolment growth in existing divisions over the period between the 1968 redistribution and December 1974. During this period, enrolment in the division of Burke increased from 47 472 to 83 245; and in the division of Diamond Valley, from 50 668 to 86 053. By contrast, several of the inner metropolitan divisions actually experienced a decrease in enrolments over this period. For example, enrolments for the division of Melbourne Ports decreased by 1316. During the period between the 1968 redistribution and December 1974, enrolments in metropolitan divisions, taken overall, increased far more rapidly than enrolments in nonmetropolitan divisions, though there were exceptions to the rule, as in the case of a few inner metropolitan divisions. Thus, by December 1974, there were 1 1 metropolitan divisions for which enrolments exceeded the quota by over 10 per cent, including six for which the variation from the quota was over 20 per cent. By contrast, there were 5 non-metropolitan divisions for which enrolments were more than 10 per cent under quota, including two for which the variation was over 20 per cent. Althogether, therefore, as at 13 December 1974, enrolments in 16 of the 34 existing divisions varied from the quota by more than 10 per cent, including eight which varied by over 20 per cent. Enrolments ranged from 86 053 in Diamond Valley to 49 1 50 in Wimmera. 
Under the Distribution Commissioners' proposals, this grossly inequitable situation would be greatly improved. For example, the enrolments for proposed divisions, as at 13 December 1974 ranged from 59 355, that is, 6.54 per cent below quota for the new division of Doncaster and Templestowe to 66 949 or 5.42 per cent above quota for the proposed division of Melbourne. 
The projected enrolments as at May 1977, the date which has been taken for projection purposes, on the assumption that the present House of Representatives will run its full term, for the 3 existing divisions in Victoria with the highest enrolments as at 25 April 1975 will be as follows: 
Burke-84 325 increased to 92 000 Diamond Valley-87 522 increased to 92 000 La Trobe-82 400 increased to 90 000 
As the Distribution Commissioners point out in paragraph 9, page 9 of their report, the abolition of one of the existing rural divisions was unavoidable, given the trend of population changes and dispersal of electors throughout the State, as was the creation of a new division within the metropolitan area. Given the comparative enrolment growth rates to which I have already referred, it was obvious that this new division should be situated in the outer metropolitan area. It was also logical that the rural division to be abolished should be Wimmera, since this division contains fewer electors than any other existing division. 
As with the redistribution proposals for the other States, the Government is far from being in complete agreement with the Victorian proposals. For example, it strongly disagrees with the proposal to remove the subdivision of Holmesglen from the division of Henty. The Commissioners acknowledged the strong objections received by them in this connection and, in fact, agreed that there is a strong community of interest between Holmesglen and the existing division of Henty. However, the Commissioners apparently felt that the retention of that subdivision in Henty would have resulted in a violation of the 'community of interest' criterion as it related to other electors. In fact the Government's position has been significantly weakened in the division of Henty. On the other hand, based on the 1974 election results, on the proposed boundaries there would be no change in the political representation of Victoria. The Australian Labor Party representation would remain at sixteen and the non-Labor parties eighteen. Certainly the National Country Party  of Australia  would have to continue its Western Australian war with the Liberal Party over the couple of seats involved. 
The Victorian branches of the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party did not make any objective suggestions to the Commissioners in accordance with section 18a (1) (a) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, confining their remarks to a broad objection to any redistribution at all. It is interesting to hear members of the National Country Party say that they are entitled to criticise the Commissioners, but they condemned proposals for a redistribution even before the Commissioner's names were announced. It is interesting to note, however, that when the maps were displayed both parties were roused from their lethargy to offer some comments and objections. Again the National Country Party's comments of 13 November 1974 were confined to its own narrow personal desire for survival without any reasonable arguments for a fair electoral redistribution. 
The Liberal Party went to great pains in its objections of 14 November 1974 to present extensive proposals in opposition to those displayed by the Commissioners. Its motives, however, like those of the National Country Party, were politically motivated entirely by its desire to protect its own interest, even at the cost of its supposed coalition partner, the National Country  party  In this regard I was interested to read in today's 'Age' under the heading 'Liberals opt for electoral folly' the following article: 
In determining their attitude to the proposed redistribution of Federal electoral boundaries, members of the Parliamentary Liberal Party had the option of adopting two approaches. They could have asked themselves: is this redistribution fair and equitable and in accordance with democratic principle? To which the honest answer would have been- Yes! Or they could have pondered: does this redistribution serve our long-term political interests? In which case the wise answer would also have been Yes! The Liberals made a decision which was neither honest nor wise: they decided to oppose the redistribution. In doing so, they opted for a marginal short-term political advantage and for a mockery of electoral justice. The main beneficiary of this aberration will be neither the Liberal Party nor the people of Australia, but the National Country Party. 
It goes on to say: 
The Opposition has the numbers in the Senate to block the redistribution proposals. This may give it a slight advantage in the next election, but at the price of perpetuating an unfairly weighted electoral system and of protecting its often mischievous coalition partner against being cut down to a size more proportionate to its popular support. We shall not even be spared the mendacious cant with which this cynical expediency will be defended. 
I suppose there has been no more avid supporter of the Liberal and National Country Parties over the years than the Melbourne 'Age', and that is its summary of the situation. I put that on the record in order to show that fair-minded people agree that this is a fair-minded electoral redistribution. 
The Distribution Commissioners for Victoria gave full and careful consideration to the 35 submissions lodged by members of the general public following publication of their preliminary proposals. As a result, alterations were made to these preliminary proposals in respect of a number of divisions. The Government believes that the proposals of the Distribution Comissioners for Victoria represent a thorough-going attempt to provide the citizens of that State with electoral boundaries which will go a great distance towards the achievement of electoral justice for all voters and political parties. It is proposed to substitute the name 'Menzies' for 'Doncaster- Templestowe' after the Right Honourable  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, K.T., former Prime Minister of Australia. I have pleasure in moving that this House approve the report of the Distribution Commissioners for 
Victoria, dated 14 April 1975. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the latest enrolment figures for Victoria. 
in reply- I wish to reply to some of the very weak arguments offered against these proposals. Before I do so, let me ask the House to judge the statements of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  on the basis of something that I will reveal now. I thought that today the honourable member sounded more like Richard Nixon than the Nixon he is. He said that I had called on a prospective Distribution Commissioner in Western Australia when the proposed redistribution was under consideration there, had a cup of tea with that person, found out his politics and then would not appoint him. The situation is that I appointed to the Redistribution Commission in Western Australia in 1973 and 1974 a  Mr Robson  who was the nominee of the honourable member for Gippsland when he was the Minister responsible for electoral matters. So, I ask the House to judge the rest of the honourable member's remarks on the basis of that statement. 
The honourable member is, I understand, a dairy farmer. I hope that he is better at milking cows than he is at giving figures. He said that Labor would require only 45 per cent of the votes to remain in Government, whereas the Liberal Party and the National Country Party would need 55 per cent of the votes. He gave no authority or justification in quoting those figures. He made up those figures. He may be able to milk cows, but he cannot count. 
I will give the honourable member the real facts of the matter. I have here details of the first preference votes polled by the major parties at House of Representatives elections from 1949 to 1974. Only once in that period has the National Country Party received more than 10 per cent of the total votes. Yet that Party exercises control over almost 1 7 per cent of the seats in this Parliament. That is the reason why these proposals will not be passed in the other place. The rump on the Opposition side holds power and influence over the Liberal Party out of all proportion to the votes it gains at elections. What was said by the honourable member with respect to Tasmania was completely destroyed by the remarks of the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child).  The honourable member called her 'this fair lady'; yet she is dark haired. Honourable members can see that he was quite inaccurate in his comments in that respect. Members of the Liberal and National Country Parties claim that this redistribution should not have taken place as there is to be a census next year. Why, they even denied the people of Western Australia the additional seat to which that State was entitled, although a census had been held. Was it not heart rending today to hear honourable members opposite speak of their unity? They have their arms around each other. They are eating out of each other's hands, right up to the elbow. It was lovely to hear them say that they are one unified body. Why, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  told me that Liberals from everywhere came to him last night to congratulate him on his speech. They said: 'You spoke just as we would like to speak, only for the blessed National Country Party'. He told me this. He showed up the disunity that exists opposite. That disunity is apparent. 
Fancy members of the National Country Party talking about what will be the result of these proposals for the nation in respect of electoral boundaries. I remind honourable members opposite that the variation of 10 per cent above or below the quota was endorsed by the Australian people at an election and was passed at a Joint Sitting of this Parliament. It is the law of the land and it restores electoral justice. The fact that those who sit in the National Country Party corner have not the intelligence of the brighter ones of us is no reason why there should be fewer electors in their electorates. The Labor Party sends great men to this Parliament from country districts. We have sixteen or twenty of them. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  represents an electorate which is one of the biggest in the world. The fact is that the National Country Party selects such poor candidates that they can look after only half as many electors as any other member. It is just not possible to continue such a situation. 
The former Minister, the honourable member for Gippsland, talked about gerrymanders. Let me say that when he attacks me he attacks the 
Distribution Commissioners. As a former Minister, he knows that the Minister responsible for electoral matters has no power of direction to, no control over and no right to dictate to Distribution Commissioners in any way at all. It is no good for the honourable member to say that I am doing these things. When he says that, he attacks some of the most reputable men in the land. No Distribution Commissioner to date has been challenged by anybody in this Parliament in regard to his integrity or his capacity. I do not mind the honourable member attacking me. I am here to face that. But the honourable member must remember that, when he does that, he is attacking men of great ability and great integrity who cannot reply, as they are the ones who have drawn the proposed boundaries. 
Anyway, why take any notice of the National Country Party? Even before the names of the Distribution Commissioners were announced, that Party said that it would have nothing to do with them. The simple reason for that statement was that the National Country Party knew that it could get its puppet partner in this Parliament to jump as it saw fit. It is no wonder that Charlie Court has given the National Country Party away in Western Australia. I wonder why he put up with it for so long. The fact of the matter is, as honourable members opposite know as well as I do, that the National Country Party would never survive on the basis of a popular vote; it survives on loaded boundaries. Of course we cannot beat National Country Party candidates in some electorates. How can we beat a candidate who has to receive only 22 per cent of the primary votes to win? 
The honourable member for McMillan says that he received 26 per cent of the primary votes. I am sorry that I was wrong. That demonstrates the situation. Opposition members say that these proposals will be rejected in another place. I would like to get a good go at the Senate boundaries, too. I would make a bit of a difference there. We would see some changes from those old gentlemen in that other place if their boundaries were being considered. These proposals are accepted by Malcolm Mackerras a member of the Liberal Party, I understandby the Melbourne 'Age' and by all Australians as representing the fairest electoral boundaries ever introduced in the history of Australian politics. We know what the Australian people want. They want fair and equitable electoral boundaries. 
Unfortunately, as a result of the Liberal Party again capitulating, the Australian people will be denied these boundaries, but only temporarily. Honourable members can take it from me that, as sure as night follows day, ultimately these proposals will be accepted by the Australian people and by this Parliament, at a Joint Sitting if necessary, or because we will have a majority in the Senate in due course. I understand that  Senator Steele  Hall said today: 'You might as well vote for these proposals. Next time two or three Liberals will be wiped out and I will vote for the proposals with the Labor Party in the Senate'. I hope that this motion will be carried. It deserves to be carried. I congratulate all speakers on this side of the House for their application to this great debate. But I condemn honourable members opposite for their lack of knowledge and for the fact that the issue of their own personal survival has motivated them in their approach to these proposals. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Daly's)  be agreed to. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives approves of the redistribution of the State of New South Wales into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs R. F. Mallon, L. N. Fletcher and J. B. Enfield, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the House of Representatives on 13 May 1975, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report and indicated in the map referred to therein, be adopted except that the name of Gilmore be substituted for Eastwood, the name of Evatt be substituted for Toongabbie and the name of Evans be substituted for Concord. 
The Government, having considered the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of New South Wales, as tabled in this House on 13 May 1975, pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners, now recommends approval of the Distribution Commissioner's proposals. Before dealing with some of the major features of the Distribution Commissioners' proposals for New South Wales, I want to refer briefly to the current electoral inequalities which are evident in all four of the most heavily populated States, and which provide ample justification for the proposed redistribution in these States. It is appropriate that I should repeat some comments I made when speaking on the South Australian redistribution in order to keep the record straight. I said: 
Prior to the amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act last year, Distribution Commissioners were permitted to draw divisional boundaries that could result in enrolments for divisions being up to 20 per cent above or below the quota applying to the State. Since the 1968 redistribution, which observed the previous guidelines, the consequent inequalities in enrolments have progressively worsened as a result of trends in population growth within each of the four most heavily populated States. We now have a clearly unjust and indefensible situation in each of these States with some electorates having current enrolments which are approximately double those of other electorates. 
For example, as at 25 April 1975, enrolments for divisions in New South Wales varied from 83 941 in Mitchell to 46 975 in Darling; in Victoria, from 87 522 in Diamond Valley, to 49 200, in Wimmera; in Queensland from 94 024, in McPherson, to 46 456 in Maranoa; in South Australia, from 83 388 in Bonython, to 49 561 in Wakefield. In no less than 52 of the 109 electorates in these States the enrolments vary from the quota by over 10 per cent- a situation which is clearly unjust and which must be righted as soon as possible. 
The Government does not agree with all proposals of the Distribution Commissioners, but it believes the Commissioners to be men of competence and integrity who have performed their difficult duties with complete impartiality. In the Government's view, there is no reason why the Liberal Party should not support a speedy adjustment of the inequitable situation which I have just outlined, since the existing boundaries discriminate against the Party in most States. This point is worth stressing, given the frequent assertions which have been made by Country Party spokesmen to the effect that the percentage of seats won by the Government and Opposition in recent elections has accurately reflected the number of votes polled. Such assertions obscure the degree to which present disparities as between divisional enrolments within each State have assisted the Country Party. 
For example, at the 1972 House of Representatives elections the Country Party polled 9.44 per cent of the votes, yet was able to win 16 per cent of the seats. Again, to express the anomaly in another way, at the 1974 House of Representatives elections the average enrolment of the 66 electorates won by the Australian Labor Party was 63 458, while for the 40 electorates won by the Liberal Party the average enrolment was 64 045. Yet for the 21 electorates won by the Country Party the average enrolment was only 54 708. 
Looking at the National Country Party members, I know why they want a lower vote. 
It is therefore understandable that the Country Party should regard  this  situation as highly satisfactory, but there is no reason for any Government committed to the elimination of electoral inequalities and anomalies to share dissatisfaction with the 'status quo'. 
The National Country Party indicated through its Leader, the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony, the right honourable member for Richmond, even prior to the Commissioners being appointed, that it would not support the proposals, despite the fact that the legislation has been endorsed at 2 elections and by a joint sitting of the Australian Parliament. In line with this attitude the National Country Party did not make any substantial submission to the Commissioners in the initial stages. However, the publication of the maps of the provisional boundaries certainly stimulated the interest of the National Country Party, as evidenced by the protests lodged in regard to Riverina and Gwydir in particular. 
It is interesting to note that in submissions made to the Commissioners the New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party- I mention that to National Country Party members as they are their colleagues in arms, the ones they are in love with- in line with the Australian Labor Party proposed the abolition of a division held by the National Country Party. Do honourable members who sit in the corner agree with that proposal? Since the 1968 redistribution, which observed the previous guidelines, the consequent inequalities in enrolments have progressively worsened as a result of trends in population growth within each of the four most heavily populated States. We now have a clearly unjust and indefensible situation in each of these States, with some electorates having current enrolments which are approximately double those of other electorates. 
I wish to outline some major features of the redistribution proposals for New South Wales in particular, in order to demonstrate that these proposals are fair and reasonable, taken as a whole. The Distribution Commissioners for New South Wales have proposed the abolition of 3 existing divisions- Evans, Lowe and Riverinaand the creation of 3 new divisions- Concord, Eastwood and Toongabbie. Two of the three divisions to be abolished are in the Sydney metropolitan area, while one is a southern rural division. All three of the new divisions created are in the Sydney metropolitan area. 
Well, people live there. They are a bit different from trees and cows. Hence, the net result of these variations is a reduction of one in the number of rural seats. In this respect it is worth noting the Commissioners' comment in paragraph 10 of volume 1 of their report that 'after consideration of the dispersal of the population throughout the State it was obvious that there were insufficient electors in the country to retain therein the existing number of electoral divisions'. What the National Country Party has to decide tonight is whether it wants to represent people or trees in this Parliament. Having had a good look at the National Country Party, I think that they would go better with the trees. It should be stressed that the Commissioners.did not arrive at this conclusion lightly. They travelled to 37 centres, representative of most areas of the State, in order to gain first hand knowledge of local conditions, administrative arrangements and particular requirements of local government bodies. 
The honourable member for Paterson said that they were there for a short time. They were never there in the time of the Liberal-Country Party Government. They were not allowed to travel. In all, the Commissioners proposed alterations to the boundaries of all but three of the existing divisions- Banks, Barton and Blaxland- with some of these alterations being quite minor while others are inevitably more substantial. The Commissioners have proposed a very significant reduction in the overall range of percentage variations from the State quota, which was 62 765 as at December 1974. Thus, taking enrolments as at December 1974, on which the Commissioners' proposals were based, percentage variations from the quota for the existing divisions ranged from 25.72 per cent below quota for Darling Division to 31.83 per cent above quota for Mitchell Division. Furthermore, as at that date four of the other existing divisions- Chifley, Hume, Macarthur and Robertson- varied from the quota by over 20 per cent, while a further 12 divisions varied from the quota by over 10 per cent. 
Under the proposals now before the House the extent of these variations from the quota is substantially reduced, under a law passed by a joint sitting of the national Parliament. Thus, the maximum divisional enrolment proposed is 65 625, or 4.56 per cent above quota, for the Division of Hume, while the minimum proposed divisional enrolment is 60 008, or 4.39 per cent below quota, for the division of Macarthur. Honourable members will notice that the only ones interested in this are the National Country Party members. They have a vital interest in this matter. Apart from the proposed Divisions of Hume and Macarthur, variations from the quota for the remaining 43 proposed divisions range from 4.09 per cent below in the Division of Prospect to 3.83 per cent above in the Division of Newcastle. 
That is reasonable, there are only 3 Liberals here. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 - Mr Speaker, in the few moments at my disposal I wish to say a few words to the motion. Honourable members opposite have decided to move this motion knowing full well that the matter to which it refers will be brought before the House immediately the Government considers it appropriate to do so. Immediately after the decisions are announced and made public is the time to debate these matters in the Parliament. Today the Opposition, on a political stunt, has gone through the process of delaying the business of this Parliament. Today honourable members opposite were prepared to delay the business of the Parliament to debate a matter which they know will be discussed in this Parliament in the very near future. 
Opposition members- When? 
Immediately the Government announces its decision is the time for honourable members opposite to debate these matters. They will be given adequate time to do so. Only last week honourable members aired their views on this matter when speaking to a motion moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  Their views have been fairly well aired in advance. I cannot get over the excitement of honourable members opposite. I thought that they would want to talk about inflation and about all the sins of omission and commission of the Government. 
I was endeavouring to speak to the reason that Standing Orders should not be suspended at this stage. There is important business before this Parliament which must be concluded urgently. The question of wool will be brought before the Parliament at the appropriate time decided upon by the Government in accordance with decisions made by the Government. The  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party of Australia, who gets one bright idea a month, got it today. He thought he would embarrass the Government. He endeavoured to embarrass the Government by moving this motion. Had he desired - 
I can wait. I have the rest of the week. 
I was explaining to the honourable members opposite the reason we are opposed to this motion. We believe it is a timewasting device by honourable members opposite in an endeavour to gain political capital out of a matter that will come before this House later. 
That the Leader of the House be not further heard. 
The noes have it. 

<graphic href="095131197505260_13_5_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505260_13_5_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the Standing Orders be suspended  (Mr Sinclair's motion). 
I move: 
That the amendments be disagreed to. 
This is the third time this Bill, the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill, has been before this House. The Bill was first passed by this House on 25 November 1974 and was unceremoniously rejected by the Senate on 28 November 1974. It seemed that this Bill was to suffer the same fate as so many other Government Bills, the enactment of which has been frustrated by the Liberal-National Country Party dominated Senate. However, we were offered a new ray of hope in our efforts to reform the Australian electoral system. The Opposition parties, clothed in the security of their new Leader, decided to adopt a more constructive approach. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  explained to the Australian public that the Opposition would accept 'nearly two- thirds of the 76 clauses in the Bill'. However, when debate on this Bill resumed in the House of Representatives on 10 April of this year the Opposition presented, at the eleventh hour, a list of 47 amendments which if approved would have the effect of deleting virtually every significant reform which the Government proposed to enact. (Quorum formed) 
Provisions in the Bill to provide for the introduction of optional preferential voting, the registration of political parties, the printing of Party affiliations on ballot papers, the drawing for positions on the House of Representatives ballot paper, reforms to postal voting procedures, the closing of the poll at 6 p.m. to facilitate speed in counting would have been all deleted by the Opposition's proposed amendments. Of course many of the trivial provisions were proudly sponsored. When this Government came to power on 2 December 1972 it immediately set about a long overdue reform of the Australian electoral laws- laws that had helped one government to stay in power for the previous 23 years and which had helped to keep the Australian Labor Party out of power for a total of 55 years of the previous 70-odd years since Federation. It was widely known that this situation had come about as a result of manipulation of electoral boundaries drawn so as to over-represent areas where the present Opposition parties received their support, as a result of skilful exploitation of the preferential voting system, and abuses of postal voting procedures, and as a result of the ineffective representation of Territories in this Parliament. 
It is hardly necessary for me to point out that every attempted reform of the electoral system that this Government has sought to introduce has been frustrated at every turn by the Opposition Parties. They are bent on the continuation of features of the electoral system which are well known to work in their favour. It was even necessary to appeal to the people at a double dissolution to achieve the passage of a Bill to get some semblance of equality in the numerical strength of the electoral divisions. Over the past few weeks, redistribution proposals based on this simple democratic principle have been laid before this House. The Opposition Parties' attitudes to those proposals are quite predictable. These same proposals have been described in the Sydney Morning Herald' of 4 March 1975, by  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras, the Opposition's own adviser on electoral matters, as 'a fair redistribution ' which was destined to be ' torpedoed ' in the interests of the Opposition Parties. In an article in the 'Bulletin' of 26 April 1975 entitled 'Sweet reason kills the electoral bill' that same gentleman described the Opposition's current attitude to the electoral laws amendment Bill as 'phoney ' and described the Opposition amendments as 'a massive emasculation of the Bill'. 
Let us consider in more detail some of the major provisions of the Bill which the Opposition has deleted in the Senate. Firstly, the most significant reform proposed of the Australian electoral system since 1949 is the Government's proposal to introduce optional preferential voting for Federal elections. It is well known that the full preferental voting procedure was introduced in 1918 for Federal elections for the specific purpose of frustrating the electoral successes of the Australian Labor Party. It is a system which allows the Tory parties in Australian politics to subdivide into numerous factions, as they have done so many times in the past, without suffering any penalty for their disunity at the polls. Unfortunately, the complexity of the full preferential voting procedure, particularly when it is combined with proportional representation in Senate elections, is too much for many people to comprehend. The result is an inevitably high level of informal voting in Senate elections. At the last Senate elections on 1 8 May 1 974, the informal vote, Australia-wide, averaged 10.77 per cent. The significance of this figure can be appreciated when it is realised that any candidate receiving just over 9 per cent of the vote in any particular State would have been elected to the Senate. 
Of course we know that various right wing factions in Australian politics did their utmost to frustrate the clear expression of the people's voice at those elections. By encouraging a proliferation of the number of candidates they sought to confuse electors and so increase the number of informal votes. The Opposition Parties know full well the superiority of the optional preferential voting procedure over the present system. They themselves introduced that procedure for Advisory Council elections in the Australian Capital Territory and they themselves selected the optional preferential procedure for the people of Papua New Guinea. Why is it that the optional preferential procedure is suitable for the people of the Australian Capital Territory and Papua New Guinea but it is not suitable for the Australian electorate? 
Let us consider some of the advantages that would flow from the introduction of optional preferential voting in Australian elections. It would allow a significant extension of the choices available to the voters. This would occur because optional preferential voting is perhaps the only electoral procedure in the world which allows electors to express indifference between candidates. It maintains all of the choices open to electors under the full preferential system but expands this range of choice by not forcing electors to vote for candidates about whom they know nothing, or towards whom they are positively hostile. It would simplify the act of voting, and would reduce substantially the informal vote, particularly in Senate elections. In my own Division of Grayndler, an informal vote of 16.1 per cent was recorded at the Senate elections last year and that figures was even higher in some other divisions. The time is overdue for change -a change to a more democratic electoral system which would not disfranchise such a large number of voters. There were more than threequarters of a million informal votes at the May 1974 Senate elections- 798 126 to be precise. Is that democracy? 
The Opposition has claimed that the introduction of optional preferential voting would virtually amount to a reversion to a firstpastthepost system. This is an irresponsible and misleading claim. At the recent election for the ACT Legislative Assembly, for example, only 2.63 per cent of the ballot-papers in the Division of Canberra and 6.19 per cent of the ballot-papers in the Division of Fraser, were excluded from the count as exhausted. At the recent election for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, only 4.50 per cent of the ballot papers were excluded from the count as being exhausted. The Opposition is well aware of these facts, yet it continues to attempt to mislead the Australian people by false claims. The Opposition has also told us that the optional preferential procedure will help the Australian Labor Party stay in power for the next 100 years. The elections for the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory Legislative Assemblies have amply demonstrated that this procedure does not favour the Australian Labor Party. It is a fair system. That is why honourable members opposite oppose it. 
Let us now consider another major provision of the Bill which the Opposition Parties have deleted in the Senate- the registration of political parties for the purposes of identification and the printing of affiliations on ballot papers. This provision was inserted in the Bill essentially for the purpose of clarifying the choices open to electors when they cast their votes. The Opposition's deletion of this provision is the most blatant example of the totally cynical attitude with which the Liberal and Country Parties approach this important legislation. They know that in general it is the underprivileged sections of the community who are more prone to confusion when asked to fill out a complicated ballot paper. They know that such people have always supported the policies of the Australian Labor Party because it believes in an egalitarian society. That is the cynical reason why the Liberal and Country Parties oppose any attempt to simplify and clarify the act of voting. It would seem that the candidates sponsored by the Liberal and Country Parties are ashamed of their political affiliations and do not want them printed on the ballot paper alongside their names. Perhaps they would regard this as a severe handicap! I am quite sure that no candidate sponsored by the great Australian Labor Party would be ashamed to have the name of the Australian Labor Party listed on the ballot paper beside his or her name. 
Further conclusive proof, if it were needed, of the Opposition's cynical attitude towards the present Bill is provided by its opposition to the drawing for positions on ballot papers at House of Representatives elections. This is the method currently used for Senate elections. Logically it should be extended to cover House of Representatives elections as well. However, the Opposition Parties have exploited the present alphabetical principle so as to ensure that their candidates are placed on the ballot papers ahead of the Australian Labor Party's candidates so that they may obtain the benefit of what is often called the 'donkey' vote. At the 1974 election, for example, the Opposition Parties chose their candidates so as to gain maximum benefit from the exploitation of the alphabetical system in those divisions in which the result was likely to be  close. At the 1974 House of Representatives election in 26 out of 37 of those divisions which could be said to be marginal- that is, where the winning margin, after allowing for either actual or notional distribution of preferences, was under 5 per cent- the candidates sponsored by the Opposition Parties were placed higher on the ballot paper than candidates sponsored by the Australian Labor Party. At the 1972 House of Representatives election, candidates sponsored by the Opposition Parties were ranked ahead of the Australian Labor Party's candidates on the ballot paper in 26 out of 32 such divisions. I seek leave of the House to incorporate 2 tables documenting this point. The tables which I wish to have incorporated are: 
Table I- Order of candidates on ballot papers in marginal divisions at 1974 House of Representatives election. 
Table II- Order of candidates on ballot-papers in marginal divisions at 1972 House of Representatives election. 
On behalf of the Committee appointed to draw up reasons for the House disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate, I bring up such reasons. (Thereupon the  Clerk  read the reasons as follows): 
Because the Senate amendments have the effect of removing from the Bill the electoral reforms agreed to by this House, in particular the major reforms contained in the clauses dealing with optional preferential voting for Senate and House of Representatives elections, the printing of party affiliations against the names of candidates on ballot papers for the purpose of clarifying the choice open to electors when they cast their votes, the drawing for positions on ballot papers at House of Representatives elections, and those reforming postal voting procedures. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the Committee 's reasons be adopted. 

 - Mr Speaker, I do not intend to hold up the business of the House as those opposite are trying to do, other then to congratulate you on a ruling in which you insisted that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  not use this place as a platform to make some attacks on the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  but stick to the point that was involved. The Leader of the Opposition dissented from your ruling that he sit down. The honourable member did not know until he was half way through debating his motion what it was that he was moving dissent from. He was backed up by the National Country Party. Of course, anyone who is being backed up by the National Country Party is in trouble to start with. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  said that you,  Mr Speaker,  should have allowed the honourable member's explanation to proceed in a free and open way. Members of the Opposition believe that they should have an open go when making personal explanations. They believe that they should be able to attack all and sundry without action being taken by the Chair.  Mr Speaker,  I think that you have set a very high standard. Indeed, this is the first ruling that has been dissented from. Let me assure you that it will be upheld. There is no doubt whatever about that.  Mr Speaker,  you are extremely fortunate not only in having great wisdom yourself but also in having  very wise men on this side of the Parliament supporting you. Having said so much , I move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="095131197505271_15_1_3_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505271_15_1_4_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505271_15_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505271_15_1_5_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505271_15_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the Speaker's ruling be dissented from. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is identical to the Electoral Bill 1974 which was passed by this House on 13 February 1975 and was then introduced into the Senate on 18 February 1975. The motion for the second reading of the Bill was defeated in that chamber on 25 February 1975. The proposals contained in this Bill were fully debated in this House on 1 3 February 1975 and I do not propose to go over the same ground on this occasion. Rather, I shall confine my remarks to one or two observations which are pertinent to the Bill. 
As every member of this House is aware, the existing provisions relating to electoral expenditure are totally inadequate and impose quite unrealistic limitations upon the expenditure by candidates. On the other hand, there is no existing provision in the Commonwealth Electoral Act which limits electoral expenditure by political parties. The Government therefore considers that a restructuring of the expenditure provisions into sensible, more realistic and workable legislation is long overdue. In simple terms, this Bill, in addition to making adequate provision for the limitation of electoral expenditure, provides for the disclosure of sources of funds made available to parties and candidates. This practice is followed in the United States of America and Canada, and was introduced in those countries by conservative governments, with the support of all major political parties. The Government believes that the proposed legislation does not discriminate in favour of, or against, the legitimate interests of any party. Three months have now elapsed since the Senate refused a second reading to the Electoral Bill 1975, a most important measure which the Government has now reintroduced into the House and intends to pursue. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Eric  Robinson) adjourned. 

That the time allotted in connection with the Purchasing Commission Bill 1975 be as follows: 
For the second reading, until 8.45 p.m. this day; 
For the Committee stage, until 8.55 p.m. this day; 
For the remaining stages, until 9.05 p.m. this day. 
I advise honourable members opposite that 20 minutes is permitted for the debate on this allotment of time motion, with 5 minutes for each speaker. That time comes out of the time that my motion proposes to allot. May I say something about what the Opposition has already indicated? May I say - 
Opposition members- No. 
I like silence when I speak. The Opposition moved an amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time. The amendment read: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'to enable the provisions to be more adequately considered - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the Minister for Services and Property be not further heard. 

 - Mr Speaker, I declare that the Purchasing Commission Bill 1975 is an urgent Bill. (Quorum formed) 
Question put: 
That the Purchasing Commission Bill be declared an urgent Bill. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
See (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) 61 acres 2 roods17 perches (24.93 hectares) of land, known as the Leyland Site, was acquired at a price of $ 19.5m inclusive of improvements. Plant and equipment was not included in the transaction. 
The unimproved capital value and the improved capital value fixed by the Valuer-General are for rating purposes only and had not reflected market values. The unimproved capital value fixed on 1 January 1973 was $7.5m, improved capital value fixed from 1 January 1969 was $10m. The assessment of current market values by the Taxation Valuers was $20.5m. 
The value of the land and improvements thereon was assessed by Valuers of the Australian Taxation Office on the basis of current market value. 
5 ) The Minister for Services and Property. 

That so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent five Wool Tax Bills- 
being presented and read a first time together and one motion being moved without delay and one question being put in regard to, respectively, the second readings, the committee's report stage, and the third readings, of all the Bills together, and 
the consideration of the Bills in one committee of the whole. 
I understand that this is purely a procedural motion. 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  is as intelligent as I am, I suppose. The Bills will be presented and debated in accordance with the motion I have moved. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
WOOL TAX BILLS (Nos 1 to 5) 1975 
Bills presented by  Mr Hayden,  and together read a first time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in South Australia having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by this House on 21 May 1975. As honourable members are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of South Australia was laid before both Houses of the Parliament on 15 April 1975, pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distributions Commissioners in pursuance of sections 18A and 21 of that Act. The motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by this House on 21 May 1975, but was negated by the Senate on the following day. 
The Government has decided to introduce 5 separate Bills to implement the Distribution Commissioners' proposed electoral divisions for South Australia, Tasmania, Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales. This action has been taken because of the uncompromising attitude adopted by the Opposition parties in the Senate towards the redistribution proposals for each of the 5 States concerned. In case the Australian public should have any doubt as to the uncompromising attitude to which I have just referred, let me stress the attitude adopted by the Liberal and National Country Parties. 
The National Country Party's determination to obstruct the redistribution proposals for all 5 States concerned was clearly indicated months before the proposals were published. For example, in an article published in the 'Age' on 30 September 1974, the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony stated: 
When the new boundaries are presented to Parliament, every Country Party member and  Senator will  vote against their implementation. 
In an ill-disguised hint to the Liberal Party, he added: 
We are confident that our Liberal Colleagues share our views, and that the proposed boundaries will be defeated in the Senate. 
It is not therefore surprising that the National Country Party should be now steadfastly opposing all redistribution proposals. 
The Liberal Party, for its part, has also decided to oppose all the redistribution proposals, in order to avoid risking any offence to its coalition partner. The Liberal Party has adopted this approach despite the acclaim accorded to the Distribution Commissioner's proposals by the erstwhile Liberal Party consultant and electoral analyst,  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras, who has stated: 
In overall political terms the 1975 redistribution is the fairest set of proposed boundaries ever to be presented to any Australian Parliament in my lifetime; the Commissioners have bent over backwards to avoid any suggestion of 'gerrymander'. 
The Liberal Party, unfortunately, has not heeded such opinions. It has refused to reconsider its intransigent opposition to the redistribution proposals despite the fact that this attitude has been criticised, not merely by a former Liberal Premier of South Australia,  Senator Steele  Hall, but also by a former Liberal Prime Minister of Australia, the Right Honourable John Gorton, now independent member for Higgins. 
In rejecting all the re-distribution proposals both Opposition parties have been motivated by their objection to the basic redistribution ground rules as set out in section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, which must be observed by the Distribution Commissioners. Accordingly, and given the intransigent attitude to which I have referred, it is quite clear that there would be no point in directing the Distribution Commissioners to propose a fresh distribution in the States concerned, as allowed under section 24(2) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. The Government does not overlook the possibility that the Opposition may even choose to reject this Bill itself in the Senate, but nevertheless we believe that redistributions have become a matter of urgent necessity in order to provide equality of representation for every elector. 
The Government is not prepared to wait until 1977 or 1978 for a redistribution, even supposing that future Distribution Commissioners could produce proposals which would please the National Country Party and the Liberal Party. The Opposition may be quite happy to postpone this overdue redistribution indefinitely, but the Government has no intention of waiting until the inequalities in electoral representation become as outrageous as they did prior to the 1968 redistribution, with a disparity of some 100 000 in enrolments between some divisions. The incorporation of these redistribution proposals in legislative form will enable, if necessary, these proposals to be submitted to the judgment of the electorate, together with other items of electoral legislation already obstructed by the Opposition parties in the Senate. Accordingly, the Government has no hesitation, within the terms of the Constitution, in taking whatever action is needed to ensure that the proposals of the Distribution Commissioners, for each of the 5 States concerned, are given legislative effect at the earliest possible date. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in Tasmania having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by this House on 21 May 1975. As honourable members are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Tasmania was laid before both Houses on 17 April 1975, pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners in accordance with sections 1 8a and 2 1 of that Act. 
A motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by this House on 21 May 1975, but was negated by the Senate on the following day. I have already indicated, in the course of my remarks on the first of the 5 Electoral Re-distribution Bills, the purpose of these Bills and there is no need to reiterate those remarks in dealing with this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in Queensland having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by this House on 22 May 1975. As honourable members are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Queensland was laid before both Houses on 17 April 1975, pursuant to section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners in accordance with sections 1 8A and 2 1 of that Act. 
A motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by this House on 22 May 1975, but was negated by the Senate on 27 May 1975. I have already indicated, in the course of my remarks on the first of the 5 Electoral Re-distribution Bills, the purpose of these Bills, and there is no need to reiterate those remarks in dealing with this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time.  (Quorum formed) This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in Victoria having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by this House on 22 May 1975. As honourable members are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Victoria was laid before this House on 13 May 1975 and before the Senate on the following day, pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners pursuant to sections 1 8A and 2 1 of that Act. 
A motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by this House on 22 May 1975, but was negated by the Senate on 27 May 1975.I have already indicated, in the course of my remarks dealing with the first of these 5 related Electoral Redistribution Bills, the purpose of these Bills, and there is no need to reiterate those remarks in dealing with this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in New South Wales having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by this House on 22 May 1975. As honourable members are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of New South Wales was laid before this House on 13 May 1975 and before the Senate on the following day, pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners pursuant to sections 1 8A and 2 1 of that Act. 
A motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by this House on 22 May 1975, but was negated by the Senate on 27 May 1975.I have already indicated, in the course of my remarks dealing with the first of the 5 related Electoral Redistribution Bills, the purpose of these Bills. This Bill, like the 4 related Electoral Redistribution Bills, has been made necessary by the uncompromising attitude adopted by the Opposition parties in the Senate towards the redistribution proposals for each of the 5 States concerned. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave of the House to make a one minute statement on the sittings of the House. 
The answer to the Right Honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer supplied to Question No. 1580 which appeared in Hansard 6 March 1975, page 1240. 
-I move: 
That, in relation to the proceedings on the following Bills, so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader ofthe House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of all the Bills: 
Electoral Re-distribution (South Australia) Bill 197S 
Electoral Re-distribution (Tasmania) Bill 1975 
Electoral Re-distribution (Queensland) Bill 1 97S 
Electoral Re-distribution (Victoria) Bill 197S 
Electoral Re-distribution (New South Wales) Bill 1975. 
This action is necessary because of the urgent nature of these Bills. It is necessary also in order that the people of Australia may, at the earliest possible opportunity, have equality of voting rights throughout all Australian States, irrespective of where they might live. The enrolments in these electorates- if I might make passing reference to them- are so malapportioned as to make the present basis of election undemocratic. Therefore, it is necessary that the proposals enumerated in these Bills should be given effect to and voted upon by this House. It is true that this legislation in another form came before this Parliament and it was passed by this House. It was rejected in another place. Members of the National Country Party of Australia and others have said that at no stage at all will they support the proposals. They are now exercising a delaying tactic to prevent democratic elections throughout the length and breadth of Australia. Therefore, it is felt that we should give legislative form immediately to the redistribution proposals of the Commissioners in respect of all States. These proposals have been described as the fairest set of boundaries ever presented to any Australian parliament. 
This legislation will give this House the opportunity to vote on the issue again; it will give those in another place the opportunity to vote on it again; and ultimately it may come back here. If it is again frustrated, rejected and obstructed in another place, the people ultimately will pass judgement on whether or not they should have equitable electoral boundaries. There are honourable members opposite, particularly members of the National Country Party, who will say that these Bills are unnecessary. Their views can be discarded because they said, even before the proposals were announced, that they would not support them. They did not know what the proposals were to be- whether they would make every seat a Country Party seat or not- but they said they would not accept them. The reason they will not accept them is that they do not believe the Joint Sitting of the Parliament passed a law and gave effect to them. That is in keeping with those honourable members' political attitude. 
I have no desire to delay this House in explaining these measures because I would like honourable members opposite to have as much time as possible to adjudicate and speak on these Bills that I am presenting to the Parliament. Therefore, I do not propose to speak at length on why the Standing Orders should be suspended. I merely summarise in this way: These Bills give legislative effect to boundaries for each electorate in Australia which bring equity and justice to the voting system. They represent, in legislative form- in Bill form- the proposals that have already been endorsed by this House. They represent also the boundaries as drawn up by various Commissioners in the various States, giving effect to legislation on redistribution as set out in the Commonwealth Electoral Act. In every way the Bills exemplify what we believe to be urgent legislation. We believe that they should be passed through this House in this session. We believe that they should take effect as urgently as possible. For that reason, with a minimum of delay, I move for the suspension of Standing Orders in order that I may give effect to discussions in this Parliament in the most expeditious way on this far-reaching and important legislation which has the endorsement, I have no doubt, of people of all political persuasions, except the National Country Party members of this Parliament. 
I declare that the following Bills are urgent Bills: 
Electoral Re-distribution (South Australia) Bill 1975 
Electoral Re-distribution (Tasmania) Bill 1975 
Electoral Re-distribution ( Queensland ) Bill 1 975 
Electoral Re-distribution (Victoria) Bill 1975 
Electoral Re-distribution (New South Wales) Bill 1975 
-Imove: 
That the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
1 ) Electoral Re-distribution (South Australia) Bill 1 975- 
For the second reading, until 4.30 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 4.40 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 4.50 p.m. this day. 
Electoral Re-distribution (Tasmania) Bill 1975- 
For the second reading, until 5.00 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 5.10 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 5.20 p.m. this day. 
Electoral Re-distribution (Queensland) Bill 1975- 
a) For the second reading, until 5.30 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 5.40 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 5.50 p.m. this day. 
Electoral Re-distribution (Victoria) Bill 1975- 
For the second reading, until 8. 10 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 8.20 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 8.30 p.m. this day. 
Electoral Re-distribution (New South Wales) Bill 1975- 
For the second reading, until 8.40 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 8.50 p.m. this day. 
c) For the remaining stages, until 9.00 p.m. this day. 
It will be seen from what I have outlined that it will be, I think, about 6 hours from now before the debates on these Bills are finished. That does not seem to me to be an unreasonable time limit. Anyone who cares to refer back to the Hansard of Wednesday, 2 1 May, will find that on that day a very extensive debate took place on the South Australian and Tasmanian redistribution proposals. It commenced at 12.15 p.m. and finished at a rather late hour on that day. Therefore, a great deal of debate already has taken place on those 2 measures. Anyone who cares to refer to the Hansard of Thursday, 22 May, will find that on that day an extensive debate also took place on redistribution proposals concerning Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales. It will be seen also that practically every member of this House who wanted to speak on those matters had the opportunity to do so. Many took advantage of it. Except for, I think, 2 honourable members opposite, every honourable member who rose in his place took part in the debate. Consequently, there already has been full and adequate discussion on these measures. 
The Government is not prepared to let the National Country Party tail wag the Government dog, even though it wags the Liberal Party dog. If the Liberal Party capitulates to the National Country Party on issues such as this, we will have to do a Charlie Court and stand up to the National Country Party and show the Liberal Party what ought to be done to the National Country Party. It would not matter if we were to debate these measures until doomsday, because the National Country Party would not adopt a different attitude to them. The National Country Party has said that under no circumstances will it support them and under no circumstances will it have anything to do with them. Of course, the little poodle dogs in the Liberal Party have bowwowed along with the National Country Party and followed the same course of action. We heard a lot of ballyhoo today from the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  about the proposed electoral boundaries being monstrous. He is a member of a Party that would not even put a decent submission to the Distribution Commissioners. It would not even make suggestions to them. It woke up when the boundaries were announced. Its members then ran all over New South Wales chasing up petitions. I will bet that the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  never saw so many electors in his life as he saw when he was rushing around trying to save the seat that he would not put in a submission to save in the first place. Everybody who saw him said: 'Thank God the seat is to be abolished '. 
Honourable members opposite now are trying to hold up in this Parliament the implementation of the redistribution proposals. The Government will give the colleagues of honourable members opposite who sit in another place, in which frustration de luxe occurs, the chance to stand up and be counted as voting against this legislation. The Opposition in the other place can reject these Bills twice if it likes. They will merely join the long list of things that will bring down honourable members opposite, because at a Joint Sitting of this Parliament these Bills will become the electoral laws of the land. As soon as the principle of one vote one value is implemented, honourable members opposite will disappear. The National Country Party lives on loaded electorates, and no electorate is more loaded in favour of the National Country Party than the electorate of New England, which is represented by the Deputy Leader of the National Country Party. I will now give way to him and let him rant and roar about electoral justice, of which the National Country Party knows nothing. Come what may, ere the night is out these Bills will become the law as far as this House is concerned and the people will know that we as a Government stand for electoral justice and equity, irrespective of what those who sit opposite might say. 
One would think from statements made by members of the Opposition that this is the first time that redistribution proposals have not been referred back to the Commissioners. Of course, that is not correct. 
I am talking on the whole Bill. In 1962 redistribution proposals were brought into this Parliament. At the dictates of the then Country Party they were not proceeded with. Those proposals were never referred back to the Commissioners. On that occasion, as now, the Country Party told the Liberal Party what to do. The proposals were never referred back to the Commissioners. They were not proceeded with in this Parliament. Any precedents in that regard have been set by the Liberal Party. 
I ask honourable members opposite: 'What is the good of referring these proposals back to the Commissioners when the National Country Party has said that no matter what Commissioners are appointed in any State, anywhere, any time, while this legislation exists it will not accept the referee 's decision? What is the good of referring these proposals back? Even the Commissioners would agree that honourable members opposite would be wasting their time, because there is one Party in this Parliament which is implacably opposed to the legislation passed by the Joint Sitting. That Party has said that under no circumstances will it agree to any proposals no matter how often they might be considered by the Commissioners. All that the Opposition seeks to do is to stop this legislation being given effect to. I ask members of the National Country Party: Is it not a fact that not one of you will accept these proposals no matter how many times they come back to this Parliament from the Distribution Commissioners? Do not members of the National Country Party admit that they are only trying to evade having fair and just electoral boundaries in this country. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Electoral Redistribution (Tasmania) Bill, the Electoral Redistribution (Queensland) Bill, the Electoral Redistribution (Victoria) Bill and the Electoral Redistribution (New South Wales) Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 5 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I wish first of all to extend my congratulations to the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Aderman)  who made a speech on the adoption of the Tasmanian electoral boundaries and did not once mention that State. May I also congratulate him on voting against proposals for Tasmania, in which State his Party not only has no representatives but also has no organisation. That shows the bitter approach of the National Country Party to these proposals. Later on I will deal with some of his submissions. Before I do so I want to put the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  right. He has become the Charlie McCarthy of the Liberal Party for the National Country Party's opposition to these proposals. The honourable member for Bennelong claimed that the article in the Bulletin' in April 1975 by  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras appeared before the New South Wales proposals were published. The fact is that the New South Wales preliminary proposals were first published in early March 1 975. 
I would like to reply to some of the statements made by the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  who had a lot to say about the Queensland redistribution. It is amazing that the National Country Party did not wake up until it saw the boundaries. There has been much complaint about the size of the proposed electorate of Flynn. I do not remember honourable members opposite crying their eyes out about the electorate of Kalgoorlie, which is bigger than Queensland. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the Minister for Services and Property be not further heard. 
Before I give my opposite number, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  a few minutes to speak, I hope in a sane, sound and quiet manner to sum up the arguments that have been advanced by honourable members opposite. It has been stated by the Opposition that these redistribution proposals should have been referred back to the Distribution Commissioners for further consideration. There are obvious reasons why that has not been done. Firstly, it is not always done. The Liberal Party did not do it in 1962. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  gave an excellent argument why it should not be done on this occasion when he said that under no circumstances did the Opposition have any intention of ever accepting the boundaries drawn up at this particular time. 
National Country Party members also stated that, no matter which Commissioners drew up the boundaries, under the present provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act they would not adopt them in any State of Australia in any circumstances. The Liberal Party followed that line. Accordingly, it would have been a waste of time to refer the matter back to the Commissioners. It was also said that a census was to be held and that there must be a redistribution after every census. That, of course, is completely false. It is not necessary. In 1971 the Liberal Party did not take steps to bring about a redistribution after the census on that occasion. Because of its failure to do so it denied Western Australia a seat. I mention that to show the falsity of the argument that the proposals should be referred back. By putting them into legislative form we can have a vote of this Parliament and the people can ultimately judge whether they should be passed. 
We heard great criticism, particularly from the National Country Party, in regard to the area of country electorates. Honourable members quoted cases to show that it is much more difficult to represent country electorates than densely populated city electorates. We could debate at great length whether a member representing 130 000 people in an area of five or six square miles has not more to do than a country member who represents a much smaller number spread over a very big area. The answer to that is not loaded electorates, not giving a country man a vote worth 1  Vi  to 2 times the value of the vote of a city dweller. The answer is to see that electorates are equal and that the proper facilities are available to the members to represent them. We on this side of the House know all about country seats. We hold the largest electorate in Australia and one of the largest in the world- Kalgoorlie. It has the largest population and the largest number of voters. 
I understand that the number of towns in it does not matter because the National Country Party says that it wants added voting strength because it represents areas- areas, not people. In addition, the National Country Party never worried about the size of the Kalgoorlie electorate. They talk about the electorate of Flynn and others like it. Those areas can be represented effectively by members who have the proper faculties and also the inclination to do so. Let me remind honourable members opposite that the Labor Party holds almost 20 country seats throughout Australia and represents them very effectively. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  spoke about his electorate and said that it had been gerrymandered. Why, the Country Party plundered that seat from the Liberal Party by putting candidates in rural areas, and subsequently one of them defeated Allen Fairhall 's successor. Everybody knows that the Country Party plundered it from the Liberal Party and that is why for a few brief moments or a few brief months or years we are sharing the pleasure of the delightful company of the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe). 
As I wandered with the honourable member through Currabubula I was sorry that he would not be there with me again. 
I have not actually seen that report, but I do know that campaign funds are collected from many sources. It is a well known fact that the National Country Party is financed practically completely by the oil companies of Australia. 
And the insurance companies of course. There is one oil company which I might say has written to me; that is Esso Australia Ltd which wrote to me on 22 May 1975. The letter says: 
I notice in the Hansard record for May 14, 1973, that you are reported as staring that 'One is well aware that the Country Party is in the grip of the oil companies and that its campaign machinery is extremely well oiled'. 
We would like you to know that Esso Australia Ltd, strictly observe a policy which precludes contributions to political parties or organisations, and that whilst we obviously do not seek to speak for any other company, Esso is in no way involved with the Country Party. We feel it desirable that this policy should be brought to your attention. 
I would assume that, probably, the Liberal Party is supported. Nevertheless this company has exempted itself. 
Another interesting document dealing with funds has come to my attention. I have here a letter circulated by the Chief Opposition Whip to all Liberal members of the House of Representatives. I received it because I am so broadminded, I suppose. The letter says: 
The Federal Secretariat has advised me that Liberal Party supporters in London have formed a group in order to help the Liberal Party at election time and in any other way possible. 
They would be delighted to have you call on them - and so it goes on. The words 'in any other way possible' are very sinister. No doubt they mean that this group has been formed to raise campaign funds from multi-nationals and oil companies in Great Britain. I have the document here. It is headed 'Liberal Party London Group', and commences: 
John Atwill, NSW President, at Barclay Hotel, London from today would welcome your contact.. 
It is dated 17 April. Is it not sinister to think that the Liberal Party is raising funds abroad, as the honourable member for Phillip said? If Liberal Party supporters are not raising funds, what is the purpose of the meeting? Is it a meeting place where they can talk of the good old days when they were in Government, or is it for raising funds? Are they going to form an Opposition in exile with their multiplicity of ex-leaders, exPrime Ministers and ex-members of the former Government? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) 9 cents per kilometre. 
10 cents per kilometre. 
12.9 cents per kilometre. 
The rates of this allowance are the same as those applied to members of the Australian Public Service and these rates were varied as a result of PSB Circular No. 1974-48 of 9 December 1974, with effect from 26 November 1974. 
I move: 
That the House insist on disagreeing to the amendments insisted on by the Senate. 
I do not intend to take a lot of time over this. I merely put on record again the reasons why we insist on disagreeing to these amendments. I quote from page 2789 of Hansard of 26 May where, on behalf of the Committee appointed to draw up reasons for the House disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate, I announced the reasons. They were: 
Because the Senate amendments have the effect of removing from the Bill the electoral reforms agreed to by this House, in particular the major reforms contained in the clauses dealing with optional preferential voting for Senate and House of Representatives elections, the printing of party affiliations against the names of candidates on ballot papers for the purpose of clarifying the choice open to electors when they cast their votes, the drawing for positions on ballot papers at House of Representatives elections, and those reforming postal voting procedures. 
When the reasons were sent back to the Senate  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, left no doubt that there was no sense in persisting with these amendments in that chamber. I quote the final sentence of his statement recorded on page 2057 of the Senate Hansard. He stated: 
I put to the Committee that the Senate's view then was quite clear and I ask the Senate to stay with the decisions we made previously on this matter. 
The Senate then divided and reinserted these amendments which are sent back at this stage. This is again a classic case of blatant obstruction in the Senate of legislation for which the Government has a mandate won at 2 elections and which was passed by a Joint Sitting of this Parliament. Undoubtedly this is a case where we will ultimately have to ask the people of Australia to pass judgment on the obstruction of the Senate. This legislation has been debated in this Parliament for quite a long time. All the arguments of those opposite will not take away from the fact that this is nothing more nor less than obstruction, an endeavour to emasculate the Bill and to destroy all its main features. Despite what was said by the new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the Senate did not review the legislation; it just restored a few minor changes which the Liberals made some years ago and which they passed in this place under the guise of reviewing the Bill.'I do not intend to hold up the business of the House. I repeat that it is blatant obstruction and that the Government will not tolerate it. The Government disagrees with the proposal. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be laid aside. 
I mentioned a moment ago the reason why I take this course. I will not hold up the House any further. Again there is blatant obstructionism on the part of the Senate. There is no purpose in pursuing this matter a further time in the Senate. Accordingly, the Bill will be laid aside and it will join that long list of Bills upon which the people ultimately will pass judgment. 
In his usual contemptible manner, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  did not tell me that he was raising this matter tonight. No doubt he has already given it to the Press. In an extravagant, unsubstantiated and malicious way he has made allegations which, coming from anyone else, would be taken seriously. Tonight, with that initiative for which I am renowned, I happen to have with me the documents on this matter. After I finish blasting the honourable member out of the chamber with the facts of the case I hope he will tender his apologies to me and to all concerned and give up acting like a guttersnipe in this Parliament and act more reputably as he should I shall now give him the facts and put the record straight. On 10 October 1974 the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, the honourable Kep 
Enderby, and the Managing Director of the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia,  Mr David  Abell, jointly announced that the Australian Government and the company had agreed upon certain arrangements to enable restructuring of the company's activities in Australia. A Press statement dated 10 October was released. I seek leave of the House to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
I thank the House. The announcement said that the Government would assist Leyland in its restructuring by: Purchase of the company's 63 acres site at Waterloo at an agreed valuation; purchase of approximately 800 Leyland vehicles; early payment for vehicles already delivered and progress payments against current contracts for truck, bus and Landrover orders. Following this decision the normal processes were applied of assessing the relative interests in departments for acquirement of a property of this nature in Sydney. For the purpose of negotiating with the company for the purchase of the property the Australian Government valuers were requested to provide a valuation of the property on the normal basis of a willing but not anxious buyer and a willing but not anxious seller. Negotiations for the purchase of the property were conducted by officers of the Department of Services and Property in keeping with the normal responsibilities and procedures of that Department. The gentleman who handled this personally is a man of outstanding integrity and capacity. 
The Australian Government valuation of the property was: Land, $ 12,850,000; improvements, $7,650,000-a total of $20,500,000. The Department of Housing and Construction inspected the property on 23 October 1974 and reported that all improvements were of a good standard and were generally in excellent condition. Following negotiations by the Department of Services and Property the property was purchased for $ 19.5m- $lm under the valuation. The purchase was of the land and improvements and did not include plant and equipment. The honourable member for Mackellar has been to some secondrate State department and received a leak that we had paid $19.5m for the Leyland site and that this price did not include the buildings, which could be removed by Leyland as required. Of course that leak is patently absurd, as is the suggestion. The purchase was of the land and improvements but did not include plant and equipment. 
Following assessment of relative departmental needs the property was acquired for defence purposes. Defence authorities have judged that the property is ideal for their purposes and would result in a net financial advantage to the Government of $22.5m. This figure includes the purchase of plant and equipment at excellent prices. I shall show the honourable member how we are saving that money. The cost of acquisition of the Zetland land is $ 19.5m; alterations and additions would cost $1 lm. The equipment would be $lm-a total cost at Zetland of $31.5m. The estimated cost at current prices of alternative provision of a new warehouse complex at Randwick to be constructed progressively over a period of years was $40m. The value of the real estate which would be offered back to the community as a result of this purchase was $14m. The total offsets were $54m and the net financial advantages from the occupation of the Zetland site by the Department of Defence at current prices is $22.5m. This in itself shows the profit that the Government has made on this transaction. The acquisition and use of the property for defence purposes will enable substantial areas of land currently occupied by the Department of Defence at Randwick, Marrickville and Wooloomooloo to be made available for more suitable land use for the benefit of the community generally. 
That is a factual statement of the position. The valuation was made in accordance with the usual procedures laid down by government departments, by previous governments and by this Government. As I said, these negotiations were conducted by a man of the utmost integrity,  Mr Paul  Smith, the Chief Property Officer in New South Wales of the Department of Services and Property. The slanderous, unprincipled and unsubstantiated charges made by the honourable member for Mackellar are in keeping with the infamous record of smear and blackmail that he has brought to this Parliament. He will hide under the shelter of Parliament but outside is not game to say anything. He makes attacks in this 
House on a young lady but then runs for cover, as he did in relation to a court case involving one of the members of this Parliament. Nothing is too contemptible for him to raise. Of course, anybody but the honourable member for Mackellar would be taken a bit of notice of. No wonder the Opposition wants to get rid of him. He is getting older and sillier every day of the week. The honourable member should contact the source of his leaks in New South Wales and let those people know that the facts are not right. Before he makes charges against reputable public servants, against the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and others he should make sure he knows the facts. The real facts of the matter are that we are saving $22.5m. Land that is currently occupied by the Army will be given back for public purposes in the future. In every way this transaction in one that brings great credit on the Government. Far from wasting $ 10m of the taxpayers' money we have saved the taxpayers more than $22.5m, which is in keeping with this Government's practice of doing the best possible for all concerned and saving in every way possible the taxpayers' money. I hope the honourable member, having heard that reply, and knowing the facts as they are, will apologise. I hope that if he intends to raise such matters again in the way he did tonight after I had answered his questions on this matter the other day, at least he will have the courage to tell me that he is going to bring it up and will not sneak in here like a burglar and try to steal a march on me knowing full well that he was going to put over a false story and get it in the Press and not give the Minister responsible the opportunity to answer it. The honourable member should now get up and apologise and not - 
Burglar? I will go further; he is a bushranger. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement on the same matter. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that the Government broke pairs at short notice. He should know as should the shadow Leader of the House on the Opposition side who is a lawyer, that a proposal to alter the Constitution requires the support of an absolute majority of the members of this House. I point out that the notice paper for Monday, 2 June 1975 showed the first item of business to be the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1975 (No. 2). That notice paper was issued to all members of this House on the Friday preceding the Monday and therefore the Opposition knew full well on the Friday that there would be a constitution alteration Bill coming up for discussion on the Monday. I realised that we would require a majority and we recalled our members from overseas. Had the Opposition been as alert as we were we would have brought their members back too had they requested us to do so, but the fact is that, the Opposition went to sleep on this matter. The statement by the Leader of the Opposition that the Opposition did not know about this until Monday is completely wrong by reason of the fact that its members knew on the Friday, and it is there on the notice paper for that day for all to see. The honourable gentleman could have recalled members of the Opposition from overseas had he so desired. He knew on the Friday that this Bill would come up for discussion on the Monday, and that is when I woke up to the fact that we had to have our members present. 
Surely the eminent Leader of the Opposition does not think that on a constitution alteration matter members from either side, who are required by the Constitution to be here, should stay away from the Parliament. This is one of those exceptional matters on which all members are required to be here. To say that the Government would break pairs to suspend the Standing Orders is, of course, drawing a very long bow because that would not happen, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has stated. Honourable members will have noticed in this session that when we required the suspension of the Standing Orders we have given notice of it if we did not have an absolute majority available. The Leader of the Opposition has said that he knew this would be necessary only at 9.55 on the day in question. Certainly the letter was sent on that day, but if the liaison between the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the Leader of the Opposition was similar to that which exists between the Prime Minister and myself in respect of the management of this House none of these things would arise. Consequently, for the Leader of the Opposition to say that an arrangement for pairs could be broken at any time is a matter that, of course, will not bear investigation. I suggest to the Leader of the Opposition that he knew precisely what would happen. The notice paper indicated it and it would have been apparent to every member of this Parliament. 
Anybody who read the newspapers on the Saturday or the Sunday would know that members would have to be here. They would know also that members were being brought home and that similar arrangements would have been made for honourable members opposite. I have been in a similar position. I was brought back from London on a previous occasion to vote. The Leader of the Opposition has asked that pairs be not withdrawn under any conditions. The letter from the Opposition has just been received, but I will be surprised if that request will be met because it is an impossible situation when matters concerning the Constitution are involved. I do not think any responsible Leader of the Opposition could expect members to stay in London or somewhere else when a constitution alteration Bill is coming up for discussion particularly when 3 days' notice is given to all honourable members. 
We on this side of the House agree that this is an important matter. We were prepared to debate it this morning. But evidently the person who put it on the notice paper thought more of behaving in a disgraceful and disorderly manner in this Parliament - 
All I say is that the honourable member who put it on the notice paper was suspended for misconduct in this House this morning. If he is not prepared to behave himself and to be here to move the motion, the Government considers that the motion should be treated accordingly. I listened to the 2 amateurs who rose to speak in this debate with no knowledge of the subject, who gave support to the conduct of the honourable member concerned and who now want all the business of this House to be suspended although the honourable member concerned did not even think it was worthwhile staying in the Parliament to move the motion. 
It is true that this matter will not be debated for a couple of months if it is not debated today. But that is not our fault; that is the fault of the honourable member who put it on the notice paper but could not behave himself. I suggest that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  does not give a hang about those who are unemployed; he is just attempting to make political capital out of the matter. Honourable members opposite know full well that they cannot suspend Standing Orders. They do not have the numbers to do so. So, the very moving of the motion to suspend Standing Orders is a phoney proposition. The Opposition knows that. 
It knows also that the honourable member for Mackellar did nothing at all in regard to these matters when he was the Minister for Social Services. But he has become a great reformer in Opposition. If the honourable member for Mackellar could not ensure that he remained in the Parliament on the day the motion was to be debated, the full responsibility for this motion not being moved today is on that honourable member, who was discharged from this Parliament on your naming,  Mr Speaker,  earlier today. The fundamental reason why the matter will not be discussed is that the member of the Opposition who put it on the notice paper behaved like a larrikin in the Parliament and accordingly was suspended. 
I refer to the honourable member for Mackellar, who could not behave himself. We on this side of the House cannot be expected to postpone everything just to suit the convenience of a member who wants to come and go in the Parliament, good or bad as it might be, as it pleases him. However, I do not intend to allow the time of this House to be wasted any further. I just indicate to honourable members opposite that if motions such as this are put on the notice paper the members of the Opposition who place them there ought to be here to move them. I am not at all impressed by the 2 amateurs who spoke in support of the suspension of Standing Orders. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  knew nothing at all about the motion and tried to speak off the cuff. I will give him the good oil: He was a pretty poor performer. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  who spoke a few moments ago, tried to make his speech on the substance of the motion .on the notice paper and to go around the rulings of the Chair, which your astuteness stopped,  Mr Speaker.  This is a phoney proposition, and we have had enough of it. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
-I move: 
That  Mr Enderby, Mr Mathews  and the mover be appointed a Committee to draw up reasons for the House of Representatives disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate. 
On behalf of the Committee appointed to draw up reasons for the House disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate, I bring up such reasons. (Thereupon the  Clerk  read the reasons as follows): 
Because the superannuation arrangements for Australian Government employees that would result from the amendments proposed would be detrimental to many existing contributors to the present superannuation pension scheme; would compare unfavourably with the superannuation schemes maintained by many of the State governments for their employees; and would result in complex and difficult administrative arrangements. 
-I move: 
That the Committee 's reasons be adopted. 

 - Mr Speaker, in accordance with the provisions of standing order 108, 1 withdraw the motion moved by the Prime Minister. 

 - Mr Speaker - 
I have studied the results of the South Australian elections. They were very satisfactory from every point of view. They even resulted in a change of leadership in the Liberal Party. The results of the elections, particularly for the Upper House, indicated that optional preferential voting is a very effective method of giving democracy in a real way to all people in the country. I noticed that in South Australia 6 Australian Labor Party members were elected to the Upper House, with 3 Liberal Party members and 2 Liberal Movement members. Under the optional preferential system one had only to vote on a group basis for one candidate. As a matter of fact, on one occasion in this Parliament that method was suggested to this House by that outstanding radical, the honourable member for Sturt. It is a method which commends itself to a lot of people throughout the country. 
Until 1973 in South Australia the Liberal Party had 16 members in the Upper House and the Australia Labor Party 4 members. In other words, voting for the Legislative Council was under restrictive franchise and most undemocratic. Thanks to the optional preferential system real democracy prevails in South Australia as far as the election of members to the Upper House is concerned. It has now 10 members of the Australia Labor Party, 9 members of the Liberal Party and 2 members of the Liberal Movement. I believe the optional preferential system of voting is one of the most democratic advances which this country can endorse. It was opposed by the Opposition in another place, and here also, when we sought to introduce it for Senate elections, but in South Australia there has been no complaint by any section of the community or any political party about the result or the methods employed. 
Might I just give a bit of advice, which I rarely give to those opposite? They should follow the example of South Australians, introduce an optional preferential system in accordance with what has been presented to the Australian Parliament by the present Government, and in that way we would get the democratic results that have come on this occasion to the South Australian Upper House. 
At the  outset  I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  on one of the few really good speeches I have heard him make in the Parliament. I support the view put forward by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  that we should reject the Senate's amendment. The honourable member for Griffith and the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)-  and all honourable members for that matter-must realise that no one would imagine that a parliament could be properly conducted with the sort of accommodation and facilities that are available here for members and others. It is true that we suffer greatly in comparison particularly with Canada and the United States of America. The British House of Commons does not offer much in the way of facilities for private members. As the honourable member for Griffith said, for a long time- almost since the time I entered the Parliament- there has been a demand for a new parliament house. The facilities are not available for Ministers and private members adequately to provide for the staff that is necessary. The real purpose behind the resolution, which was moved and carried by the Parliament, was to get the proceedings under way and to commence the erection of a new parliament house. I thought that we had gone a long way when this matter was decided by a vote on nonparty lines; undoubtedly this delaying tactic will upset our hopes and aspirations. 
The amendment refers to matters relating to facilities in this House at the present time. The fact is that at the present time a committee is investigating what can be done. But not much can be done in this building unless it is extended another storey or sideways or unless the walls are turned into concertina walls. All the inquiries in the world would reveal that it is necessary to erect another building, either by adding to this one or by building a new parliament house. Why the Senate should consider just investigating the possibility of improving the facilities here is quite beyond me. I suggest that that is completely out of order with what was meant by the original motion. Where will we get if we just keep on inquiring about what we can do in this Parliament House? Why not be more constructive and say: 'When can we commence to lay the foundation stone of a parliament house that will do justice not only to the people of this country but also to those who are honoured to represent them here?' Those people who have seen the Canadian building appreciate what has been done there. It is a magnificent Parliament House with good facilities for members. The same thing applies in the United States Congress. 
We have been asked to go into certain matters in the resolution. The honourable member for Murray mentioned the neglect of accommodation for honourable members. He criticised governments in which his own Party participated but he was also somewhat critical of the present Government and said that it also had gone to sleep in regard to facilities for honourable members. I do not want to push the matter any further but all honourable members know that in the last few yea.rs, right throughout the length and breadth of the country, the facilities for honourable members in their offices in their electorates and in other places have been substantially increased, and the secretarial legislative research assistance mentioned has been provided by the Labor Government. For 23-odd years Liberal governments did not bother to do anything about that. The criticism by the honourable member for Murray does him no credit. It is easy to see that he did not suffer as other honourable members did from the complete lack of facilities not only in this Parliament but also in the electorates. 
This Government has not gone to sleep on the matter. It has put forward this motion regarding a new parliament house in order to improve and continue the progress it has made in providing adequate facilities for members in this Parliament. Consequently these delaying tactics do little credit to the Senate and will not help those who seek to improve conditions for honourable members here. Every Minister and every private member wants additional accommodation. Those who work within the Parliament, such as the clerks and others, need additional facilities. The staff and all those associated with Parliament who work for the people of this country certainly look forward to a better parliament house, better facilities and surroundings. I do not wish to say more than that I hope the Parliament will reject this suggestion and that the Senate, in good sense, will accept the original motion which was sent forward and let a new Parliament 
House get under way. From what I have seen of the Senate, it could do with some improvements in its own facilities over there, as far as honourable senators are concerned. This offers the Senate that opportunity. 
I suggest again to the honourable member for Murray that while it does him little credit to criticise honourable members on this side of the House for what has been done, by all means he should aim his darts at those who sat on this side for a long time and those in ministries who enjoyed to the full what a Minister could get in regard to facilities. Honourable members then on this side, as well as those of us who were then in Opposition, were given nothing at all in regard to what is needed by private members. I well remember that a member of the Opposition when he was defeated said: 'Do not blame us if you never get anything over there. Our Ministers did not give us anything either.' So it was all a one-way traffic. Under the previous Government 27 men had all the facilities that mattered and private members got nothing inside or outside the Parliament. This practical attempt by the Government to see that we get under way with the new Parliament House deserves to be supported. Motions aimed at delaying the commencement of the important construction of a new Parliament House deserve to be opposed. We should send this resolution back to the Senate. We should advise the Senate that we want to get under way and that we hope it wants the same thing and supports the original motion which was sent there. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Speaker, I raise a matter of privilege based on 2 articles which appeared in the Sydney  Daily Mirror  newspaper of 19 August 1975 and the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of 20 August 1975. I produce a copy of the  Daily Mirror  newspaper printed and published by Mirror Newspapers Ltd, 20-24 Holt Street, Surry Hills, and of the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  which is printed and published by Mirror Newspapers Ltd, 2 Holt Street, Surry Hills. I refer firstly to the article which appeared in the  Daily Mirror  of 1 9 August under the caption 'MPs Battle The Budget Flight Rule: Daly tells how to beat it'. The article states: 
Federal Ministers have been told how to beat the discomfort of economy travel. 
The answer, from the Minister for Services and Property,  Mr Fred  Daly: Travel a day early and stay overnight at $48 a night. 
But senior public servants are hopping mad over the suggestion for Ministers to veto the Government's economy class travel ruling this way. 

 Mr Daly opposed last night's Caucus decision that all members of Parliament and public servants must forego first class privileges and fly economy. 
Those affected by the ruling can get around it by travelling the day before appointments and staying overnight to ensure they are rested, 'lie said. 

 Mr Daly's advice is in direct conflict with a Public Service rule that overnight stays must be avoided wherever possible. 
I do not intend to read the rest of the article. I seek the leave of the House to incorporate it in Hansard. 
To add more fuel to the fire the Sydney  Daily Telegraph,  that great old organ of democracy, has published a similar article. I seem to recollect that its proprietor recently spoke about the freedom of the Press. That puts my ideas more in keeping with those of the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass).  The likes of the Kavanaghs, and others I suppose, do not want any Press people inquiring into their integrity. Arising out of the false article by Kavanagh, another article appeared in the  Daily Telegraph  of 20 August 1975. It reads: 
We find particularly reprehensible the attitude of the Minister for Services and Property,  Mr Daly,  who suggested that ministers could beat the new ruling by travelling a day early- and then banging in a claim for an extra $48 overnight expenses. 
These statements were falsely made by Kavanagh, and now we find  Mr Murdoch,  that great defender of the integrity of the Press, printing the lie in the leading article of his newspaper and thus in his way adding fuel to the fire and undermining the prestige of this Parliament.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard  the leading article from today's  Daily Telegraph. 
I take no objection to whatever attacks are made on me personally- I can put up with them- but the articles to which I have referred are false and misleading and in my view they represent a grave reflection on the Parliament and its members. These articles originated from an article written by Kavanagh in Canberra. They are false, as are the actions attributed to me. This journalist- and I give him a polite name again- made no effort to check the facts with me at the time but he decided that he would ridicule Parliament from memory probably before the cost of spirits rose last night. I do not know the journalistic nonentity who signed himself as Trevor Kavanagh from Canberra and I have no regard for his ability or his integrity, because anybody with any commonsense would not write such an article as he wrote, and no journalist would be silly enough to sign it if he had any integrity. 
What my views are of journalists of this kind, unfortunately, the Standing Orders prevent me from expressing in this Parliament. I understand that Kavanagh represents a newspaper that is owned by  Mr Rupert  Murdoch. I wonder what  Mr Murdoch  thinks of the type of individual that he engages in the Parliament. The big danger in these articles is that some obsecure and unknown journalist like Kavanagh could, if he so desired, undermine a member of this Parliament by methods such as this. He could destroy the member personally in certain circumstances and at the same time the Parliament. Honourable members opposite may laugh but this can be done. I have in mind that an attempt was made in my time to do it and this House dealt with the people who tried to do it. If this kind of thing is tolerated there will be no end to what unknown nonentities in the Press, engaged by Press barons who preach freedom of the Press and then destroy every principle associated with it, can do to this Parliament and its members. 

 Mr Speaker, may I now seek your guidance as to whether you wish me to move forthwith a motion to refer this matter to the Committee of Privileges, or whether, in accordance with the usual practice, you propose to take the opportunity to consider whether a prima facie case of breach of privilege has been made out. 

 - Mr Speaker, rarely have 1 heard tonight's speakers to better advantage. I thank particularly my colleague the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  for his sincere and complimentary remarks. In return, may I say that he also is a very distinguished member of this House and his cheerful acceptance of giving and taking and suffering the disappointments that go with parliamentary life should be an example to all members of Parliament. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that my slogan was: 'Give us this day our Daly Fred'. But the Liberals on that occasion, as usual, were very dirty in their campaign and they put out a slogan that I thought was very nasty. It was: Be healthy, be liberal, be clean, change Daly. It was a good sign but they put it up in too many places near the gas works and it did not last long. I am happy to say that very few of my girls changed Daly. 
I sincerely thank honourable members for their compliments. I thank my colleague, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  I have a soft spot for the Country Party although it may not always be apparent. I look with great concern at Ralph Hunt and worry about how he will go in the electorate. When I lived in Currabubula the only culture was agriculture. Now, under Liberal and National Country Party representation, they have really turned the corner. When I went to Currabubula to attend an art show even I bought a few products in the company of my distinguished friend from New England. I thank him sincerely for his complimentary remarks tonight. In other circumstances and at other times and if I had been misguided- you never know- I might have been a National Country Party member. Fortunately I saw the light in time and shifted to the city. 
I was interested also to hear my colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  speak tonight. I am always worried about Philippi because I understand that when I get to Philippi I will know my hour has come. I am always embarrassed by the honourable member for Moreton because he is so intelligent that it takes me days to know whether I have been insulted or praised by him. Whenever he says anything about me the Library goes mad. Its officers say: 'Do you want to know what  Mr Killen  said again?' I say: 'Yes'. They say to me: 'It is all right'. So I go and rest happily. The honourable member might recollect also that with one of those gags I sometimes shoot down 58 galahs. Little did we know the talent of the honourable members opposite for poetry. Tonight we heard it even from the National Country Party. That is really notable. The honourable member for Moreton is a well known poet in this place. I thank honourable members sincerely for their very generous remarks. I thank the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who made possible my occupation of my present position, for his very complimentary remarks. 
When I came to this place I made Paul Keating look like a heavyweight. I weighed 8 stone 6 pounds and thought I knew everything; but when I looked across the table and saw Billy Hughes, the late John Curtin, the late Ben Chifley, not to mention the late Artie Fadden,  Sir John  McEwen, Harold Holt and Larry Anthony, the father of Doug Anthony, I knew that I was not the top weight that I thought I was. Politics has given to me the opportunity to live with some of the really great men on both sides of the Parliament. I came into this Parliament at the time of the war in 1943 and was here when Douglas MacArthur walked into the dining room, where we sat tonight, and it was a case of salvation through him, America and others. They are great memories of grim and difficult times. They are memories that I cherish and for which I have a great regard. I was privileged to enter the Parliament when I was young. They were formative years and years that I have never forgotten. I had the opportunity, thanks to my membership of the Labor Party and the support of the people in my district, to mingle with the greats of Australian politics and to have not only experiences but also memories that probably come to few people. 
It is interesting to note that at this stage there is nobody on the staff or in the Parliament who was here when I came here. There is a certain sadness about that, but a great deal of experience and many memories are associated with the time that has elapsed since I first came to the Parliament. The National Country Party will well remember the late Joe Abbott, a famous Country Party member. In those days there were great debates. We did see fit to nationalise the banks on one occasion. That not only frightened the banks but also, I think, frightened hell out of us. Few people would know what an exciting experience it is for an honourable member who has a majority of about 150 in an electorate of 70 000 to have to listen to thousands and thousands of protests about legislation. Some of our fellows had 2 people helping them- one opening the protests and the other destroying them, they were so frightened. 
People tell me today that we have problems but they just do not know what was around in those days. Not many people realise that during the war years, when we were looking for a vote, it was difficult even to get a sheep's liver. First of all a woman who wanted one had to go and get a medical prescription. Then she had to send it to the rationing commission, and then the rationing commission rang up the local member to see whether she was entitled to the liver, and if she was entitled to it she sent the prescription to the butcher. Then the butcher sent it to the rationing commission and in the end I sent her a letter and said: 'The liver is all right, madam; you can live a while longer'. It sounds funny now but it kept a lot of people alive. The Indian people in Australia wanted rice. Well, one was forever racing around looking for rice packets. Those kinds of things all happened in those years of conflict, and I have great memories of them. 
I found when I looked up the record tonight that I have served with 8 Prime Ministers, the vast majority of them, unfortunately, Liberals. I also found that I have been here in the time of 9 GovernorsGeneral. In addition to that, of course,- 1 served with other ex-Prime Ministers in Jim Scullin and the late  Sir Earle  Page and others. All in all they are memories worth recalling. A night like this in the Parliament is to me a tremendous thing and I thank sincerely those on both sides of the House who have made it possible. 
When I was elected to Parliament I was told that I was a oncer. I ask those honourable members opposite who hold slim seats to remember that. Then I won the second time and I was a twicer. Then the electors made me a lifer, which made me happier still. The point about the thrust of politics is that it is a dangerous thing to make permanent enemies on either side or even in one's own Party because the fellow who is against you today may be with you tomorrow. Consequently while we fight bitterly here, I always think that it is like a football match. You want to be able to forget what has happened if you can. But emotions run deep, issues are great and, of course, inevitably we get into conflict sometimes in a way that involves us much more deeply than we would wish. 
In the Parliament we represent all sections. No matter who we might be, we are privileged and tremendously fortunate to be members of Parliament when we realise that there are only 127 of us out of a population of 13 million. When we think things are bad, we should remember that we have been chosen to act in the interests of the people whom we want to see enjoy a good way of life, free and secure economically and in every way. 
Generally speaking I have had great friendships on both sides of the Parliament. I will never forget how magnificent my friend the honourable member for Moreton was on one occasion. It was a magnificent occasion. Even the then Prime Minister said so. I value his friendship although I would not like him to represent me in court. But he is all right to listen to here. 
Having said so much, I would like to thank again sincerely members of this House. I have spoken tonight in a somewhat congenial and frivolous way but I would like honourable members to know that the way in which I have spoken does not hide the sincerity I feel tonight for the comradeship displayed in this gathering and for the sentiments expressed by all who have spoken. In every way this will be a golden day in my political career. It will be something to remember; something to record. I never thought on that long day. 32 years ago today that I would see such a day. To you all I express my sincere thanks for a really great compliment which is deeply appreciated. I will seek to restore first class air travel and also cut out the use of the gag and the guillotine as a gesture of my appreciation and goodwill to you all. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Shire of Belmont first sought the return of the land referred to in 1932 for recreation purposes and again sought it in 1969 for the purposes of providing aged persons homes. In February 1973 the land which was then valued at $238,000 was offered to the Shire for $184,000. This price was not acceptable to the Shire which sought an unspecified but substantially reduced price. 
The Australian Minister for Housing and Construction and the former Western Australian Minister for Housing announced in March 1974 a proposal to develop the land as a fully co-operative housing venture involving the Australian and Western Australian Governments and the Shire of Belmont. It is envisaged that areas will be used for Defence Service housing, family housing and aged persons homes. There has been continual liaison between the two Governments to ensure the success of this project and investigations are continuing to determine the most suitable development having regard to community needs and the economics of the proposal. 
Government Land in Broadmeadows  (Question No. 2490) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
1 ) and (2) The future use of the Australian Government land in Camp Road, Broadmeadows is under investigation. The Department of Defence is re-examining its requirements and the extent of other Australian Government requirements is being determined. 
The honourable member was good enough to advise me that he intended to ask a question on this important matter. For the benefit of the House I shall read out a Press statement by the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator John  Wheeldon, about the return of accounts and receipts by Medibank. He said: 
Medibank will continue to return accounts and receipts to people who still want them . . . Although they will not be returned automatically as in the past, anyone who sends a large stamped self-addressed envelope within four weeks of receiving their Medibank cheque and statement will have their documents sent back to them. 
-Do not forget that if the Opposition had its way people would not have Medibank. Even  Mr Lewis  has found out that opposition to Medibank was a great political mistake. The Press release continues: 
This means that people who want their receipts and accounts can receive them, but the responsibility is now with the person concerned rather than Medibank. By not returning accounts and receipts Medibank hopes to save more than $2.8m this financial year. 
That should appeal to the money savers opposite. 
Contrary to claims by the MBF in New South Wales, receipts and accounts are not necessary and health insurance funds have sufficient information on the Medibank statement to enable them to pay 'gap' insurance. 'The attitude of MBF appears to be in line with the previous obstructive stance they have taken on nearly every issue on Medibank since its inception. Fortunately, to thencredit, the other health insurance funds in Australia have chosen to take a much more constructive and helpful attitude to Medibank'  Senator Wheeldon  said. 'I am encouraged by the news that the HCF in New South Wales will be assisting its customers by accepting the Medibank statement in lieu of accounts and receipts',  Senator Wheeldon  said. 'Claims by the Australian Medical Association, the MBF and others that this procedure will give rise to fraudulent claims are not true. If the health funds keep proper records of claims that they have paid it should be a simple matter to check that payment is not duplicated in future. If the MBF is worried about fraud, I can only assume that their accounting and other records are inadequate ',  Senator Wheeldon  said. 
A check of other major funds throughout Australia, including HBF in Western Australia, HBA in Victoria and MHA in South Australia say that they are all prepared to accept the Medibank statement for gap insurance. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Department of Social Security for the financial year ended 30 June 1975. 
The qualifications for a person to be a candidate for the House of Representatives are clearly set out in section 69 of the Electoral Act. They are also covered by sections 43 and 44 of the Constitution. I refer the honourable member to those provisions. They are very wide, very broad, and they allow full scope for persons desiring to be elected to this place or to another place. I might be permitted to give the House an idea of how broad the spectrum is for persons who desire to nominate. 
I understand that a  Mr Michael  Baume, a company director and an endorsed Liberal Party candidate for the next election, joined Patrick Partners in 1969. Under the Act as it stands, he can be the candidate for Macarthur at the coming election. He has been closely allied in recent weeks with  Mr Fraser  in writing his economic policy. I understand that on Budget night this candidate worked in  Mr Fraser's  Parliament House office drafting statements for the Opposition Leader's attack on the Government's Budget proposals. He also helped to write the speech on the Budget which the Leader of the Opposition delivered in Parliament last night. 
For the information of honourable members I present statistical returns for each State showing the voting within each subdivision in relation to the Senate election 1974 and the general election for the House of Representatives 1974. 
Due to the limited number available, reference copies of these papers have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies, or (d) matching grants to non-government bodies or individuals is available through the Department of Services and Property. 
and (3) See (1) above. 
 Financial Assistance by Department of  Northern Australia  (Question No. 2685) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 2789 which appeared in Hansard, 5 June 1975, pages 3546-3547. 
I have seen the unprincipled and offensive advertisements inserted by the organisations which the honourable member mentioned and relating to the Government's insurance legislation. I have not personally been approached as the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation in connection with the withdrawal of the National Compensation Bill, but I understand that the Minister may well have been. It is interesting that the honourable member should have asked this question this morning because, quite mysteriously but quite appropriately at this time into my possession has come a document. It deals particularly with both matters that the honourable member has spoken to me about. It is a document sent out under the heading 'Life and General Insurance Committee'. The address is given as Tasmania- 40-44 Murray Street, Hobart- and a telephone number is given. The document says: 
Protecting Free Enterprise Insurance 
It is dated 22 August and it says: 
Strenuous and magnificent efforts by members of the Insurance Industry throughout Australia over recent months have come to fruition in the defeat of the Bill to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
Although we can all justly take pride in these efforts they would have come to nothing without the support of the Liberal-National Country Party in the Parliament- 
This relates to the second part of the honourable member's question:  . . . and at some time in the future it is possible we will again be looking for this support should National Compensation and National Superannuation be re-introduced by the Government. 
It shows the interest. It goes on. 
In the meantime, the Liberal Parry in Tasmania has asked for the support of the Insurance Industry in the campaigns of endorsed Liberal candidates and I have promised this support. 
There is more to come. It says: 
On Saturday, 30 August, the party has asked for forty volunteers to door knock with literature for Michael Hodgman in the Denison Electorate. 
Again, magnificently, it says: 
I have promised this support. It will cost you approximately three hours of your time and I feel confident your support is forthcoming. 
This same letter has been forwarded to twenty five responsible people in our Industry asking for the same commitment and asking them to bring one other person with them to assist with this task. 
Here is a chance for a few honourable members opposite, except some of the bachelors. It goes on: 
The other person can be a member of your office staff- 
I hope honourable members opposite do not take any of those being paid for by the Government -  . . . your wife, your son or daughter of voting age. 
It could well have mentioned anybody silly enough to follow this kind of advice. Then it says: 
Your commitment is most important 
Please advise me NO LATER THAN 28th August, your intention to assist and advise also the name of your associate. 
Helpers are requested to report to Liberal Party Headquarters- 
Listen to the name of the street -  30 Patrick Street- 
Would that not make Michael Baume happy? It goes on:  . . . between 9.00 a.m. and 2.00 p.m. on Saturday, 30th, where they will be directed to the area in which they are to operate. 
Yours sincerely, Brian McInerney Chairman 
That shows the hysterical and hypocritical campaign of these people. These letters are all sent out at contributors' expense without any reference to them and without any appreciation of the importance of the legislation. It is a disgraceful misuse of the funds of the contributors to the insurance companies, particularly when it is considered that the Government that they are maligning pays them $ 1 5m a year rent out of the taxpayers funds, 30 per cent of the total rent paid. They are prepared to destroy the Government that is practically keeping them going in industry. I thank the honourable member for the question. It has allowed me to expose the misuse of funds and the need above all else for this Parliament to legislate to make available to the public the source of the interests and the finances behind those who sit opposite in this Parliament. 
For the information of honourable members I present the first main report of the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty conducted by Professor R. F. Henderson, dated April 1975. In addition I present an outline of that report prepared by the Commission of Inquiry together with a statement by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Wheeldon)  on the report. 
I support the amendment so ably moved by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Crean).  It 'commends the Prime Minister for his concise and explicit outlining of the fallacies contained in the poorly constructed Opposition economic program and condemns the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the National Country Party for their failure to approach the economic problems of this country in a responsible manner'. If any motion referred to the Opposition today it was the one which was moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  We have just listened to the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  He is not even a member of the shadow Cabinet; his economic advice is constantly disregarded. The only time the Opposition allows him to speak in this Parliament on economic matters is when nobody on the opposite side of the House is prepared to defend the economic policies of the new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
In addition, the right honourable member for Lowe is not even listed among the shadow Treasurers. Everybody knows that the Treasurer in that far distant day when there may be another Liberal-National Country Party government will be the Leader of the National Country Party. We have a  deputy  shadow Minister here. The aspirant at the table, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  does not even show promise although he reckons he is better than all of them. I am reminded of a statement which appeared in today's newspaper in regard to the right honourable member for Lowe. It was made by  Sir Robert  Askin, who is almost a saint in the ranks of the Liberal Party of New South Wales. In today's leading Liberal organ the Sydney  Daily Telegraph,  Sir Robert  is reported as saying: 
I think it is ridiculous when old men like Gorton and McMahon go around talking about nothing- they should give the young blokes a go. 
I endorse  Sir Robert  Askin 's remarks. Being a young man myself I endorse also his approach to this problem. Everybody knows that the Budget proposals put forward by the Opposition were irresponsible. They would cause increased inflation and unemployment. The policies put forward by the Leader of the Opposition would have increased the deficit by $ 1,800m, taking it to just on $4,600m. The Opposition says we should cut down expenditure. It would make interest rates rise which would cause companies to go broke and increase unemployment. The Opposition's tax relief proposals would cost $2,3 50m, not $ 1,000m as was said. 
It was a big man's Budget containing $500m in tax concessions alone to the huge industries of this country. It did not take into consideration other expenditures. What about the $10m that the Opposition spokesman on defence has promised to restore school cadets? What about the promise of the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs for another $20m or $30m for Papua New Guinea? What about the abolition of the means test that has been promised in the year 1975 for everybody over 65 years of age in this magnificent production paid for by the oil combines and others which shows the way ahead under a Liberal-Country Party government. In that production those Parties promise to abolish this year the means test for every person over the age of 65 years, which would cost about an additional $240m. Where was that mentioned in the Fraser Budget? Why was this not told to the Australian people? This is only one of many such instances. 
On every page of the Fraser Budget the Opposition is undertaking to spend a couple of million dollars, let alone the $240m I mentioned a few moments ago. Therefore the Leader of the Government was completely right when he said that the Fraser Budget was a false and misleading document designed to trick the people of this country under the guise of being responsible budgeting. This was indicated this morning in a question which was asked of the Prime Minister. I thought the Leader of the Opposition had given up drinking beer, he was so crook on the increase in beer prices. I thought all honourable members opposite had given away their scotch and soda because of the prices. I thought they were going to make certain that they never smoked again. But now we find that they are quite in favour of these proposals. 
The Leader of the Opposition implied, when making his speech the other night, that they would abolish our proposals in respect of these commodities and that he would therefore give to the Australian people another $1,1 91m in concessions. He implied that he would not proceed with the increased beer excise which would give the Government an extra $234m, the increases in the excise on spirits which would give an extra $12m, the increase in the excise on tobacco which would give $75m, the increase in the tax on crude petroleum which would give an extra $2 80m, the export duty on coal which would give an extra $120m, the increase in company tax which would give an extra $75m and the increase in income tax which would give an extra $395m. Does the Opposition agree with all these proposed increases now? Do our modest friends in the National Country Party now agree with these proposals, that Party whose Leader significantly did not want to support the Liberal Party attitude on this matter in Parliament today, whose name does not appear on the list of speakers on this issue and who would not be associated with the debate? It has been clearly implied in this Parliament that the Leader of the National Country Party was not consulted on many matters associated with the Fraser Budget. 
I ask honourable members opposite: What was going to happen to all this increased expenditure? Why was an explanation not included in the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition on Tuesday night? It was for the simple reason that members of the Opposition know that had the policy expressed by their Leader in Parliament on Tuesday night been introduced it would have meant doubling the present deficit. Why would his proposals not represent an awful Budget? The adviser on the Fraser Budget was Michael Baume, a partner in Patrick Partners, a firm which today is involved in probably the greatest scandal on the Stock Exchange in the history of this country. An article in the  Sunday Press  claims that on Budget night Michael Baume sat with the Leaders opposite and wrote the speech on the Budget for the Leader of the Opposition. Michael Baume 's budgeting has sent Patrick Partners broke. They owe $2.6m and the partners may be expelled from the Sydney Stock Exchange. These are the kind of people that the Liberal Party wants to run the country. 
The  Sunday Press  article states that  Mr Michael  Baume is 44 years old, a company director and an endorsed Liberal candidate for Macarthur at the next elections and that he joined Patrick Partners in 1969. The article continues: 
In recent weeks however,  Mr Baume  has been closely involved with  Mr Fraser  on economic policy. 
Let us hope for the sake of the country, if in some far distant time the Opposition does get into Government, that  Mr Baume  writes different budgets from those which he wrote for Patrick Partners. The  Sunday Press  article goes on to say: 
Two weeks ago he attended a confidential meeting with leading businessmen and senior Opposition members in Melbourne to review the coalition 's economic strategy. 
The National Country Party does not know what is happening. Its members have to be told this to wake them up. The newspaper says: 
On Budget night  Mr Baume  worked in  Mr Fraser  's Parliament House office, drafting statements for the Opposition Leader attacking the Government 's Budget proposals. 
I think  Mr Baume  wrote the speech which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made today. The newspaper article claims that  Mr Baume  was also helping to write the Budget speech that the Leader of the Opposition delivered in Parliament on Tuesday night. It adds: 
But a number of Liberal backbenchers, and several senior frontbenchers, are concerned at the political repercussions of  Mr Baume  's role as an economic adviser to  Mr Fraser  at this time. 
It goes on: 
Patrick Partners, the biggest stockbroking firm in the country during the mining boom, is fighting to stay out of bankruptcy. 
It went into receivership on July 27 with liabilities exceeding the estimated value of assets by $2.6m. 
If you have a man like that writing the Opposition's speeches on the Budget, and he has been writing the prospectus and other things for Patrick Partners, why would not this Fraser Budget be a misleading Budget for the Australian people? Hidden in the Opposition's Budget are those increases about which they are not telling the people. Hidden in it are some of the sinister designs and what you might call plans which probably sent Patrick Partners broke in days gone by. 
The Opposition should remember that we on this side of the Parliament believe in responsible government. We know that the National Country Party is only half in agreement with the policy of members opposite. The National Country Party was not consulted on the increased postal charges but its members say that they are accepting them. From the way that members of that Party have been moaning and groaning about the bush we thought that they were going to disallow the increases. The situation is that they were not prepared to fight an election on the Government's Budget because the people of Australia, throughout the length and breadth of the country, know that it is a responsible Budget. 
I feel that this has been indicated this morning by the motion that we have moved and by the speakers that the Opposition has put up to debate that motion. The Opposition put up a  speaker  who was Treasurer so far back that he is hardly remembered and whom the Opposition does not even consider to be worth a vote as a member of its shadow cabinet. Heavens above, there are enough members in that shadow cabinet! The Opposition has almost run out of members to put m it. Already there are 3 1 members of it and everybody who disagrees with the Leader of the Opposition is put there to keep him quiet. Yet the gentleman who just spoke, the right honourable member for Lowe, cannot get into that motley mob that makes up the Opposition's shadow cabinet. 
I believe that the motion we have moved deserves to be supported. We have put up a responsible Budget. Honourable members opposite seek to mislead the people. They have been exposed by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Prime Minister. The people can well judge our Budget by its ultimate success and by the prosperity that will come to this country. I see no purpose in wasting the time of the House any further and I move: 
That the question be now put. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this BUI is: To provide for optional preferential marking of ballot-papers at Senate elections. This BUI is presented as the first in a series of 6 Bills which the Government has decided to introduce in its continuing efforts to bring about the much needed electoral reforms contained in the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill 1974. As honourable members will be aware, the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill was first introduced into this House on 13 November 1974 and was passed by this House on 25 November 1974. It was refused a second reading by the Senate 3 days later. The Electoral Laws Amendment BUI was then passed a second time by this House on 10 April 1975, but was unacceptably amended by the Senate on 14 May 1975. The Senate subsequently insisted on its amendments which in effect stripped the Bill of its vital measures and emasculated it in such a manner that the original identity of the Bill was virtually destroyed. The amendments made by the Senate were unacceptable to this House and the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill was laid aside on 3 June 1975. 
It would be both tedious and superfluous for me once again to list all the proposals contained in the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill. That Bill was designed to introduce vital and long overdue reforms to our electoral system, a system which although the envy of several overseas countries, is far from perfect. The Government continues to place great importance on the achievement of substantial electoral reform, despite the persistent obstruction it has encountered at the hands of the Opposition parties. We are determined to pursue these vital reforms, step by step, until successful. For that reason, the Government has chosen to divide the proposals contained in the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill into 6 separate Bills, each capable of standing on its own and being enacted independent of the other 5 Bills. 
As with the parent Electoral Laws Amendment Bill itself, the proposals contained in these 6 Bills, taken as a whole, are designed to implement improved voting facilities; to provide more realistic and less cumbersome voting procedures which will assist electors to exercise their franchise effectively by the recording of valid votes; to permit a speedier finalisation of election results and to reduce the scope for electoral malpractice in any guise. The Government is hopeful that these non-partisan objectives will yet receive the support of the Opposition parties. They are in no way designed to favour a particular political party, a particular type of candidate or a particular type of elector. 
This first Bill, the Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1975, is designed simply to provide for the optional preferential marking of ballot papers at Senate elections. The Opposition parties react hysterically to any mention of optional preferential voting, and yet they themselves have introduced it on a number of occasions. They introduced the procedure for Advisory Council elections in the Australian Capital Territory and they also selected the optional preferential procedure for the people of Papua and New Guinea. Optional preferential voting is also used for elections for the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the South Australian Legislative Council. 
As honourable members are aware, under the existing preferential system, each voter, irrespective of his or her individual wish, is compelled to rank in order of preference all the candidates on a Senate ballot paper, even where this requires the sequential numbering of 73 squares, as was the case for the 1974 Senate election in New South Wales. Surely it must be recognised that this imposes a most difficult burden, sometimes an impossible burden, upon the voters and leads to a ballot paper being rendered informal even though the voter inadvertently fell into error at the stage of marking a preference which may never have been required in the count.  (Quorum formed). 
Furthermore, the existing law compels an elector to express a preference for candidates about whom he has no knowledge, or towards whom he may be positively hostile. Faced with such a meaningless, undemocratic requirement, many electors either intentionally or unintentionally fail to correctly mark all necessary squares on the ballot paper. The consequence is that their ballot papers are rejected as informal and their votes are wasted. At the last Senate elections on 18 May 1974, the informal vote, Australia-wide, averaged 10.77 per cent. In New South Wales, where there were 73 candidates, the average informal vote was as high as 12.31 per cent. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  for the benefit of honourable members, a statement provided by the Chief Electoral Officer showing the percentage of informal votes recorded at the 1974 Senate election in each State and in each electoral division throughout Australia. 
(2.58)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, the second in a series of six Bills containing proposals originally encompassed by the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill, provides for the optional preferential marking of ballot papers at 
House of Representatives elections. The basic feature of the optional preferential system, embodied in the Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1975 which I introduced earlier today, whereunder electors should be compelled only to express a preference for the number of candidates to be elected, is also inherent in this Bill. Although far fewer candidates stand for House of Representatives elections than for Senate elections, the underlying principle that electors should not be compelled to vote for candidates for whom they have no preference still applies. 
Under the optional preferential system proposed by this Bill a voter at a House of Representatives election must indicate his first preference for one candidate and may indicate his further preference for some or all of the remaining candidates, as he so desires. The exchange of preferences between candidates will not be impeded in any way and this practice will no doubt continue. To the extent that preferences beyond the first shown on the ballot papers are required to determine the result of the election, such preferences will be counted. What is more important however is that a ballot paper would not be rejected outright because the voter failed by inadvertence or otherwise to indicate an order of preference for all the candidates. This, of course, is the case under the full preferential system, despite the fact that the majority of House of Representatives seats are decided on the count of first preferences. 
Let me stress, as I have done on other occasions, that optional preferential voting is not a 'first-past-the-post' system masquerading under another name. It is true that if all voters deliberately refrained from expressing any preferences beyond the first preference, the result under optional preferential voting in an election for a member of the House of Representatives would be the same as in a first past the post system. However, this is a hypothetical proposition which has not eventuated in elections under the optional preferential system in Australia in the past, nor is it likely to eventuate in the future. The results of elections of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and, more recently, the South Australian Legislative Council, indicate that a majority of electors voting under an optional preferential system will express preferences beyond the minimum number required to cast a formal vote. 
There is another important aspect which I wish to stress. Under the optional preferential system proposed by this Bill a candidate cannot be elected unless he has received more than 50 per cent of the votes in the count at the stage he is elected. It is recognised of course, that some votes may become 'exhausted' during the distribution of preferences in a Division where it is necessary to exclude a candidate- or candidatesand further preferences are not shown on the ballot-papers concerned. However, the saving in informal voting which must result from the acceptance of ballot papers which, although bearing a first preference, do not indicate preferences for all candidates, can be expected to offset votes which become exhausted. It can be said that the optional preferential procedure ensures that meaningful preferences are distributed whereas the present system can lead to the election of a candidate with a manufactured majority based on what may well be preferences randomly assigned by the voters. 
Like the Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1975, this is a non-partisan reform which is designed to introduce a system of voting which provides for the maximum flexibility and democratic freedom of choice for the voters while maintaining the essential elements of a full preferential system, should the voters choose to indicate preferences for all candidates in the election. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Garland)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to bring about a fundamental and widely sought change to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. It seeks to amend the Act by inserting a new part to provide for the printing of the political affiliations of candidates on the ballot papers for both House of Representatives and Senate elections; and providing for the printing and exhibition of a list setting out the names of the candidates and, where applicable, the names of the respective parties by which the candidates are endorsed. As a necessary corollary to this reform, it is proposed that political parties be registered in order that the 'bona fides ' of a political affiliation claimed by any candidate may be properly authenticated. Honourable members will readily appreciate the importance of making adequate provision so that the Chief 
Australian Electoral Officer can ensure that correct and genuine party affiliations are shown in respect of the candidates. 
The Bill proposes that an application for the registration of a party name may be lodged with the Chief Australian Electoral Officer who would be required to keep a register called the  Register of Names of Political Parties.  Provision is made in the Bill so that the Chief Australian Electoral Officer may refuse an application for the registration of a name in respect of a party in specified circumstances, for example, if, in his opinion, the name is the same or is likely to be confused with the registered name of another party. The Bill also sets out the criterion which a party must meet in order to have the affiliation of its candidates shown on the ballot papers. In general terms, to qualify, parties must endorse candidates for not less than one-quarter of the number of vacancies to be filled in the State at a Senate election or, in the case of a general election of members of the House of Representatives, onequarter of the number of divisions in the State. In respect of casual vacancies in the Senate, or byelections for the House of Representatives, the party must have met this test at the last preceding Senate election or general election of members of the House of Representatives, as is appropriate. 
This Bill would be unnecessary and irrelevant if we 'did not recognise political parties as part of the Australian electoral system. However, they are so recognised and it cannot be denied that a large number of the electors vote for the candidate representing the political party of their choice. We intend therefore by this Bill to assist the electors to knowingly record their votes, particularly in circumstances where they are uncertain of, or unable to ascertain, the political affiliations of the candidates appearing on the ballot paper. In registering parties and printing political affiliations on ballot papers we are joining the following countries: Argentina, Austria, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Denmark, Gambia, West Germany, Greece, India, Ireland, Italy, South Korea, Luxemburg, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Peru, Portugal, Sierra Leone, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom and the United States of America. 
No basic civil liberties are infringed by this proposal nor is there anything curious or ominous about showing the political affiliation of the candidates on the ballot papers. Indeed, it is an eminently fair and effective means of assisting and informing the electors and we believe it is a much needed reform which would meet with widespread approval. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Eric  Robinson adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill, a further Bill incorporating proposals contained in the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill, is to provide for: Closing of the poll at 6 p.m. in lieu of 8 p.m.; drawing for positions of candidates on the ballot papers at House of Representatives elections; increasing the amount of deposit required for nomination at both House of Representatives and Senate elections; changing the formula governing forfeiture of deposits at House of Representatives and Senate elections; and revising penalties for electoral offences in line with present monetary values. Some of the provisions of this Bill are very similar to the proposed amendments to the Parliamentary Electorates and Elections Act (New South Wales) which the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Lewis,  recently announced, and which include, among other proposals: Closing of polling at 6.0 p.m. in lieu of 8.0 p.m.; order of candidates names on ballot paper to be determined by lot; and increasing the amount of deposit required for nomination at Legislative Assembly elections. 
The proposed variation in the conditions governing forfeiture of deposit at House of Representatives and Senate elections, and the new schedule of electoral offences and punishments, are matters which met with substantial agreement when the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill was before the House and I do not feel that there is a need for me to deal further with these aspects in respect of the present Bill. However, the proposal to increase deposits for House of Representatives and Senate candidates merits further brief comment. The essential purpose of the proposal to increase deposits is to reduce the number of persons who might be tempted or influenced to nominate for either Senate or House of Representatives elections for obstructive or frivolous reasons. This occurred in the 1974 Senate elections when an individual publicly admitted that he had sponsored a number of candidates in order to deliberately obstruct the Senate elections in New South Wales. In fact I understand only time prevented him from nominating about 140 candidates. It is anticipated that if changes of this kind are not made up to 250 candidates could contest the next Senate elections in New South Wales as a result of action which may be taken by people similarly intentioned. Let me stress that this proposal is not designed to reduce the number of genuine candidates or to discourage candidates from nominating. The 1974 Senate elections in New South Wales, when there were 73 candidates, and to a lesser extent the 1 974 Senate elections in certain other States, gave a clear indication of what might happen in the future unless a sufficient deterrent is introduced to operate against frivolous candidature or candidature designed to infringe upon, or obstruct, the democratic process of election. Obviously, the present deposit amounts are clearly inappropriate, given current monetary values. 
Nor is there anything radical about the proposal to amend the hours of polling. The poll at Queensland State elections has closed at 6 p.m. since 1915. The Premier of New South Wales recently announced that he intends to introduce this reform shortly in his State. Many local government polls also close at 6 p.m. Any argument that this proposed measure would disfranchise farmers or adherents of certain religious faiths, or generally inconvenience people who vote late in the day, is not persuasive. Postal vote facilities are available to electors who, for the various reasons specified in the Electoral Actincluding religious reasons- will be precluded from voting at a polling booth on polling day. Absent voting facilities enable electors who are outside their subdivision on polling day to vote at any other polling place in the State. These faculties, together with the availability of modern day private and public transport, are adequate to enable electors to conveniently record their votes, and effectively eliminates the need to keep the polling booths open until 8 p.m. A by-product of the earlier closing hour is that the scrutiny can commence 2 hours earlier with the result that the counting trend for which the nation is waiting is known much earlier in the night of polling day. Irrespective of what time polling booths are closed, there will always be people who vote at the last minute or attempt to vote too late. This is a condition of human nature and cannot be overcome by legislation. 
Another long overdue reform contained in this Bill relates to the drawing for positions on the ballot paper in House of Representatives elections. Drawing for positions already occurs in respect of Senate elections and is becoming increasingly commonplace for elections in organisations, political and otherwise. There is no logic in denying this commonsense proposal in respect of elections for this House. The socalled 'donkey vote' does exist and it does give advantage to the candidate who enjoys the top position on the ballot paper. This situation, which becomes more significant in a closely contested election, would of course still obtain even where a draw was conducted to determine the order in which the candidates' names appeared on the ballot paper. However, the draw gives all candidates an equal chance of securing the most favoured position, whereas the present system consistently favours the candidate whose surname begins with a letter higher in the alphabet than the surnames of the other candidates. 
There is nothing even remotely radical or sinister about the proposals contained in this Bill. On the contrary, the measures we propose are straightforward, eminently rational, nonpartisan and deserving of the support of every member of this Parliament. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
: I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is another Bill in the series of Bills derived from the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill designed to implement long overdue reforms to the Australian electoral system. The Bill provides for: The establishment of mobile polling facilities at hospitals and institutions; the retention of franchise rights for persons in the service of the Crown or a public authority outside Australia; a prohibition on sitting members of other legislaturesincluding those of the Territories- from nominating at House of Representatives and Senate elections; a declaration relating to a recent change of name and the printing of a former name on the ballot paper; and a prohibition on the use of offensive or unacceptable names for enrolment and candidature purposes. The Bill also makes a number of fairly minor amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act of a formal or consequential nature. I ask leave of the House to incorporate these amendments in  Hansard.  They are the same as previously. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (MrArmitage) Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
Adding definitions for 'broadcast', 'broadcasting station', 'televises' and 'television station'; providing for a substitute Assistant Returning Officer at a place outside Australia when the original appointee is temporarily absent; providing for the Minister to engage persons to assist the Distribution Commissioners and to fix the remuneration and allowances to be paid to Distribution Commissioners and persons engaged to assist; by substituting 'Given name' in lieu of 'Christian name' in respect of enrolment and voting; substituting 'Status of a British subject' for 'British subject' in respect of qualifications for enrolment, voting and candidature; enabling the Electoral Registrars to correct the roll by altering the address of electors in the case of renumbering or re-naming of any building, thoroughfare, locality, etc. without an application from the electors concerned; substituting '8 kilometres' for '5 miles' as the requisite qualifying distance in order to apply for a postal vote; changing from 21 years to 18 years the qualifying age for appointment of Presiding Officers and Assistant Presiding Officers; providing a defence against prosecution where a candidate unwittingly makes a donation to a club or association etc. within 3 months of polling day; amending the provisions relating to misleading representation of a ballot paper; providing redress for candidates against misleading propaganda distributed to voters; limiting the provisions concerning the signing or authorisation of newspaper articles on the occasion of an election to the period ending with the close of the poll in lieu of the period ending with the return of the writ; requiring an announcement on a broadcasting or television station to be made in a clear and undistorted manner and removing the need for the address of the author to be broadcast or televised; changing to metric measurements the standard measurements in relation to size of electoral posters; enabling the posting up or exhibition within a hall used in connection with an election or referendum an electoral poster irrespective of size; changing to metric measurement the distance relating to canvassing near polling booths; limiting the application of the offence of disorderly behaviour at lawful public political meetings to meetings held on or after the date of the issue of the writ and before the close of the poll (in lieu of the date of the return of the writ). 
As the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  pointed out in this House on 10 April 1975, many of the amendments contained in this Bill were originally embodied in legislation introduced by a Liberal-Country Party government in March 1971. When the provisions contained in this Bill were being dealt with as part of the Electoral Laws Amendment 
Bill there was general agreement with them. I would expect this Bill to be readily agreed to by this House. Consequently, I shall confine myself to elaborating briefly on the more important provisions of the Bill, without engaging in superfluous repetition of what was said by me and other speakers on previous occasions. 
The establishment of mobile polling booths in hospitals is a vital reform, one which would permit polling officials, in the presence of scrutineers, to take the ballot boxes and voting material to bed patients, thus enabling such patients to record ordinary or absent votes. This facility would be a significant step forward in making it easier for the aged and infirm to register their votes, while at the same time removing the need for canvassers and political party organisers to invade the hospitals, convalescent homes and institutions, as they do at present. 
Another worthwhile proposal in this Bill is designed to enable a person who is qualified for enrolment and who is posted overseas in the service of Australia, a State or a public authority- or his or her spouse- to enrol in respect of the overseas address. While it may be argued that this proposition although worthwhile is a little too restrictive, the Government believes that further extension of this privilege is unnecessary. To turn to a further reform proposed in this Bill, the Government believes that, given the present ineligibility of members of State parliaments to stand for election to the Australian Parliament, it would be appropriate for a member of the legislature of the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory to be placed in the same category. Accordingly, the Bill provides that no person who is at the date of nomination, or was at any time within 14 days prior to the date of nomination, a member of the Legislative Assembly for either the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory, shall be eligible for nomination to the Australian Parliament. 
It is also proposed that where a person changes his name within the 12 months prior to nomination, the person shall be required to state the former name in the nomination paper, which will then be included on the ballot paper. Members will be aware that in the past candidates have changed their names just prior to an election for the specific purpose of having the name placed above other candidates on the ballot paper in order to gain some political advantage in the election. This provision will not apply to a change of name by marriage. 
A further proposal deals with the situation where a person seeks to enrol under an unacceptable name. This term includes a name- not being the person's original name- which is offensive, obscene, frivolous or likely to be interpreted as a slogan or as advocating a political objective or policy. In the 1974 Senate election a number of persons enrolled under such names, including 'White Australia' and 'StopAsianImmigrationNow'. The BUI makes it clear that a person is not entitled to be enrolled by an unacceptable name and consequently would be precluded from nominating under such name. Honourable members can imagine the position if either of the candidates using the names I just mentioned was elected to the Senate. 
The 5 main provisions to which I have referred, together with the minor amendments previously supported by the Opposition, will lead to improved voting facilities for electors, will remedy defects in our electoral practices, and create a more democratic and efficient electoral system. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, the last in the series of Bills incorporating proposals previously contained in the Electoral Laws Amendment BUI, provides for: A speedier finalisation of election results, by introducing an earlier deadline for the return of postal votes and by providing for the return of postal votes direct to the respective returning officer; prohibition on the listing of names of persons who apply for postal votes, except in certain specified circumstances; restriction of postal vote application forms to be used at an election or referendum to those specified by notice in the Australian Government Gazette; postal voting faculties for prisoners who have retained their franchise entitlements; discretion to appoint a licensed or registered surveyor as a Distribution Commissioner in lieu of the Surveyor-General of the State concerned; and other minor amendments to the existing electoral law. 
As honourable members are well aware, the present electoral system involves intolerable delays in finalising the election results, particularly when a large number of postal votes is admitted to the scrutiny as was the case in the 1974 House of Representatives elections when almost 5 per cent of the total votes recorded throughout Australia were postal votes. For the information of honourable members I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  details of the number of postal votes admitted to the scrutiny at the 1972 and 1974 House of Representatives elections. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on the Papua New Guinea Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Papua New Guinea Independence Bill, the Papua New Guinea Loans Guarantee Bill, the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Bill and the Social Services 
Bill (No. 2) as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 5 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information, requested by the honourable member is set out in the attached schedules: 
Schedule (a) lists the enrolments in the present 127 Electoral Divisions, as at 27 June 1 975; 
Schedule (b) lists the enrolments in the proposed 12 South Australian and 5 Tasmanian Divisions having the names and boundaries approved by the House of Representatives on 21 May 1975, as at 27 June 1975; and 
Schedule (c) lists the enrolments in the proposed 45 New South Wales, 34 Victorian and 18 Queensland Divisions having the names and boundaries approved by the House of Representatives on 22 May 1975, as at 27 June 1975. 
The enrolments listed in Schedules (b) and (c) should be regarded as estimates only, having been calculated by relating the enrolment figures in existing Divisions as at 27 June 1975 to the boundaries of the proposed Divisions, as defined in the Distribution Commissioners' Reports for South Australia, Tasmania, New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland rspectively. 
Enrolments in the present 127 electoral divisions as at 27 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When  Senator Missen  asked Question No. 539 in the Senate on 14 May 1975, the Australian Electoral Office was not in a position to publish tables showing the voting position at half-hourly intervals on election night in respect of each State and Australia as a whole. This information is now available and is presented in the following tables: 
Progress of the Count in the House of Representatives Election held on 18 May 1974- 
I move: 
I rise briefly to say that the Government rejects the amendment. If honourable members opposite will be patient I Will explain why. Significantly the amendment merely says 'that is the Australian Labor Party', but it does not say 'the selected and endorsed candidate of the Australian Labor Party'. What the amendment means is the Labor candidate selected by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and the National Party and their taggers along in the Liberal Party in Queensland. The person selected under that process would not be a Labor representative because, as the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  said, immediately he accepts nomination he is no longer a member of the Labor Party because he is acting contrary to the rules of the Australian Labor Party. I venture to suggest that he would be acting contrary to the rules of every political party represented in this Parliament. What is wanted by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  those half baked Liberals who sit in Queensland and, evidently, the so-called Liberals in this Parliament is a Labor candidate of the National Party's choice. That is just not acceptable to this Parliament 
All the ballyhoo in the world from the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  a moment ago to try to explain and apologise for his attitude on this matter cannot hide the fact that never in the Queensland Parliament or in any other parliament has a choice been asked for or made by those who are voting in the Parliament. This is trie first time in history that this has been done and we find that Liberal Party in this Parliament- the so-called Liberal Party- accepting this practice. Thank God there is in Queensland at least one Liberal-  Sir Gordon  Chalk- but he must be ashamed of a few of his colleagues who sit here. And thank heavens there is a Killen in this Parliament who has the courage of his convictions. 
Honourable members could take this amendment as a precedent, and precedents have an unfortunate habit of being followed. What this amendment could lead to is this: If there were a plane crash and the Party in power in a State decided to change the complexion of the Senate there would be nothing to stop it from filling the Senate with people from that Party, irrespective of the political complexion of those whom these appointments would be replacing. I might not be here to see it but some honourable members here will live to see things like that happening at the hands of some unscrupulous Premier Uke  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and people like him. Therefore, when they consider this question today they should remember that. 
The Leader of the National Country Party raised a few other matters including the employment of wives and daughters. I did not raise it. He should have a good look at some who sit in possum paddock. They were not above putting their wives and daughters on their staffs when they were able to appoint secretaries. So let him go back to his own backyard and stop throwing stones at the Labor Party. One honourable member from his Party gave the money back because he was so ashamed of his act in the end. The Leader of the National Country Party raised this matter and, if he likes to continue with it, I do not mind giving the names of those involved. If he is going to bring this kind of dirt into the House we should let the people know what these appointments were rather than have the blame put on this side of the House alone. 
Temporary! They would have been there still if there had not been an outcry in the newspapers. Those honourable members involved ran for cover like rats when it broke in the 
Press and that is the only reason the practice was not continued. 
I did not bring it up; the Leader of the Country Party did. Let us look at these appointments, these jobs for the boys. Have honourable members ever heard of  Sir Garfield  Barwick,  Sir John  Spicer,  Mr Justice  Joske,  Sir w'illiam  Gunn? They were appointed by honourable members opposite. Have honourable members ever heard of a man named Ian Allan who represented the electorate of Gwydir? He received a very lucrative appointment as Secretary-General and Director of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission. Have honourable members ever heard of  Mr Arthur,  the former member for Barton? He was appointed by honourable members opposite. Honourable members would have heard of  Sir Howard  Beale, the honourable Don Cameron of Queensland, the honourable F. C. Chaney,  Mr F.  J. Davis,  Mr Roger  Dean,  Sir Alexander  Downer,  Sir Josiah  Francis, the honourable Gordon Freith,  Mr H.  B. Gullett,  Sir Eric  Harrison,  Sir Paul  Hasluck,  Mr J.  B. Howse, Dame Enid Lyons,  Mr MacKinnon, Sir Hubert  Opperman, the honourable Hugh Roberton,  Sir Percy  Spender, the honourable  Sir Thomas  White,  Sir William  Anderson,  Mr E.  J. Cameron,  Sir Charles  McGrath- the Commissioner of the Australian National Airlines Commission-  Mr L.  Moore,  Sir John  Pagan,- former  President  of the Liberal Party-  Mr J.  Serisier, the late  Sir Donald  Cleland,  Sir Denham  Henty- a former Liberal senator-  Sir Alister  McMullin, Dame Annabelle Rankin and Dame Ivy Wedgwood. I have not time to read the other 4 pages of appointments and jobs for the boys that the Opposition handed out. 
What a lot of rot the Leader of the Country Party talks. There was patronage unlimited under the Opposition when it was in office. Now the Opposition wants to tear up every convention in the country. What is more, the Leader of the Country Party said that the first 2 paragraphs of the motion were a lot of rot. Does he know who wrote them? It was the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  and honourable members opposite know they are in trouble over there because the Leader of" the Country Party has said that he is writing rot all the time. Have honourable members ever seen anything like it? The first 2 paragraphs worked out by that great legal brain that leads the Opposition in another place have been described by the Leader of the Country Party as a whole lot of rot. Do honourable members in the Country Party corner agree? 
What does possum paddock say about it now? Let us have a few words on it. Quite frankly, I admit that the most sensible paragraph is the third one, which I wrote myself. I admit that because that paragraph goes to the substance of the matter. It puts the Liberal and Country Parties on the line as betraying every principle of democratic government that we have ever heard of in this country. 
Some time in the future when we get some unscrupulous individual in charge of a State, somebody who uses the tactics of a Bjelke-Petersen, and the whole complexion of the Senate changes because of an air crash or some other accident, remember that it can be laid at the door of those who represent the National Country Party in this Parliament today and those who support the actions of the Queensland Premier. 
One significant absentee from this debate today is the supposed new Prime Minister of this country, the Honourable Malcolm Fraser. He is as silent as the grave. Even Billy Snedden stood up in the Parliament and looked at us. The present Leader of the Opposition is not even game to come into the debate on this issue. Where is this great leader, this great outspoken man and the new Australia he is going to lead us to? Like all Liberals he is scared stiff of the half baked collection masquerading as country members who go under the guise of the National Country Party in this Parliament I will give the National Country Party credit for one thing: A look from a National Country Party member scares the wits out of any Liberal here, in Queensland or anywhere else. I give Country Party members credit for that. Good luck to them. They must be fierce to look at because their performance is absolutely rotten, but still they have frightened heU out of the Liberals. The day the Country Party worries me wE be the day. 
I thought I would wind up the debate in the spirit in which the Leader of the National Country Party decided he would start. I remind him of the appointment of his own members, relatives and others. I remind him of the jobs for the boys under his government, and I remind him also that the government side of the Parliament will not accept Labor candidates selected by BjelkePetersen because we believe that people who represent the Labor Party ought to have nothing to do with individuals Uke him. We reject the amendment for the reason I have mentioned. It does not say: 'Selected and endorsed Labor candidate'. It does not say: 'Member of the Labor Party'. What it does say is that 
Queensland Will give to the Australian Parliament under the guise of a replacement a BjelkePetersen Labor candidate who has no place in the ranks of the Australian Labor Party. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be added  (Mr Anthony's amendment)  be added. 
I received a message in my office tonight that the office of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  had rung and said that if he was able to speak on the adjournment tonight it would be on a matter within my portfolio. Not being a mind reader or a clairvoyant I could not understand from a distance of a quarter of a mile what the honourable member for Bendigo was going to speak about. Consequently I answer him without any papers on the subject. I wondered why the honourable member who is generally quiet was so excited about this matter, but later I noticed that he had one or two very nice admirers in the gallery. No doubt he wanted to stimulate their interest in his type of speech which generally does not attract much attention. Therefore tonight I forgive him for the energy that he put into the speech, for the blood pressure he raised and for the bitter and personal attack he made on me. 
The many millions listening to me realise my value. The honourable member for Bendigo is behind in his homework. Had he read the Administrative Orders which are published regularly in the Australian Government  Gazette  he would have known that the matter he talked about was no longer under my control. For some time it has been in the portfolio of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  Consequently, if the honourable member wrote a letter to me today on this matter he has wasted 18c because it has gone to the wrong Minister. He wants to bring himself up to date on parliamentary activities. He is sitting here aU day as the Liberal Party Whip and has extra staff in his pay, yet he does not know what matters come within the portfolios of the Ministers to whom he writes. It is not for me to educate him so let him apply himself to the task for which he was elected. 
Let me bring him up to date. I handle the electoral affairs of this country as the Minister for Services and Property. In addition I handle the services provided to members, Ministers, office holders and others in that category, as well as the affairs of the Australian Fire Board and the Aus.tralian Purchasing Commission. In my spare time I act as Leader of House. So I have a reasonably full task from day to day without having to come in here to be bitterly attacked on the adjournment debate about a matter that is not within the confines of my portfolio. It is interesting to note that the honourable member has withdrawn from the chamber after the cowardly attack that he made on me. He probably knew at the time that it was a false charge. He would know that being a very sensitive person I would stay awake for a long time pondering over what he had said. I regret that he had to raise this matter, but I will discuss it with my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I suggest to the honourable member that he bring himself up to date with what is happening so that he will know where he stands. 
It is not amazing that a member of the Party which has led the band demanding a restriction of government expenditure is tonight clamouring for the spending of public funds on a government building in his electorate? He does not give a hang about the economy when he is involved. He wants the Government to spend more millions of dollars while his leader is crying every day about the huge amounts being allocated for government spending. Honourable members opposite never make up their minds. The situation is that the honourable member wants this expenditure, but at the same time he says that the Opposition could reduce the Budget deficit. The whole thing is contradictory. Had the honourable member told me in detail what he was going to talk about tonight I would have perhaps been more enlightening, despite the fact that the matter is not within my portfolio. I would have checked the matter as far as it went with me. I assure him that any further correspondence to me on this matter is just wasting very valuable postage, for the simple reason that the matter is no longer within my portfolio. 
I want to deal for a few minutes with the tears shed by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  He cried tonight about the poor Leader of the Opposition because he received only $50,000 out of the superphosphate bountythis struggling farmer on his $2m property who sits and thinks about low cost housing and the plight of the poor underprivileged. He gained only $50,000 from the superphosphate bounty and this dreadful Government is not going to continue his subsidy. Why, he has a farm as big as my electorate and it is worth millions of dollars, as honourable members know. Yet here is a member of the National Country Party crying because the bounty is not being given to him. How many more like the Leader of the Opposition collected $50,000 from that fund? There were many thousands of them. The real fault with the scheme was that the small farmers and others were not getting the benefits, that they were going to the wealthy people like the Leader of the Opposition. 
Why does the Leader of the Opposition not come into the Parliament and defend himself? What is the good of putting up second raters to defend him when he is under a great charge like this? Why does he not stand in the Parliament and say precisely whether he got the subsidy or whether he did not? If he was as charitable as he makes out and wanted to do for the poor people the things he says he wants to do he would not take this money; he would give it back. However, the situation is that the Country Party, the Leader of the Opposition and others- there are thousands of them in the same position as the Leader of the Opposition, wealthy and powerful men in the farming community- are raking it off in thousands at the expense of the small farmers and others. That is what the honourable member for Wimmera is defending in the Parliament tonight. The honourable member should not attack the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating);  let the Leader of the Opposition stand in this place and defend himself if he can. The fact is that he has no defence. He has the $5,000 a year from the superphosphate bounty and it is no good him trying to explain it away because he is the classic case of a person who should not benefit from this kind of bounty. Can we not weep tears of blood when we think of him sitting on the verandah on that million dollar property crying about losing the $5,000 subsidy? 
Where is it all going to end? By heavens, to think that honourable members could get up and defend this kind of conduct under the guise of seeking assistance for the farmers. It is difficult to understand. The honourable member for Wimmera says that he is another who wants to cut down expenditure. He says there is too much spending in the community, but this is not so where the cockies are concerned. The more the Goverment can give them the better, no matter who else goes broke. The honourable member is advocating increased expenditure at a time when he says government expenditure should be cut down. A report has been made on this matter and probably its recommendations will affect the Leader of the Opposition and a few others, but certainly I will not stay awake at night crying over the likes of the Frasers who have lost $50,000 when they can afford to pay that much into the bounty fund themselves. Instead of defending this kind of subsidy the honourable member for Wimmera should be shedding a few tears for the poor farmers- and there are many of them- and those such as the family farmers who really need assistance. They are the ones to be concerned about. 
The men controlling the Country Party work in Pitt Street in their business places. They live at Wahroonga, Rose Bay and Bellevue Hill. If we went through the Country Party members with a fine tooth comb I doubt whether we would find a farmer or grazier among them. At one time I went through them and found auctioneers and solicitors, but I could not find a farmer. The members of the Country Party in this House are distant from the farms and consequently have lost contact altogether with the poor farmer, the family farmer and the man who really needs assistance. I suggest to the honourable member for Wimmera that he should not stay awake at night crying over the Leader of the Opposition. He can afford a lot of $50,000s. I would be quite prepared to give that much away if I could sit on the verandah of that million dollar property looking at those lovely fields and thinking that the Government subsidises me in addition to what I make myself. There is no need to cry all night about such people. The honourable member should spend his time looking after the family farmer, the small farmer and the poor farmer, those to whom the superphosphate bounty should go. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 2S86 which appeared in Hansard, S June 1975, page 3545 
The election of senators to fill casual vacancies is covered by section 15 of the Constitution, as was explained in the House yesterday. Technically speaking, he would be eligible to take his place in the Senate immediately or as soon as he was sworn in. However, I think that the honourable member may have been referring in a round about way to the election yesterday in the Queensland Parliament of a person to fill a vacancy of the kind he mentioned. It is traditional for a representative of the same party to be elected to fill casual vacancies. 
May I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the Committee to consider the items of proposed expenditure in the order and grouping shown in the schedule which has been circulated to honourable members. The consideration of the items in groups of departments has met the convenience of the Committee in past years. I also take the opportunity to indicate to the House that the proposed order for consideration of the departmental Estimates has been discussed with the Opposition which has raised no objection to what has been proposed. The Schedule reads as follows: 
Parliament. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Department of the Special Minister of State (together). 
Department of the Treasury and Advance to the Treasurer (together). 
Attorney-General's Department, and Department of Police and Customs (together). 
Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Department of the Capital Territory. 
Department of Transport. 
Department of Agriculture. 
Department of Minerals and Energy. 
Department of Overseas Trade. 
Department of Manufacturing Industry. 
Department of Education. 
Department of Environment, and Department of Tourism and Recreation (together). 
Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Department of Health, Department of Repatriation and Compensation, and Department of Social Security (together). 
Department of Housing and Construction. 
Department of Services and Property. 
Department of Labor and Immigration. 
Department of Northern Australia. 
Department of Science and Consumer Affairs. 
Department of the Media. 
Postmaster-General's Department. 
Department of Defence. 
Department of Urban and Regional Development. 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask that the question be put forthwith. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Opposition Members or Senators who are currently Members of the Australian Parliament and who were provided with facilities by the Government, other than those provided for backbench members, during 1973 and 1974 are: 
I want to say a few words about the estimates for the Parliament. I appreciate the compliments that have been paid to me by the previous  speaker  and the generous remarks of other honourable members. I would say that, broadly speaking, parliamentarians are probably the hardest people in the world to satisfy. For reasons that I can never understand they continually write themselves down. A vast majority of parliamentarians, for instance, seem to think that they ought never to give themselves a salary rise although everybody else in the community takes one. This kind of weird reasoning makes it difficult sometimes for Parliament to work. They seem to think that by setting some kind of weird example, occasionally others will follow. They give no consideration to the justice of their claims to certain rights and certain conditions to which they are entitled by reason of the positions they occupy or to the lead they should give the community. Therefore, when I speak tonight on this matter I do so with the reservation that the vast majority of politicians is inclined to write themselves down and suffer accordingly in the eyes of the public. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  who has just spoken, mentioned the former  Speaker,  the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope).  The full responsibility for the incident involving the honourable member for Sydney lies mainly at the door of the Liberal and National Country Parties in this Parliament. By larrikin conduct they took advantage of an exceedingly kind man and endeavoured to destroy him and remove him from the Chair. The events of that day were caused entirely by their destructive tactics and full responsibility for what happened is theirs. It is interesting to note that those who cry out the most about it now were those who moved motions of no confidence in the former  Speaker  and dissent from his rulings. They must now have certain regrets about what occurred. It was a very unfortunate event in parliamentary history. 
But whatever might have happened, it has been capitalised on by those on the other side of this Parliament who have torn up the rule book in regard to parliamentary procedures. They did it in New South Wales over the filling of a Senate vacancy and also in Queensland a day or so ago. As I mentioned in this Parliament earlier, those who have torn up the rule book in regard to the filling of Senate vacancies cannot complain if in the industrial world in the future some people tear up the rule book and apply the same tactics to industry as honourable members opposite applied in regard to the Senate. Instead of giving an example of leadership and showing what should be done in the parliamentary sphere they have given by their method of filling Senate vacancies an inspiration to those who want to tear up the industrial rule book. They may well find that their example has been followed to their detriment and undoubtedly to the detriment of the vast majority of Australians. 
The honourable member spoke of gags and guillotines but he should remember when he quotes figures that the legislative program of this Government is about 3 times greater than that of the previous Government. Consequently to get this amount of legislation through the Parliament requires much more effective action than that taken previously. The record in this Parliament for the guillotine is 17 Bills in 19 hours and this is held by the previous Government. That was an unforgettable event which was described by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in a speech he made in Brisbane recently as one of the blackest days of democracy in this country. I respect the honourable member for Moreton. He is one of the really intelligent members of the Opposition parties. He is a shadow Minister- a man who knows and upholds the traditions of the Parliament. No matter how hard we tried we could not possibly equal that record. 
I do not regard it as wrong that Oppositions should try to hold up the procedures of Parliament. If an Opposition desired to do it it could turn the place into a real bear garden. It could obstruct, and by using every known device make it practically impossible for the Government to get its legislation passed. By all means the Opposition can do what it likes in that regard but it is no good it squealing when the Government hits back by using the procedures of the Parliament to bring about the termination of a debate through the use of the gag or the guillotine. The fact is that legislation must go through. If everybody on the opposite side of the House exercised his right to speak on every Bill we would not get one Bill passed a year. The procedures of the Parliament are available to both sides and as the position tries to obstruct so the Government try to have its legislation passed. Instead of complaining about the gag and the guillotine, I would suggest that honourable members opposite might negotiate more and in an objective and constructive way seek to put their point of view without unduly delaying what is undoubtedly most progressive legislation from this side of the Parliament 
Earlier tonight I was interested by the very constructive remarks of the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury).  He has continually given a great deal of attention to matters relating to the Parliament. I agree with him. There are a number of matters that he mentioned that might well receive the consideration of the Standing Orders Committee or even an all Party committee of this Parliament. I think the number required for a quorum in the Parliament should be reduced to about 20 or 25 with a precaution taken that the vote on certain measures should be a stipulated number or perhaps a majority of the Parliament. I think that in the House of Commons in Canada out of a Parliament of 254, the quorum required is about twenty-five. I said to one member there one day: 'Could you pass the Budget by thirteen to twelve?' He said: 'We could; but everyone who was not there would probably lose his seat at the next election '. 
In other words, an honourable member makes sure that he is there for the important votes. This can be done. Consequently, I am inclined to think after a long time in the Parliament that the calling of quorums, whilst it keeps the Government on its feet, is a bit of a childlike procedure in this day and age and might well be kept down to the very minimum particularly by certain members. Outside the Parliament many people possibly think that when an honourable member is not in the chamber he is walking around or having a beer. The fact of the matter is that he is probably busily engaged on legislation or parliamentary or electorate affairs. So a false impression is created sometimes by the calling of quorums. These are things that we might well consider in the broad context when we are considering matters associated with Parliament. 
Like other honourable members, I would like to see adequate time given to debate. That is impossible, though, in a Parliament of 127 members with Standing Orders that were instituted for 75 members to fit procedures that apply in the House of Commons. I agree with the previous  speaker  that to have committee meetings when Parliament is meeting makes it impossible for this Parliament to function effectively. Whilst we debate the Budget and the Estimates in Committee of the Whole House, it does not lend itself to what could be called expeditious treatment of these affairs. In the House of Commons recently I happened to attend some committee meetings where honourable members sat in committee rooms on certain issues with a Minister present giving answers and accepting amendments. The matters in hand were all settled. These are procedures which the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System is at present investigating. 
I would support that kind of procedure. Undoubtedly it must come about if we are to have what could be called 'opportunity to debate'. In this debate I think that every honourable member may speak for 10 minutes twice probably on practically everything. 
I will not hold up the Committee. But if everyone were to exercise that right, there is not one member of this Parliament who would be here with the  Speaker  when the Parliament rises about Christmas time this year. These are things which the Parliament will have to face up to in the not far distant future. The honourable member for Ryan also mentioned a number of other matters connected with the Standing Orders and committee meetings. These are matters which will have to receive consideration. I do not say that members are guilty of being absent because the fact is they are usually engaged on committee meetings when they ought to be in the Parliament. But the only effective way to learn the procedures of the Parliament, as honourable members know, is to be in it continually and, by breaking the rules, they will know when they are going well the next time around. I mention these matters because I appreciate what has been said. 
The matter of question time has been raised. One cannot blame the Government or the Opposition in this regard. The fact of the matter is that if one asks a long question it will bring a long answer. 
If an honourable member asks a short question he might get an answer like that given by  Sir John  McEwen on one occasion. I think it took him 37 minutes to answer a short question. In other words, it is up to the Ministers and others. These are things that might well be considered by some form of committee. The fact is that the time of the Parliament as it is constituted under the Standing Orders does not lend itself to the extensive debate that we might wish to have. 
I agree with honourable members that the 1 1 o'clock closing time is a good one. But I would like to see an experiment whereby the Parliament would sit, say, from mid-day to 8 o'clock at night or maybe from mid-day to 6 o'clock at night. We could probably have other meetings that might be wanted at night. I think there is a lot to be said for some form of committee deciding on a change in the sitting hours. We could possibly do as other Parliaments do and sit right through the lunch hour or the dinner time with a neutral period like a 6-day bike race when no divisions are called and a vote could be taken at a later time. I think these things will have to be considered by the Parliament. It takes us practically from 10 o'clock in the morning until 11 o'clock at night to fit in what could possibly be dealt with between mid-day and 8 o'clock at night. It would be to our mutual benefit if we could get common agreement on these questions. 
I would like to see an experiment conducted before we actually committed ourselves to sitting those hours. Perhaps they could be observed 1 day a week. Of course the trouble in Australia is that everybody eats between about 6 o'clock and 6.30 at night. There are problems in that respect and there are problems with the broadcasting of Parliament,  Hansard,  the Clerks and others. But I think we ought to see whether we can get some form of agreement on these matters and by sitting 2 or 3 days a week- even Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday- allow members more time in their electorates. Whatever side of politics one is on, one cannot neglect the base from which one comes. I think these are matters which we might well discuss. The Standing Orders Committee might well have a good look at this situation in the immediate future. By a change in hours and a change in methods, particularly in the committee system and the hours of committee sittings, I think we could improve generally all round the workings of this Parliament. 
With regard to the accommodation in the Parliament, the less said the better. It must be the worst equipped Parliament anywhere in the world, including some of the developing countries. Unless we can get concertina walls on the Parliament, there is no chance of any extension to it. What will be done I do not know but I see private members working in the poor conditions that were mentioned by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  earlier tonight with 2 or 3 members to a room. The opportunity to interview constituents who come to Parliament House is very limited. This applies to private members. Ministers and office holders are much worse off. I think that the best thing that could be done at a time of high unemployment would be to start building a new Parliament House because it would not be finished for many years. It is a very necessary thing to be done. If things continue as they are now, it may be necessary even to move out of this building and take over some other building and house the Parliament in it whilst a new Parliament House is being built. This situation cannot go on much longer. 
In another place, senators have asked for 2 rooms each within the precincts of this Parliament for themselves and staff. I do not object to that; it is a reasonable proposition but there is no chance of getting it. Every private member knows that his chances of getting a room to himself and the proper faculties, unless he is very fortunate, are practically non-existent. These are matters which honourable members have to face up to. They are terribly important. I do not think the public outside realises the conditions that exist within the confines of the Parliament. Most of them see only this chamber, Kings Hall and the appointments that are available to the public. But behind the scenes it is a cramped place where people just cannot carry on effectively the work that they should do. 
In any case, I am grateful to honourable members for what have been very constructive suggestions in regard to the Parliament. I hope that possibly arising out of a debate such as this something can be done, first of all, to overhaul the Standing Orders; to see whether something cannot immediately be done in regard to the sitting hours and matters of that nature; to see whether our facilities could not possibly be improved; and to make this a better building to work in so as to allow honourable members to carry out more effectively the duties which they were sent here to perform. Without being egotistical in any way, I think every honourable member should regard himself as being on the board of directors of the Commonwealth of Australia. That is a tremendous task and honourable members are entitled to proper facilities, proper incomes and all that goes with the job. But if honourable members write themselves down and do not apply themselves to these matters, they will go on as they are now indefinitely. Everybody has been talking about a new Parliament House and facilities as long as I can remember. It is nearly time that in some way from both sides of the Parliament we did something effective to remedy the situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer the honourable member to my reply to House of Representatives Question No. 2682  (Hansard  27 August 1975, page 674) 
Financial Assistance by Department of Northern Australia  (Question No. 2770) 

 - Mr Chairman, I suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 4 September be varied by postponing the consideration of the proposed expenditures for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of the Special Minister of State. 
Department  of  the Treasury 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 57,88 1 ,000. 
Advance to the Treasurer 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 50,000,000 
I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in South Australia having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by this House on 21 May 1975. An identical Bill was introduced into this House on 29 May 1975 and passed the same day. It was introduced into and rejected by the Senate on 10 June 1975. As honourable members are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of South Australia was laid before both Houses of the Parliament on 1 5 April 1 975, pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners pursuant to sections 18A and 21 of that Act. The motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by this House on 21 May 1975, but was negated by the Senate on the following day. 
The Electoral Re-distribution (South Australia) Bill is one of 5 Bills designed to implement the Distribution Commissioners' proposed electoral divisions for South Australia, Tasmania, Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales. These Bills are necessary because of the uncompromising attitude adopted by the Opposition Parties in the Senate towards the redistribution proposals for each of the 5 States concerned. The Government believes that the effecting of these re-distributions has become a matter of urgent necessity in order to provide equality of representation for every elector. The Government is not prepared to wait until 1977 or 1978 to effect a re-distribution, even supposing that future Distribution Commissioners could produce proposals which would please both the National Country Party and the Liberal Party. For the information of honourable members, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a statement showing the enrolment as at 29 August 1975, for each electoral division in South Australia 
-I move: That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in Tasmania having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by this House on 2 1 May 1 975. An identical Bill was introduced into and passed by this House on 29 
May 1975, and was introduced into and refused a second reading by the Senate on 10 June 1975. As honourable members are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Tasmania was laid before both Houses on 17 April 1975, pursuant to section 23  a  of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners in accordance with sections 18a and 21 of that Act. A motion for the approval of the proposed redistribution was passed by this House on 2 1 May 1975, but was negated by the Senate on the following day. For the information of honourable members, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a statement showing the enrolment as at 29 August 1975 for each electoral division in Tasmania. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This BUI is designed to implement the electoral divisions in Queensland having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by this House on 22 May 1975. An identical Bill was introduced into and passed by this House on 29 May 1975. It was introduced into the Senate on 10 June 1975 and denied a second reading on the same day. 
As honourable members are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Queensland was laid before both Houses on 17 April 1975, pursuant to section 23 A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners in accordance with sections 18A and 21 of that Act. A motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by this House on 22 May 1975, but was negated by the Senate on 27 May 1975. For the information of honourable members, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a statement showing the enrolment as at 29 August 1975, for each electoral division in Queensland. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in Victoria having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by this House on 22 May 1975. An identical Bill was introduced into and passed by this House on 29 May 1975. It was introduced into the Senate on 10 June 1975 and refused a second reading by that chamber on the same day. 
As honourable members are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of Victoria was laid before this House on 13 May 1975 and before the Senate on the following day, pursuant to section 23A of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners pursuant to sections 18A and 21 of that Act. A motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by this House on 22 May 1975, but was negated by the Senate on 27 May 1975. For the information of honourable members, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a statement showing the enrolment as at 29 August 1 975, for each electoral division in Victoria. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to implement the electoral divisions in New South Wales having the names and boundaries approved in respect of that State by this House on 22 May 1975. An identical Bill was introduced into and passed by this House on 29 May 1975. It was introduced into and refused a second reading by the Senate on 10 June 1975. 
As honourable members are aware, the report by the Distribution Commissioners for the State of New South Wales was laid before this House on 13 May 1975 and before the Senate on the following day, pursuant to section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973, together with suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners pursuant to sections 18a and 21 of that Act. A motion for the approval of the redistribution proposed in that report was passed by this House on 22 May 1975 but was negated by the Senate on 27 May 1975. For the information of honourable members, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a statement showing the enrolment as at 29 August 1975, for each electoral division in New South Wales. 
I can say only that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  must be an extremely patient man because he is going to wait until the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  is in office to solve the problems he was speaking about. May I wish him success if he lives long enough to reach that far distant time. I would imagine that the prospective Minister will be in his dotage by then, and what the honourable member for Lilley is asking for today will be long forgotten. And the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  who is interjecting, will have disappeared in the limbo of oncers in this Parliament. I congratulate the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  on the job that he has done in his portfolio, particularly in relation to aircraft, aerodromes and matters associated with the aircraft section of his Department. No Minister has done more in our time in this Parliament than this Minister to relieve the suffering and distress caused to people by the noise of aircraft flying over residential areas. 
I put aside the criticism that the honourable member for Lilley offered because evidently he was not raising these complaints during the time of previous transport Ministers, otherwise he would know that they not only did not listen but also gave no thought to the complaints. I deal particularly with the question of KingsfordSmith Airport. It is on the border of my constituency and the people in my electoral division are the ones who suffer from aircraft noise possibly more than any others, with the exception of those in the St George electorate and possibly the Barton electorate. The Minister is responsible for taking the Concorde aircraft away from Sydney and seeing that it lands in other places and does not fly over those residential areas. No Minister has paid more attention to seeing that the curfew at Sydney's Kingsford-Smith Airport is obeyed so that jets are kept down at night. We know that 3 weeks before each election the previous Liberal-Country Party Government flew planes over safe Labor seats to win borderline voters in seats such as St George. We know also that if the Opposition were in government now it would direct pilots to fly over every borderline Labor seat once again. It has been done again and again in the past. 
The Minister for Transport has stopped all this and has regulated the flying of aircraft at late hours of the night so that people would not be kept awake.  Mr Lewis  has complained about the Minister taking tourism away from New South Wales by directing the Concorde and other international flights to Melbourne. Let me tell the House why the Minister did it. He did it because  Mr Lewis  did not do what he should have done, that is name the place where the new airport should be. Every person who lives in the electorates of St George, Barton, Grayndler, KingsfordSmith and in electorates around them should realise that if Liberals were elected to both Federal and State Governments they would extend Kingsford-Smith aerodrome and cause the children in schools and the people in homes for the aged to suffer unlimited agony. I warn the people in those electorates that a vote for a Liberal candidate, whether State or Federal, means the extension of Kingsford-Smith Airport and thus the keeping of people awake at night in that area. It will make the aged and the ill suffer, stop churches from conducting their services and interfere with schools. Let honourable members opposite stand up and say that they would not extend Kingsford-Smith Airport. 
The Minister for Transport said to  Mr Lewis:  'If you will not name where an airport ought to be then Melbourne, the international airport, can take international aircraft and save Sydney people from suffering'. I pay a tribute to him for doing that. Why does the Liberal Government in New South Wales not tell us where it wants the airport? Why does it not name a site? It will not name a site because it wants to extend Kingsford-Smith Airport. It does not care what happens to the people on the fringe and the borders of those areas. Everybody knows that nothing was done about aircraft noise until the present Minister came to office. I have heard talk about extending runways at Kingsford-Smith Airport. Only over my dead body will runways be extended at Kingsford-Smith Airport. I know that would be the view of the Minister too, because we are committed not to extend them. 
I am reasonably healthy too. Furthermore, there is no intention to extend Kingsford-Smith Airport. That assurance was given some time ago in this Parliament and other places. I challenge honourable members opposite to say that they support its extension. Let them deny that they were responsible for aircraft being flown over electorates represented by Labor members in the last 3 weeks prior to the 1 972 election to save seats held by Liberal candidates in other areas. But the people were intelligent. They elected Labor candidates instead because they said: 'They will keep down the number of jets at night and will not keep the people awake'. 
I rose in order that honourable members might know the job that the Minister has done in respect of aircraft noise and aircraft landings and the efforts he has made to see that the people of the Sydney area do not suffer but that the international airport at Melbourne receives the aircraft it can, in that way avoiding suffering on the part of people in Sydney. I heard the former honourable member for Bradfield say that if an aircraft flies low over a dairy farm all the cockies go crook because the cows give up producing milk and the hens do not lay. Yet people could stay awake at night in the Sydney areas because Liberal governments in the past would not do anything in regard to the extension of airports. For 23 years the Liberal and Country Parties were in office and they never even suggested a new airport. Land could have been bought for a song in many areas. They had not one idea. 
The former Minister for Transport never mentioned a new airport anywhere throughout Australia during the time he was Minister. Now honourable members opposite are telling the present Minister for Transport that he has not done a commendable job. This Parliament is fortunate in having such a gifted Minister to look after these matters. It is fortunate in having such a dedicated Minister who feels as though it were over his own home that the aircraft are flying low. He understands the suffering of people around the airports caused by aircraft that have been flown by many international companies merely for profit, irrespective of what happens to the people. 
I say to the people, particularly those who live in the State and Federal electorates around Kingsford-Smith Airport, that while ever Jones is Minister for Transport they Will sleep peace.fully at night knowing full well that he Will stand by them and see that the aircraft operators do not manipulate flights to keep people awake and profit at the expense and welfare of the people. I congratulate the Minister. I am not prone to bestowing praise on many people, but I think he is well deserving of it. Not only has he taken a progressive approach to transport generally, but on the land, at sea and in the air he stands out as a beacon of leadership in this field. Therefore today I thank him for what has been done in respect of Kingsford-Smith Airport. I thank him also for directing to other States those aircraft that would interfere with the welfare of people in my electorate and other electorates. I think I can give his assurance as well as mine that whilever he is Minister he Will see that the people's interests are protected, in contrast to what people like the honourable member for Lilley- a future Minister for Transport in the far distant timemight do, and that is put profits before the welfare of people. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Votes and Proceedings of the House of Representatives issued daily from which this information is readily available. 
Answers to Questions on Notice (Question No. 1295) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought is very detailed and the necessary statistics are not readily available. I refer the honourable member to the Notice Paper and the Hansards for the period. 
Parliamentary Procedures and Answers to Questions on Notice (Question No. 2660) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my reply to Questions Nos 1294 and 1295. 
Financial Assistance by the Department of Minerals and Energy (Question No. 2677) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member is presented in the attached Schedule, showing names of polling places abolished since the May 1974 elections. 
There is no restriction on the amount of money that can be collected by political parties or individuals for use in election campaigns. There is, however, a limit on expenditure by individuals with respect to elections. Very few members of this house or another place ever obey the law in this regard and attempts to alter that law have been opposed by those opposite, who are the major spenders of political- funds. Evidence indicates that our political opponents are raising campaign funds in huge amounts. I understand that the National Country Party in Queensland has just raised $lm from people-So the $25,000 the enemy got last time per se'at in Queensland might increase to $50,000 next time. The Liberal Party is holding $50 a head dinners all over the country. Fancy people going to them! The Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Moreton are writing for the Press. As they do not do it for nothing it must be for campaign funds. I have here a letter from the Office of the Central Finance Branch of the Liberal Party of Australia, dated 28 July. It is attached to a letter written by one, Malcolm Fraser.  His  letter states: 
As you know, we in the Federal Parliamentary Party rely entirely on the State Divisions to maintain the lighting strength of the organisation, particularly in the key marginal seats. 
The enclosed letter says: 
But elections are not won solely on election day - they are won by constant campaigning. 'You cannot fatten a pig on market day'. 
Then it says: 
Malcolm Fraser has impressed upon us the importance of our organisational task in the enclosed copy of letter to Liberal State President John Atwill. 
To be realistic, therefore, we are asking you if you could subscribe to the extent of $10 per employee towards our fighting fund. 
Yes. There are 6 million employees in Australia so it means in effect that if this $10 per employee is paid, $60m will go into the Liberal-National Country Party funds and that represents half a million dollars per electorate. Yet they can spend only $500 legally. One asks for a lot of things in life and one gets a lot of knockbacks. That is how the Liberals are going. But they have a few victories now and again. So if they only get 10 per cent of that amount they will get $6m. These men that they are appealing to to give $10 per employee go into the Arbitration Court every day of the week and oppose every rise and every request for wages. The best thing they could do with this $10 would be to give it to the Labor Party where they know they will get justice and equity and good legislation. 
I thank the honourable member for a quite unexpected question. I just want to say this to him: No wonder those opposite opposed the legislation for the disclosure of funds. No wonder they did not want us to know the donors of the $60m they are trying to get. No wonder they did not want us to know where' the National Country Party will get $50,000 per member per electorate in Queensland at the next election. The honourable member knows full well there is no restriction on the amount one can raise. There should be. The Labor Party brought in legislation to impose a restriction. Today we see the reason why the Liberal and National Country Parties will not support such legislation in this Parliament. It is because they have too many skeletons in their cupboard which they are now trying to cover up with another $6m or $10. 
I do not mind. Which one? 
I move: 
That, in relation to the proceedings on the following Bills, so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Mouse making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of all the Bills: 
Electoral Re-distribution (South Australia) Bill 1975 [No. 2] 
Electoral Re-distribution (Tasmania) Bill 1975 [No. 2] Electoral Re-distribution (Queensland) Bill 1975 [No. 2] Electoral Re-distribution (Victoria) Bill 1975 [No. 2] Electoral Re-distribution (New South Wales) Bill 1975 [No. 2]. 
I do not wish to delay the debate that will take place on these Bills by making a lengthy speech at this stage. I mention briefly that this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders to discuss these Bills is being moved because of the urgent nature of the proposed legislation. One thing that is necessary in this country is to correct the electoral injustice existing under present electoral boundaries in all States of Australia, in many cases State and Federal boundaries. Consequently, this legislation and these proposals have been drawn up by Distribution Commissioners whose integrity has not been challenged. The redistributions have been described as the fairest ever presented to an Australian parliament. We believe in the interests of democracy in this country that they should be given effect by law. Today we are bringing forward the Bills on the second occasion in this Parliament in order that honourable members might vote on the principle of one vote one value, which today I understand will be introduced by way of similar legislation into the South Australian Parliament. That legislation will pass through that Parliament because there are people there, even some opposed to Labor, who believe in electoral justice. Therefore, this legislation is extremely important. 
The legislation- I make only passing reference to it- is designed to prevent the type of situation that has occurred in Queensland. In that State there is a Premier whose party receives about 20 per cent of the votes. In Western Australia, a gerrymander is in the process of being drawn up at the behest of the Liberal-National Country Party Government. In that case, the Parliament itself has drawn the boundaries and will not reveal the sources or the names of those who have drawn up the boundaries. This legislation is designed to prevent that state of affairs. For that and other reasons the legislation is very important. 
To stress again how important it is for Australia to have an equitable voting and electoral system, let me cite what happened at the 1974 House of Representatives election. The average enrolment of 66 seats - 
I declare that the following Bills are urgent Bills: 
Electoral Re-distribution (South Australia) Bill 197S [No. 2]. 
Electoral Re-distribution (Tasmania) Bill 1975[No. 2]. 
Electoral Re-distribution (Queensland) Bill 1975[No. 2]. 
Electoral Re-distribution (Victoria) Bill 1975 [No. 2]. 
Electoral Re-distribution (New South Wales) Bill 1975 [No. 2]. 
Question put: 
That the Bills be considered urgent Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Allotment of Time 

That the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
Electoral Re-distribution (South Australia) Bill 1975 [No. 2]- 
a) For the second reading, until 3.00 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 3.10 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 3.20 p.m. this day. 
Electoral Re-distribution (Tasmania) Bill 1975 [No. 2]- 
a) For the second reading, until 3.30 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 3.40 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 3.50 p.m. this day. 
Electoral Re-distribution (Queensland) Bill 1975 [No. 2]- 
a) For the second reading, until 4.00 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 4. 10 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 4.20 p.m. this day. 
Electoral Re-distribution (Victoria) Bill 1975 [No. 2]- 
a) For the second reading, until 4.30 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 4.40 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 4.50 p.m. this day. 
Electoral Re-distribution (New South Wales) Bill 1975 [No. 2]- 
For the second reading, until 5.00 p.m. this day. 
For the committee stage, until 5. 10 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 5.20 p.m. this day. 
These Bills have been declared urgent because in our view they have been adequately debated on several occasions by the House and the Senate. The reports of the Distribution Commissioners regarding South Australia were tabled in this House on 15 April 1975; regarding Queensland and Tasmania on 17 April 1975; and regarding New South Wales and Victoria on 13 May 1975. Motions for the approval of the redistributions in Tasmania and in South Australia were debated and passed by the House of Representatives on 21 May 1975 and on 22 May 1975 for New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. Motions were debated in the Senate but defeated on 22 May 1975 on redistributions in South Australia and Tasmania, and on 27 May 1975 for New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. Separate Bills for each State were presented to the House on 28 May 1975 and were debated and passed by the House on 29 May 1975. The redistribution Bills were presented to the Senate on 3 June 1975 but were debated on 10 June 1975. 
Adequate time has been spent debating these measures. A total of 17 hours 18 minutes has been spent debating the redistribution reports and Bills. The debate on the motion for the approval of the redistributions occupied 8 hours 16 minutes in the House of Representatives and 4 hours 43 minutes in the Senate. The redistribution Bills were debated for 3 hours 29 minutes in the House of Representatives and in the Senate for 50 minutes, which proves there has been ample time for discussion on these measures and all honourable members are conversant with their details. In addition, the Opposition Parties are determined to oppose the redistribution proposals no matter how long the debate may continue, even though to correct injustices and inequities there are certain changes necessary in the system. In other words, a redistribution is urgently required because of the demands of democracy in this country. 
I do not intend to go over the full range of the disparities that exist in electorates but honourable member know that in some States some electorates are twice the size of others and thereby give disproportionate representation in every possible way. I might also mention that the proposed time allotment on these Bills will give adequate time for honourable members to express again, if they will, the comments they have made on previous occasions. There can be no purpose in delaying these measures for an unlimited time to allow a filibuster by honourable members opposite who are determined to stop the legislation irrespective of the justice of it all. I repeat that a total of almost 1 8 hours has already been spent in debating these measures and the proposed allotment of time should be adequate to allow further discussion on these measures. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Electoral Re-distribution (Tasmania) Bill, the Electoral Re-distribution (Queensland) BUI, the Electoral Re-distribution (Victoria) Bill and the Electoral Re-distribution (New South Wales) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 5 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
I wish to comment briefly on what has been said in regard to the Bills we are discussing. I was particularly interested in the attitude of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin 
Cairns). As a Queenslander he would be an expert in gerrymandered boundaries. He would not be an expert from the inside as such because the Liberal Party in Queensland is an extremely silly and docile organisation. Members of the Liberal Party are partners in a coalition government, the other member of which, with 19 per cent of the votes, has taken over complete control of the State. The Liberal Party is done like a dinner and does not realise it. The fact of the matter is that the Labor Party in Queensland, under the gerrymander that the honourable member supports, gets more votes than the other 2 parties put together but gets fewer seats. Consequently the honourable member is not exactly an expert on this matter. 
This redistribution has been described quite rightly as one of the fairest ever presented to an Australian Parliament. That view is supported by none other than the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who has voted with the Government on 2 occasions. He was proudly nominated by  Mr McEwen  as one Prime Minister the Country Party would serve under in this Parliament. He led the now Opposition as Prime Minister. Do honourable members opposite say that he would support rigged boundaries? Do they tell me that a former Liberal Prime Minister would do that? Do they think he would support a partial redistribution? As he sat here today- I could see the look on his face- I knew he was sorry that he ever had occasion to lead the collection of members who sit opposite, knowing their lack of integrity on electoral boundaries. One only has to mention electoral boundaries and everybody from the leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  right down nearly goes into hysterics and has a heart attack. 
Honourable members will notice today how members of the Country Party spy on their Liberal colleagues. Members of the Country Party have hardly left the House today. The name of every Liberal member who has come into the chamber is in a black book. They say that the Liberal members are not with them in spirit; they have come in only to get marked off on the roster. Have a look around. You could fire a shotgun and not hit a Liberal. They are not game to come in on this issue. The survival of the Country Party depends exclusively on rigged and gerrymandered boundaries and on loaded electorates. Let us have a look at the situation. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  nearly went into hysterics when some changes were made in the boundaries of his electorate. I have not heard him cry his eyes out over the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  who represents one million square miles and who does it magnificently without complaint and to the applause of his electors. 
The Country Party does not realise that the Labor Party is the largest country party in the Parliament. We have more country members than the Country Party in the Parliament. We hold more country seats than the Country Party. The largest seats in area are represented by men from this side of the Parliament who consistently espouse the policy we are putting forward of one vote one value in the community. Everybody knows that when there is one vote one value intelligent people, unless they are rigged, would not vote for the collection which is supposed to represent the country people in this Parliament. We know that a fair distribution will mean good representatives for country areas. It is interesting to note some of the changes that have been made and why the Country Party always clings to its policy on electoral reform. Members of the Country Party will not even let us know where their funds are coming from to buy their illgotten gains in this Parliament. They will not even let us know where the $25,000 they each got during the last election in Queensland came from. 
Well, they held out on you. They reckoned they would be wasting their money but you bobbed up all the same. In this Parliament no fewer than 52 electorates of the 109 electorates in the four most heavily populated States vary from the quota at this stage by 10 per cent. Today Mitchell in Sydney has 83 941 electors and Darling 46 975, a difference of 36 966 electors. Diamond Valley has 87 522 and Wimmera 49 200, a difference of 36 322. McPherson has 94 024 electors and Maranoa 46 456. So the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  is only half as good as a Liberal. By gee, that must insult a Country Party man. He represents 47 568 fewer electors in an area twice as big. Bonython has 83 388 electors and Wakefield has 49 56 1 , a difference of 33 827. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  asked a few minutes ago, what will be the position in a year or two? Democracy will be unknown. The Country Party is opposed to the principle of one vote one value. It does not want equality of representation. 
The answer to the problems of representing a country electorate is not having loaded electorates but giving country members adequate transport and travel facilites and all the things that go with representation. I must say that 
Country Party representatives in this Parliament for years did nothing even to give themselves benefits, let alone give them to others. Undoubtedly the Country Party's survival depends on an unjust and distorted system. Without a doubt not 10 per cent of the Country Party members I am looking at opposite me today would be returned to this Parliament under a fair and just electoral system. I do not say that the country would suffer. A few Liberals and a few Labor members would win these seats and the people would have good representation. 
It is no wonder the members of the Country Party want the present system to continue. In 1 972 they got 9 per cent of the votes and they got 16 per cent of the power in this Parliament. Who among them would not want that system? Who would not want a system that helps an honourable member such as the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)?  He got 17 per cent of the primary vote and he was elected to this Parliament under the present system. No wonder he would want that kind of system to continue. Even that nitwit Field in another place would think it was better than the way he got into Parliament. The average enrolment of the 66 seats won by the Australian Labor Party in the 1974 elections was 63 000, the average enrolment of the 40 seats won by the Liberals was 64 000, and the average enrolment of the 21 seats won by the Country Party was 54 000. 
Why would members of the Country Party not fight to the death for the present system? Why would they not spy on their colleagues today to see who is going under their neck? Why would they not pull the strings in another place? As the honourable member for Port Adelaide said, they have torn up the rule book, conventions and the democratic principles of this country. They should not complain if unionists follow the infamous example they are setting them at this level if they reject this legislation in another place. Their action at this level is typical of what they are bringing on this nation at every level. 
Today no sound argument has been advanced against these proposals. In Western Australia today the Liberal-Country Party Government has produced 24 electorates the boundaries of which were drawn up by the Parliament. I understand that the Minister for Justice presented a report to the Parliament, but members of the Opposition cannot find out who drew the boundaries. There are 24 electorates, but members of the Opposition cannot find out who drew the boundaries. The Government will not tell them. This is the system that honourable members opposite want. In Western Australia under a 
Liberal-Country Party Government there is being introduced today legislation which will allow for up to a fifteen to one variation in electorates in the Legislative Assembly. In Western Australia under the system that honourable members opposite support there have been 38 elections for the Legislative Council and the Liberal and Country parties have won the lot. What a remarkable coincidence under a democratic voting system. The wins are not accidents. That is the kind of system that honourable members of the Country Party want to force on this countryloaded, rigged and gerrymandered boundaries all designed to keep in power a party which cannot get a majority of the votes and which represents less than 10 per cent of the Australian people. 
To their eternal discredit, the Liberals are hiding today. They have sent into the chamber one of their lightweights to put their case. He shows a fair academic knowledge of the situation, but when one has said that one has said the lot. Today  Mr Fraser-  the prospective Prime Minister, the Liberals call him- is hiding. In all these debates he has never been known to speak on this issue. We could not even get the former leader- I am nearly tired out from thinking who the former leaders of the Liberal Party have been-  Mr Snedden,  to speak. We did not see that brilliantly dressed Chamber of Commerce man,  Mr Lynch,  come into the chamber to defend the Liberal Party's attitude on this matter. The Liberals are frightened of the Country Party. I do not know why they would be frightened of the Country Party because members of the Country Party have nowhere else to go but to the Liberal Party, because nobody on earth but the Liberals would have them. 
In respect of these matters we would like to know today why the Liberal Party will not fight vigorously against the proposed new boundaries. Why do they not sent in their topweights if they are fair dinkum? What we would like to know is why honourable members opposite think they cannot win the votes of the Australian people and repose to a fair and just electoral system in this country. All these proposals mean is what has been said in their support by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and by that Liberal,  Senator Steele  Hall, in another place. Thank God there is one left there. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
I would like to reply briefly to the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  is on record as saying that he supports the proposals of the Government with respect to electoral redistribution. If any proof of that is wanted it can easily be obtained. I want to refer to the Queensland situation because it appears that there is not internal harmony there even in regard to State redistributions. I have here the Hansard for 1971 when a redistribution took place in Queensland. I mentioned in the House at that time that in Queensland the Liberal and Country parties were torn asunder and were at each other's throats because of the Country Party's proposal to perpetuate the greatest gerrymander of all time on the Queensland people. At that time 8 Liberal members crossed the floor and defeated the proposals. A compromise had to be reached and the number of seats was increased. 
This is what was reported at the time: 
There was uproar as the House divided.  Mr Hinze  (Country Party, Gold Coast) had to be restrained by Government members as he rose from his seat, waved his arms angrily and shouted at the 8 rebel Liberals. He shouted 'Mongrels, mongrels' and would not sit beside  Mr Miller  (Liberal) when  Mr Miller  returned to the Government benches. 
Even in this Parliament a short time later the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who was the Minister for the Army at that time, spoke of the Liberals who crossed the floor in these terms: He said that traitors walked across the floor - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
I wish to make a few comments at this stage on what was said by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  He was formerly Minister in charge of the department dealing with electoral redistribution and consequently he has a knowledge of a matter that probably is not available to other members. I notice that he offered no criticism of the Distribution Commisioners, their appointment or their integrity generally. No criticism has been levelled at them either inside or outside this Parliament in respect of their appointment, so it must be understood that all accept the integrity of those concerned. Therefore to challenge these boundaries on the basis that the Commissioners are partial will hardly bear substance in the light of the general support for the Commissioners appointed. 
The significant point about this- and this is where the whole case of the member for Gwydir collapses- is that even before the boundaries were announced or had been decided the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said: 'The Opposition will oppose them to a man'. In other words, the honourable member was not prepared even to look at the boundaries. Today I heard criticism as to why they were not referred back to the Commissioners. Why would they be referred back when the Leader of the National Country Party has said that under no circumstances would they be accepted at all. Despite what the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  said, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has never spoken in this Parliament on these Bills. 
He has made speeches outside, no doubt, but not in this Parliament. It is interersting to note that nobody doubts the principle involved. An article which appeared in the  Age  of Thursday, 22 May, under the heading 'Liberals opt for electoral folly ' stated: 
In determining their attitude to the proposed redistribution of Federal electoral boundaries, members of the Parliamentary Liberal Party had the option of adopting two approaches. They could have asked themselves: is this redistribution fair and equitable and in accordance with democratic principle? To which the honest answer would have been- Yes! Or they could have pondered: does this redistribution serve our long-term political interests? In which case the wise answer would also have been Yes! The Liberals made a decision which was neither honest nor wise: they decided to oppose the redistribution. In doing so, they opted for a marginal short-term political advantage and for mockery of electoral justice. The main beneficiary of this aberration will be neither the Liberal Party nor the people of Australia, but the National Country  Party. 
The  Age  said that, which proves that people all over this country have given the National Country Party away so far as electoral justice is concerned but they expected better from the Liberal Party and its high-sounding principles. That paper supports their views. A former leader and Prime Minister of this country, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  has voted in this Parliament in support of these proposals. In another place  Senator Steele  Hall, who is not a member of this Party and a long way from it, has said that this is electoral justice and if anything favoured the Liberal Party in the States. In addition to that,  Mr Mackerras,  the darling of the Liberal Party, said that they are the fairest boundaries ever presented to an Australian Parliament and consequently the reasons for opposing them today are difficult to follow. It is said that we are opposed to country representation, that we seek to reduce it. We on this side of the Parliament believe, as do all democrats, that the value of a man's vote should not depend on where he lives. We believe Australians are equal everywhere. 
As the honourable member knows, that it constitutionally a totally false argument to put forward because Tasmania must have a minimum of 5 seats under the Constitution irrespective of the numbers that live there. Therefore that comparison does not hold water. In addition the Labor Party believes that people everywhere are equal in respect of their votes and the domicile of a person should not give him twice, three times or fifteen times the voting power- as is the case in Western Australia under a Liberal-Country Party Government- of another man who lives in the city. Honourable members opposite say they represent people. The Labor Party believes that members of this Parliament represent people and not trees, haystacks, acres or things of that nature. Therefore the size of electorates should be determined on the number of people. Consequently we are endeavouring to give electoral justice by seeing that members of this Parliament do represent people. 
It is no good saying that we have not a mandate for this legislation. We fought two elections on it and it has been carried by the joint sitting of this Parliament; that cannot be denied. How many more times must persons on this side of the House bring to this Parliament the question of one vote one value and be told that there is no mandate for it? The Country Party is opposed not only to this legislation but also to every semblance of electoral reform, even to a draw for positions on the ballot paper which members of the Country Party say is designed to ensure and enshrine a Labor Government in office for ever. Did honourable members ever hear anything so silly? Even  Mr Lewis  in New South Wales, who our forefathers never realised would be leading a State, has even brought this proposal forward. There are other matters, including the disclosure of funds. I will not go over them all. It does not matter whether we are considering electoral boundaries or the way names appear on a ballot paper, the Country Party is opposed to it and the Liberal Party tags along. 
We heard the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  speak of the great things the Country Party is doing in regard to electoral matters. In all the time I have been in the Parliament the Country Party brought in one Bill which did not attempt to gerrymander certain boundaries by giving instructions to the Electoral Commissioners. That was in 1 965. The proposal was never proceeded with because in the middle of it all a hell of a battle broke out in Queensland over redistribution and the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  who was the Minister in charge of electoral matters at the time went for cover. When we brought in his proposals later he even lined up and voted against them in this House. This indicates the position. The Country Party in Queensland has a disgraceful record for gerrymandering. In New South Wales it is the same. In Western Australia the Labor Party will have to get 54 per cent of the votes to win. In addition to that for 30 years in South Australia  Mr Playford  never had a redistribution of electoral boundaries. We find today that the Country Party seeks to perpetuate this system in 
Australia, We will see that the electoral proposals are ultimately carried out even if we have to fight for them in the courts.  (Quorum formed).  Every time someone gets on to the truth and gets under the skin of members of the Country Party and their cohorts in regard to their weak approach to this problem they run for cover. 
I want also to refer to country polling booths. It is true that a number has been abolished. In the vast majority of cases there were no objections whatever from the members concerned. I will go further and say that I believe that people these days ought to be able to travel a few miles to vote. I can see no reason for maintaining at great expense polling places throughout areas where people probably will drive 20 miles to have a beer on a Saturday afternoon but will not go in to vote. I give honourable members opposite a warning: There is worse to come. A few more country polling booths will go. We are saving money. We are in the middle of an economy drive. We are taking the advice of honourable members opposite and the best way to do so is to cut out a few country polling booths. The opposition to this Bill collapses when one studies the unsavoury record of honourable members opposite on electoral reform. This legislation has the endorsement of the Australian people and of the joint sitting of this Parliament. Come hell or high water ultimately, even if the courts decide so, the proposals will become the law of the land. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Every  Senator and  Member of the Parliament is entitled to official car transport on certain occasions. 
(a) It is not possible to provide the individual costs for cars supplied to all Senators and Members. However, I outline below the individual costs for Ministers, Parliamentary Office-holders and others entitled to exclusive use of VIP cars. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my reply to question No. 1294 which appeared in  Hansard,  1 1 September 1975, page 1380. 
As an avid reader of the Press I advise the honourable member that I have seen the report. I notice that in a newspaper today, in  Column 8,  it is stated: 
At the last Federal elections, the N.S.W. Liberal Party considered $12,000 to $15,000 an adequate sum to mount a good showing in marginal seats. At the forthcoming elections an 'adequate sum' will be at least $20,000, a stiff amount to raise in some electorates. 
I also advise the honourable member that it is true that under the provisions of section 145 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act a candidate for a House of Representatives election may not expend more than $500. At the last election there were 245 candidates for the Senate and 500 for the House of Representatives. Of those candidates, including people who are now members of this Parliament, 392 failed to submit returns of expenses despite several requests. Fifty put in returns showing that they had exceeded the permitted expenditure. It is also correct to say that some sitting members of this Parliament, on both sides, have infringed section 145, notably the honourable member for Sturt who- I speak from memory- documented in the Press expenditure totalling $22,000 at the 1972 elections. 
The answer to this problem is to increase the permissible expenditure on elections to a reasonable amount for individuals and political parties and to enforce the provisions of the Act. Recently the Government introduced legislation providing for these provisions but it was rejected out of hand by the Opposition parties. Had the legislation been passed, the average amount spent would have been roughly $6,000 for parties and individuals. We now face the position where members of this Parliament, particularly some in the Opposition in the Senate, who would probably have their seats declared vacant for contravention of the Act, are deciding whether or not they will throw out a democratically elected Government. Also, people have been prosecuted for failure to enrol or vote whilst the legislators in great number defy the electoral law. The reason why no charges were levelled against those who contravened the law at the last election was that there was legislation before the Parliament which the Government believed would remedy the situation. But it was opposed by the Liberal and National Country Parties here and in another place. 
The position is that unless the Liberal and Country Parties are prepared to support the Labor legislation for reasonable expenditure which can be enforced, some interested elector outside this place may well take up the necessary challenge in the courts against one or more members of this Parliament or a senator, and may succeed. I understand that if a challenge is made the Act could be enforced. Therefore, I suggest to the Liberal and Country Parties that they give up playing politics on this matter and being parties to a situation in which there is one law for politicians and another for the electors. The Labor Party believes, as its legislation implied, in reasonable expenditure, enforceable, policed and in keeping with the electoral law. Finally, it is obvious that the Liberal and Country Parties do not want to curtail the expenditure because they are in the process of raising $60m for campaign expenditure at a time when the limit is $500 per member. I suggest to them that they are treading on very dangerous ground. They should be aware that if they proceed to spend $500,000 per electorate, their election to either House will be open to challenge, and rightly so. 
(10.23)-  I remain completely unmoved by the bitter personal attack on me by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  He has spoken of the changes that have been made in regard to polling places. I say to the honourable member that this matter is constantly under review. Not only country areas are affected. In this day and age we are long past the horse and buggy days in which the honourable member still lives. Transport facilities are infinitely better then they were and, consequently, sections of the Electoral Act dealing with polling places which were enacted in  1902,  about the year when the honourable member was born, no longer have application in this day and age. Consequently, we are constantly updating the provisions of the Electoral Act. 
Let us look at what the honourable member said. He claimed that some electors were a couple of hundred miles from their polling places. The honourable member for  Kalgoolie  (Mr Collard)  under the Government of which the honourable member for Wakefield was a member had to represent areas that were  500  miles from polling places. In some areas there are no polling places at all. But those people still manage to vote. The honourable member mentioned Oodnadatta in this respect. As a matter of fact Oodnadatta is on the railway line. There is a regular rail service to it. It is almost a suburb of Adelaide when compared with the distance some areas in the electorate of the honourable member for  Kalgoolie  are from the capital city of his State. 
Yes. The honourable member has probably never been there. Those electors have never seen him. That is why they vote for him. Who in Oodnadatta would vote for him if they ever saw him? I have here a list of the polling places which, for a number of reasons, have been abolished. Some of the electors concerned can travel 20 miles to cast a vote. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  said that the roads were bad. Well, his Government was in office for 23 years. If people cannot vote because of bad roads, they should blame the Country Party. It was in office for 23 years and did nothing about that problem. 
The honourable member for Wakefield lodged strong objection to the elimination of Frome North where 10 electors were concerned. These electors were only 56 kilometres from some place or other. The honourable member lodges a complaint when they are in fact 16, 20 or 24 kilometres away- only a hop, step and jump. I suggest that the honourable member likes to complain about everything, as do his colleagues. But none of them has ever complained about the honourable member for Kalgoorlie who represents the largest electorate in the world. People in his electorate rush 500 miles to a polling place to vote for him because they know he is worth voting for. When the honourable member complains about these matters and launches this bitter personal attack on me, why should I not remain unmoved? I have news for the honourable member. Already approximately 32 polling places have been abolished in his electorate and there are more to come. We think that any area with a population of fewer than 100 voters should not have a polling place; those people can vote by lodging a postal vote. Consequently there is no reason why this action should not be taken. 
The honourable member for Gwydir wept tears of blood. Let us look at the situation in his electorate. No one is more than about 16 kilometres from the closest polling place. Honourable members know that every cocky on polling day would go that far to have a beer. He would drive 20 miles to have a beer, so why should he not vote while he is there. 
The honourable member claims that there are bad roads in his district. If you take a good look at the honourable member for Gwydir you will see that he could not build a road. If his electors cannot get to a polling place to vote, they should vote to get a new member. If roads in his electorate have not been improved in the 23 years that his Government was in office, why should they vote for him- by postal vote or otherwise- in the future? I have news for the honourable member for Gwydir also. A few more closures are to come. A few more polling places will go in suburban electorates too because those polling places are too close together. By that action we will be saving money. 
Let me return to the honourable member for Wakefield. If the honourable member had voted to support the proposed redistribution of boundaries in South Australia, in future Frome North would have been represented by a Labor member, the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallace).  It was to be included in his new electorate. So, if the honourable member for Wakefield does not want to be bothered with those electors and if he thinks that they will not vote for him because there is no polling place there, he should vote for the proposed redistribution to give those people the chance to elect a decent Labor member instead of somebody like the honourable member for Wakefield who launches bitter personal attacks under the guise of doing something for his electors. 
I tell honourable members opposite that the Australian Labor Party is the one democratic party in this country. We believe that people are entitled to a vote. We believe that each vote should be of equal value. If I introduced legislation to double the number of polling places throughout Australia, every honourable member opposite would vote against that legislation because they are opposed to every electoral reform that has ever been brought in in this country. I will not say any more, other than to add that we are reviewing - 
-Currabubula is still a polling place. But the people there are so fair dinkum that they will go 100 miles to vote for a Daly. The honourable member need have no worry about that. The honourable member for Gwydir roared and screamed about dead rentals. Most of that dead rent commenced under the Government of which he was a member and under the administration of which he was the Minister responsible in this respect. 
That is correct. They could not pick the carpet colour. That cost $lm in rent, because McEwen or the honourable member for Gwydir did not know what colour carpet they wanted in some joint or other. The position in regard to dead rent is that a time factor is involved in the matter. There is the question of putting up partitioning. The contractor wants to start as soon as he can. Consequently, contracts must be signed. Delays take place in respect of partitioning and the choice of a carpet to suit the Minister. The colour and the size of the room must be considered. It may need to be a size appropriate for a Class 10 or Class 8 officer. Those sorts of problems arise. These things do occur. This Government has reduced to a minimum the dead rent associated with the policy pursued by the previous Government. We have reduced completely the dead rent that is paid, in view of all of the difficulties that existed. 
It is true that occasionally buildings are idle, but that is no fault of the Government. We have speeded up procedures to see that from the date on which the commencement of a lease is agreed to the time for which the building concerned is unoccupied is kept to a minimum. We see the people occupy the buildings as quickly as possible. Inevitably, partitioning and all these other factors enter into the matter. Certain delays can occur at certain times. But the same situation applies in private industry and everywhere else. The Government is no exception to that rule. Consequently the Auditor-General's report, which is a hardy annual and which is justified, no doubt, in the comments it makes, draws attention to these matters. At the same time, I point out that these are problems that cannot be completely avoided. So, the hysterics by the honourable member for Gwydir to cover up his fake campaign about the need to retain certain polling places does not hide the fact that the worst behaviour of the kind to which he refers occurred under the Government of which he was a member. The real reason why there is this dead rent problem is that the former Government was in office for so long. It did very little to remedy it and that practice has been continued. The Government and the people are losing certain moneys. Honourable members can rest assured and I assure the millions of people in this country who are listening to me tonight that we will see that these practices are terminated at the earliest moment and that money will be saved wherever possible. 

 Mr KELLY (Wakefield)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Does  the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
THE DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 11 July 1974, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The present rate of Mileage Allowance iscar with up to 4 cylinders- 9 cents per kilometre car with 3 or 6 cylinders- 10 cents per kilometre car with over 6 cylinders- 12.9 cents per kilometre 

26 November 1974. 
The Public Service Board determines the rates which are based on cost studies of a representative vehicle in each category. There are eight components which are taken into account:  fixed costs: comprehensive insurance third party insurance registration interest running costs: depreciation petrol tyres  repairs and maintenance 
3 ) The rate is currently under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Services and Property is responsible for Australian Government car transport in all States but not the A.C.T. or the Northern Territory. 
1 ) With certain exceptions, it is intended that all VIP cars will be white in colour. This has been implemented progressively with the new Ford LTD sedans which came into service in 1974-75. The exceptions are some Rolls Royce, Daimler and Bentley cars which have been in the fleet for a number of years and also 2 Mercedes Benz saloons used by the Gc vernor-General and the Chief Justice of the High Court. 
No. 
3 ) There are 99 VIP cars under the control of this Department and they are located as follows: 
I anticipated that an important question like this might be asked. I have been able to ascertain that certain negotiations were entered into in regard to this matter. I will explain it in full to the honourable member. The Australian Government did approach the Tonkin Government regarding the implementation of joint electoral rolls for Western Australia. On 6 December 1972 a joint report was submitted by the Commonwealth Electoral Officer for Western Australia and the State Chief Electoral Officer indicating the feasibility of such an arrangement. On 17 October 1973, the arrangement was signed by  His Excellency  the LieutenantGovernor of Western Australia and forwarded to the State Chief Electoral Officer for Western Australia. On 6 November 1973 the arrangement was signed by  His Excellency  The Governor-General. On 22 November 1973 the 
State Chief Electoral Officer for Western Australia advised that the Attorney-General had decided that the fixing of a date for implementation of the joint rolls arrangement be deferred . until amending legislation to the State Electoral Act was passed. This was expected to be in August 1974. On 30 March 1974 the Western Australian State elections resulted in a change of Government. 
On 3 1 July 1974  Mr T.  D. Evans asked the following question in the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia: 
Does the Government intend to legislate by amendment of the Electoral Act to facilitate the use of a joint CommonwealthState electoral roll at the next State general elections? 
If not, why not? 

 Mr 0"Neil, the Minister representing the Minister for Justice, replied: 
The matter is still under consideration. 
On 12 November 1974 verbal advice was received from the Australian Electoral Officer for Western Australia that the matter was still under consideration. On 14 November 1974,  Mr B.  T. Burke asked the following question in the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia: 
Does the Government intend to proceed with plans to amalgamate the Australian and Western Australian electoral rolls? 

 Mr 0'Neil the Minister representing the Minister for Justice, replied: 
No action is presently being contemplated. 
On 7 October 1975 verbal inquiries were made of the State Chief Electoral Officer for Western Australia. He has informed me that so far as he is aware there has been no change in the attitude of the Government of Western Australia towards the implementation of the joint rolls arrangement. Although the formal document for inaugurating the joint rolls arrangement was signed by the Lieutenant-Governor on behalf of Western Australia and the Governor-General on behalf of Australia it cannot be implemented until the State enacts certain legislation. It appears that the present Western Australian Government has gone cold on the scheme, but it is difficult to understand why this should be so bearing in mind that not only would it provide a better roll for State purposes but it would also save the State some thousands of dollars annually. I think the only reason can be that this action is part of a Western Australian Government attempt to gerrymander the boundaries of Western Australian State electorates which it is in the process of doing at this time at the dictates, as usual, of the infamous negotiators of false boundaries, the Country Party in Western Australia. 
Legislation providing for the disclosure of campaign funds by individuals and political parties has twice been introduced to this House and another place and rejected on both occasions, despite the fact that the previous Leader of the Opposition indicated that the Opposition would support it. The need for this legislation has since become more apparent, particularly this week when we have seen the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia, the lackey of the oil interests of this country, acting as a paid mercenary in this Parliament for oil interests because of the funds that have been provided to members of this Party. Everybody knows he speaks in this Parliament from briefs presented to him by the oil interests because they are putting in huge amounts of funds to defeat this Government. 
The Leader of the National Country Party is acting in this Parliament as a Charlie McCarthy for the oil interests simply because he and his Party are paid by the oil companies to bring into this Parliament the oil companies' case to defeat this Government if they possibly can. We find also that the Liberal Party is now getting into the scene. We find that the oil companies have the Leader of the Opposition speaking for them today in the Parliament. They have even paid the gentleman who was not going to take a brief to get on the front bench of the Opposition. He is asking the Attorney-General questions today. Every honourable member opposite today is so working in this Parliament, and they have to because the oil interests have put in huge funds and are calling the tune in this Parliament. 
They are the oil outlets, I am told. Is there any better reason why the public should know who is putting the funds into the Liberal Party? Why should the public not know that in the unlikely event that that collection of individuals opposite get into government they would be speaking on this side simply because they were paid by the oil companies? Is it any wonder that they do not want people to know where their funds are coming from? I say to the honourable member who asked me this question: I will give serious consideration to introducing this legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Contrary to the various reports appearing in the Press, photographs of the Prime Minister were placed in Australian Parliamentary offices at my direction and without reference to the Prime Minister. The cost involved was $347. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to House of Representatives question No. 3116  (Hansard,  1 October 1975, page 1598). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the consideration of my Department's Estimates, under Division 575- Conveyance of Members of Parliament and Others, by Senate Estimates Committee B on 2 October 1975 (Estimates Committee  Hansard,  pages 327-328). 
The speech of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  must be amongst the most remarkable ever made in this Parliament. We are debating one of the most reprehensible acts that any Senate or any parties have ever perpetrated in this country, yet the honourable member made a speech without mentioning it. And why should he not make such a speech? He is a significantly unfortunate choice as a  speaker  for the Opposition on this matter. The Senate has stopped Supply. It has not voted against it; it has deferred it. There is very little courage on the other side. What little there is has been pepped up and hounded along by the members of the National Country Party who will do anything for political survival. I shall quote an article of the honourable member for Moreton published in the  Australian  on 19 October 1973. This is what he said about governments in this place. 
This was written by the honourable member who has just spoken. I quote him: 
While it commands respect in the House of Representatives a government has a right to be granted supply. And this applies to all governments no matter what their politics. 
He then went on to say: 
The Senate has a right to reject Bills which enable the provisions relating to a double dissolution to take force. A supply or appropriation Bill is not in that category. 
He then said: 
If, in their anxiety for power, men lose sight of great principles they can put at risk the safety of their institutions. 
On 22 July, again in the  Australian,  he was reported in an article headed: 
Senate has delusions, says Killen. 
He was pretty right. He said: 
I have made my attitude quite clear, that refusal of Supply to force an election is not the Senate 's right. 
Is this the gentleman we just heard speaking? We have another article. The honourable member is like all writers. They write too much, and fellows like me save up the articles. An article appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1 1 April 1974, alongside the honourable member's beautiful smiling countenance giving gravity to the situation, in a way. The honourable gentleman said: 
The Senate has the power to force the House of Representatives to the people, but the House of Representatives cannot force the Senate to the people. Such a notion was never within the contemplation of the founders of the Commonwealth Constitution. It is a proposition which the overwhelming majority of Australians would regard as absurd. 
This was said by the shadow minister for defence, the honourable gentleman who has just spoken. In another article which appeared on 3 January 1975 in the  Australian-!  have become a contributor to the  Australian  because these articles are so valuable to me in debates of this kind- he said: 
A Senate rejection of supply would place at risk the maintenance of constitutional government in this country. 
Is this the gentleman who just spoke? Why did he not mention the measure we are debating? Why would he not avoid it if he could? In this article he wrote: 
Surely the role for the Liberal Party in 1975 is clear. It is to proclaim its basic philosophic conviction that the importance of the individual is not diminished by the power of the State, to assert the essentials of its association - 
And so on and so forth. Now, in a most contemptible way- I am sorry to say it- he is singing for his supper to keep in the shadow ministry. Why would he not sing for his supper? The other night in this Parliament he said that the last Prime Minister who patted him on the head sacked him. That was the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  I warn the honourable member, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  patted him on the head the other night and history may repeat itself. So I say to the honourable gentleman: 'Be careful. You have spoken from experience. A gentle pat like one would give to a tabby cat may spell doom and destruction for you'. The honourable member would know all about sacking because his Party started it in this country. The present Leader of the Opposition, with others, destroyed the Prime Minister of the day, the right honourable John Gorton, who still stands as the best Liberal in this Parliament, even though the Liberals will not have him. 
The Liberals know all about the use of knives because the Leader of the Party opposite trains on the use of knives. It is said that he was born with a silver spoon in his mouth and a golden dagger in his hand. The Liberal Party changed its Ministers so often that they got pass-out checks to get in and out. These are the people who talk about changes of the Ministry. The honourable member for Moreton completely destroyed the Liberal's case today. He is a front bench member and one whom we thought had political integrity and who would stand up and support the constitutional process of Australia. But now those people who sit in the National Country Party corner have the Liberals fearful of the things that they could do. We see the spectacle today of the Liberals out in this country organising meetings with the lovely ladies with their balloons, the dear old souls of the knitting circles who love Malcolm Fraser, the wealthy squire. 
Outside Parliament House today they regimented them in their hundreds- or their thousands as they say- but when the Liberals got to the meeting they found that the people were all in support of the Labor Government and the constitutional stand we are taking. The 5 Liberal speakers, aided and abetted by the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and others, could speak for only 40 minutes to an audience that, if they had been good speakers or if the audience had been with them, would have waited for a couple of hours. Then those speakers sneaked like poodle dogs back into the House, sent by their masters to come in here to try to put up a case for the actions of the Opposition. 
The Liberal Party does not have support on its side. Think of the 20 000 people who lined up to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in Melbourne, the thousands in Adelaide and the thousands in Sydney and other places who are clamouring to support the cause. The people outside this House ought to remember that this is not a new idea. The Opposition has never realised that it is not the Government. At 2 elections in 18 months it was beaten. From the very moment the people spoke in 1972 the Opposition plotted to stop Supply in an unconstitutional way in the Senate. In relation to the first threat to block Supply which resulted in a double dissolution,  Senator Withers  said that the action had been plotted 12 or 18 months before. The right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  as Leader of the Opposition tried and failed- he was forced into it by the National Country Party- as this Leader will fail who blithely follows the philosophy or the stand over tactics of the National Country Party. 
The honourable member who leads those opposite was elected as a man of principle. He is on record as saying that he favours a 4-year term of office. But history has shown that he is not a man of principle. The right honourable member for Higgins knows full well the qualities of the Leader of the Opposition for what they are. He had to put up with the present Leader of the Opposition for years. He had him in the Ministry. I do not have to state this side of the matter. When the former Leader of the Opposition said his followers would walk over hot coals for him, this gentleman is not one who walked over hot coals; e would not even walk over wet grass at Randwick at the rally that the previous Leader of the Opposition had there. 
The Opposition says it has a majority in the Senate. Australian Labor Party candidates at the last Senate election got more votes than candidates of all the other parties. Twenty-nine Labor senators, 29 Opposition senators and 2 Independent senators were elected. The Opposition does not even control the Senate in its own right. As  Senator Steele  Hall said, Opposition senators are walking with a dead man's vote in their pockets and trying to force out a constitutionally elected government. Even the honourable member for Moreton said that while we have a majority in this Parliament we should not be forced to face the Australian people at the behest of the Senate. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you know as well as I do that members of the Opposition are defying all conventions in another place by rejecting Supply. The casual Senate vacancies were filled by people who according to the manner in which they were appointed, have no more right to be members of the Senate than any person in this House has. In real anarchical style members of the Opposition are now advising the various State governments not to issue writs for a half Senate election. I suppose one could not blame our forefathers. Nobody could ever have realised that an individual like Bjelke-Petersen would ever be elected as a premier. One could not blame our forefathers for what is happening today. But had they known that that type of individual would ever gain power in a government I am certain they would have rewritten the Constitution. 
We are not supported in this great issue only by Australian Labor Party members of Parliament or the great majority of the Australian people.  Senator Steele  Hall, who boasts that. he is the only Liberal in the Senate, a former Liberal Premier, supports us. The right honourable member for Higgins, a former Liberal Prime Minister, supports the Australian Labor Party in its attitude today, and  Senator Bunton  also supports us. These 3 individuals have condemned the Opposition throughout the length and breadth of this country as destroying the very institution of Parliament. Let us have a look at the newspapers. As was mentioned today by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  the Liberal Party is spending $30,000 a day in newspaper advertisements to put its case over. The Liberal Party says that it must do what it is doing to revive Australia- the editorials of the  Courier Mail,  the  Age,  the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the  Advertiser,  the  Australian  and the Melbourne  Herald  say so. My heavens, we are going to have a government that will change its policy every time a leading article in a newspaper changes. 
I will tell honourable members opposite why they are following the papers' pattern: Because they are paying the newspapers $30,000 a day, or nearly $lm a month, to destroy a government unconstitutionally and they are giving support to that action. As the Prime Minister stated a moment ago, the Leader of the Opposition rang every newspaper before he would even speak on these issues in this Parliament. Consequently it is no wonder the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  condemns the action of the Liberal Party when it says that it has a mandate to destroy a government.  Senator Steele  Hall condemns this action. No wonder 20 000 or 25 000 people in Melbourne condemned it. No wonder the only ones in this country who think honourable members opposite are right because they will come at anything are that coalition section, the National Country Party, in this Parliament. If as the Prime Minister said, honourable members opposite were to read today's Melbourne  Herald  and other newspapers they would find that they have completely miscalculated the temper of the Australian people. The Australian People do not want an election every time a Senate seems to be different from the Government of the day in the House of Representatives. They do not want an election every 6 months. They are not prepared to accept that type of policy which was never intended by the founders of our Constitution. 
Today we heard in this Parliament one of the most bitter and hateful speeches that I suppose has ever been delivered with bias and venom in every word spoken against the Prime Minister by the Leader of the National Country Party. The Leader of the National Country Party never realised that the people do not want him in government. He has been beaten on 2 occasions in 18 months. I think he stays awake at night wondering and pondering how he can destroy this Government irrespective of the will of the people. The National Country Party will stop at nothing to gain power. Members of the National Country Party think that they have a divine right to rule. The tame, docile members of the Liberal Party- I congratulate them- every time the National Country Party speaks, run like rabbits to their burrows because for some reason or other they are scared stiff of a selection of people who get 10 per cent of the votes and have 20 per cent of the power in this Parliament. Last year the Leader of the National Country Party took credit for the double dissolution election on 18 May. But when the result of the election finished up in mid-air and Labor was returned to power, he said: 'Do not blame me'. The National Country Party claims to represent the country people when in fact it represents mineral cartels and huge multi-national corporations. National Country Party spokesmen in this Parliament are nothing better than paid lackeys for the huge oil companies in this country as well as the multinational organisations. The Party which is trying to force this issue today exists on rigged and loaded electoral boundaries. It is opposed to the principle of one vote one value. Honourable members opposite sell their principles, like the honourable member for Moreton in order to seek power by any means no matter what that does to the Australian people. 
This constitutional issue transcends all politics. That is proved by the people who are flocking to Labor Party rallies and the acclaim given to the Prime Minister today. Why should we organise meetings-  (Quorum formed).  No matter what might happen to the Australian people on this issue, the full responsibility lies with those opposite. If pensions are stopped, if the pay of people is stopped, if debts cannot be paid, those who sit opposite can remedy this by passing the Budget in another place. Honourable members opposite are the guilty men. Let them stand up and be counted and not be dominated by the National Country Party, of which they are so afraid. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I move: 
That the honourable member for the Northern Territory be suspended from the service of the House. 
The Bill is a machinery measure, differing in no significant respect from similar bills introduced by the then Government in 1968, 1970, 1971 and 1974. 
I repeat that  Senator Cotton  said that there was no Bill of this sort in 1968, 1969, 1970, 1971 and probably 1973-74. I ask,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that this document be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Under the Electoral Act no limit is imposed on political parties in respect of the amount of expenditure. A limit of $500 is imposed upon a candidate for the House of Representatives and a limit of $1,000 upon Senate candidates. Recently in this Parliament the Government introduced legislation seeking to impose limits on the expenditure of political parties and candidates and also seeking the disclosure of the source of campaign funds. But as one would expect from recent events, the parties opposite opposed not only the limit on the expenditure but also the disclosure of funds. The reason for that is apparent when we look at the advertisements that are now being inserted in the Press by honourable members opposite at a cost of $30,000 a day. When we see an advertisement -obviously a political advertisement and a campaign advertisement- saying that the constitutional powers of this Parliament are being attacked, because the newspapers of Australia want it, we realise the need for legislation of the type about which the honourable member has spoken. 
I have assessed what the Opposition parties are spending on the political campaign at this stage. One day's advertisement last week in the Daily Telegraph, the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the  Daily Mirror  and the  Sun  was worth $8,000 to them, or $48,000 a week. The Melbourne  Age,  the  Sun-News Pictorial  and the  Herald  ran advertisements worth $7,000 in one day, which is $42,000 a week. The Brisbane  Courier-Mail  and the  Telegraph  received $3,000 in a day, or a total of $ 1 8,000 a week. The Adelaide  Advertiser  and the  News  received $3,000 or a total of $18,000 a week. The  West Australian  and the  Daily News  received $1,500 in a day, or $9,000 a week. The Hobart  Mercury  received $750 a day or roughly $4,000 a week. The  Canberra Times  received $886 a day, or a total of about $5,000 a week. The  Australian  stands to gain about $19,000 in a week. Why should legislation not be introduced to enable us to know the source of those funds? 
No wonder those people want to see this Government wrecked. Opposition advertisements are a goldmine for the newspapers, and their sponsor in this Parliament is the Leader of the Opposition. No wonder the great campaign has been waged. But where are the funds coming from? A lot of them are coming from the interests which the Leader of the National Country Party represents in this Parliament- the oil combines. Even last night, I understand, because of the support given and because of the money being spent the Leader of the Opposition was on the telephone to a senior executive from News Limited giving that gentleman a personal account of his talks with the Governor-General on the constitutional crisis. That is why this Parliament should know where the funds are coming from. Those opposite are breaking down all the tenets of the Constitution in an endeavour to wreck a government that seeks to make known to the Australian people the forces behind the Opposition parties. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. It arises out of the personal explanation by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He inferred that I had received certain information from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  which of course is completely false. The source of my information I believe to be very reliable, and that is proved by the fact that the honourable gentleman did have a conversation. He should realise that sometimes when he loses a direct number he has to ring through his staff and others, and there may be leaks in those directions. It did not come from the source he mentioned, but the reliability of it is proved by the fact that the conversation took place. 
-This is an important matter. I thought I might be asked a question on it so I am in a position to provide the honourable member with the information. Due to the unprecedented and unprincipled actions of Opposition senators in refusing to pass the Budget it has been necessary for me critically to review the allocation of available funds provided for the conveyance of members of the Australian Parliament which are administered by my Department. The following restrictions will come into force forthwith and will apply for the duration of the present constitutional crisis. Overseas travel financed from the members' travel vote will not be authorised. Travel by wives and children of members and senators will be suspended. Official car transport in Canberra will be limited to transport to and from the airport, to the Parliament and from the Parliament to home. All travel facilities now available to retired life gold pass holders and other retired members who have travel privileges have been suspended. The use of charter aircraft will be suspended. The payment of car allowance paid when members use their private vehicle on parliamentary business, other than travel to Canberra, will be suspended. 
In addition to these restrictions I have decided to curtail certain other facilities which will assist in conserving funds. The purchase of newspapers for all senators and members will be discontinued. 
Opposition members- Ha, ha. 
I am reminded that newspaper proprietors will have to put in reverse charge calls , to the Leader of the Opposition from here on. Honourable members may laugh, but newspapers are costing in the vicinity of $35,000 to $40,000 per annum. The reimbursement of private telephone services will be suspended. Interstate travel by relief electorate secretaries has been discontinued. The employment of any additional electorate assistants has been suspended. Furthermore, if Opposition senators see fit to continue their stand and not grant Supply it will be necessary to review these restrictions. Ultimately- I ask honourable members to listen to this- and maybe as early as next week it may be necessary to withdraw travel facilities completely. 
I notice the Leader of the Opposition is smiling his $50,000 smile. I ask honourable members to listen because this is very important to them. If Opposition senators see fit to continue their stand and not grant Supply it will be necessary to review these restrictions. Ultimately and maybe as early as next week it could be necessary to withdraw travel facilities completely and to give senators and members a return airline ticket to enable them to come to Canberra for the period that Parliament is in session. 
Honourable members- Hear, hear! 
A lot of the Liberal and National Country Party members cannot get here when we are paying for them. How will they go in that event? This course of action I propose is forced upon me by the circumstances imposed by the Opposition. Honourable members will agree that it would be unthinkable to perpetuate a privileged group in these precincts while the country as a whole is .suffering as a result of the unprincipled actions of Opposition senators. 
I move: 
That the House at its rising adjourn until 1 1 o'clock a.m. on Tuesday next. 
In moving this motion let me say that it is proposed to sit at 1 1 a.m. until 6 p.m. on Tuesday, and on Wednesday and Thursday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. There will be a break for lunch between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. The duration of the sittings is unknown at present and rests on the Opposition's attitude in the Senate to the Government's Budget. So I do not think we will have a very long siege. The change will bring about savings in costs relating to salaries of officers of the Parliament, to departments and to transport. It is one measure which is needed because of the unprincipled, unprecedented and unwarranted action by the leadership of the Opposition, who have made a grab for power, and of course by the change of events in Australian constitutional history. 
As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said at question time this morning, the primary obligation of this Parliament is to pass the Budget and to see that people are not inconvenienced and caused suffering and hardship because of any actions of this Parliament, particularly by a government which has the confidence of this House and of the Australian people, and because of actions of those in the Senate who are stopping the passing of the Budget without the courage to reject it- just deferring it. The waverers there are not prepared to reject it because they know that they will be setting in train events which will completely destroy democracy in this country. These changes are necessary because of that action. They may continue indefinitely. I advise members at this stage- I repeat the advice- that in the very near future they will get probably one ticket to this Parliament and will stay here until it ends. That will apply to all members, no matter what their position. 
I say to the honourable member opposite that the office holders of this Parliament who waste the most money are the honourable member who has just interjected, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and others who use VIP aircraft and charter aircraft and whose car accounts are amongst the highest in the country. The only thing that stops me - 
The honourable member has not paid his Avis account yet on which he owes $ 1 , 500 for the last 1 8 months. If that money were paid it would help us keep a couple of workers in jobs at this stage. It is all right honourable members growling about what is done in respect of privileges on this side of the House. The greatest and most extravagant spenders are the office holders of the Opposition. We can look at their car accounts, their VIP accounts, their charter accounts and everything else. The only thing that stops us from bringing in effectively a full curtailment of office holders' facilities is the inconvenience which would be caused to members of the Opposition because we want them to have every opportunity to put their infamous case to the Australian people. I do not want to be challenged from the Opposition on facilities and expenditure because if there are challenges I will put on the record the files I have in my Department and we will see precisely who is doing all the - 
The motion that has been moved and seconded- 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  be not further heard. 
I am in a position to give the honourable member a full and complete answer to that question. I understand that yesterday afternoon a Commonwealth ministerial car was booked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to meet Ansett flight 36 1, 2. 10 p.m. from Sydney, and that of course commenced a drama in Canberra yesterday that has rarely been equalled. The car was to meet a person named  Mr Khemlani.  I understand that the gentleman approached the Commonwealth car dressed in a safari suit and wearing dark glasses. He was met by bearded investigators who hustled him into the VIP room while the Commonwealth car backed into the normally restricted luggage area and his 8 bulging briefcases were loaded into it. 

 Mr Khemlani was then pushed into the Commonwealth car along with 2 sinister bearded staff members and taken on a high speed car chase through the back streets of Fyshwick reaching speeds of 100 kilometres per hour, turning down side streets and doing sudden U turns before coming to a sudden stop at his destination- a $23 a night room at the Hotel Wellington.  Mr Khemlani,  still using the car, and the men then disappeared into room 49- the room adjoining the motel shoe-shine box. Lemonade, potato chips and 2 Sydney afternoon papers were pushed through the breakfast hatch. He stayed locked in his room while the staff members stayed huddled in a corner sifting through his 8 suitcases of documents. Later in the afternoon  Mr Khemlani  was taken on another high speed car chase. This time, as a taxi pulled up at the front of the motel,  Mr Khemlani  disappeared out the back door and sped off in a late model gold Torana with the manager of the Wellington Hotel at the wheel. That is service. It raced through the peak hour traffic, went one and a half times round State Circle, and reached speeds of up to 120 km along Commonwealth Avenue before swinging around and returning to the hotel. Then  Mr Khemlani  disappeared. 
An hour later his brief cases were lugged into a lift at the $33 a night Lakeside Hotel where  Mr Khemlani  usually stays. But he was not booked in there last night. Last night  Mr Khemlani  was locked up with 2 Opposition front benchers,  Mr Bob  Ellicott and  Mr John  Howard, going through suitcases full of documents. As if he were not in enough trouble without being locked up with them! I come back again to the Commonwealth car. Poor  Mr Khemlani:  He had come all the way from Singapore, at his own cost and without a visa, to clear his name and he had all that excess baggage with him. What must he think of Australia- his life was endangered by high speed car chases in Commonwealth cars; his bags were searched by bearded investigators, and as far as we know they were not false beards; he was booked into a $23 a night room next to a shoe shine box yet his bags were booked into a $33 a night international hotel; he was locked up all afternoon with bearded men and then all night with 2 members of the Opposition - 
And then fed with peanuts. He must also be wondering why the Opposition would pay out all that money for his bags but was too lousy to pay for a taxi fare for him to go from the airport to the hotel. That brings me back to the original point about the misuse of a Commonwealth car. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to inform the House that I accept the notice of motion given yesterday by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  as a want of confidence motion for the purposes of standing order No. 1 10. 1 take it that the notice of motion will now be called on. 
-Imove: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent: 
An Appropriation Bill No. (1) 1975-76 [No. 3] and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1975-76 [No. 3]. 
being presented together at this sitting and read a first time together and one motion being moved without delay and one question being put in regard to, respectively, the second readings, the committee's report stage, and the third readings, of the Bills together, and 
being considered in one committee of the whole. 
The Leader of the House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of an Appropriation Bill (No.1) 1975-76 [No. 3] and an Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1975-76 [No. 3]. 
 I declare that the following Bills are urgent Bills: 
Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1 975-76 [No. 3], and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1975-76 [No. 3]. 
-Imove: 
That the allotment of time in connection with the Bills be as follows: For the second reading, until 2.15 p.m. this day; for the Committee stage, until 2.25 p.m. this day; for the remaining stages, until 2.35 p.m. this day. 
This is the third time these Bills have been presented to this House. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the Minister be not further heard. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) See answer provided by the Minister representing the Minister for the Media on 4 December 1974 (Hansard, page 4590). 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this BUI I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill and the Local Government Grants Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
We have just heard a pathetic cry for mercy from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his attempt to gain power by the sleazy road. He is trying to buoy up his supporters, who at a lunch time meeting today told him to surrender because the task he has undertaken is one in which he cannot win. Honourable members do not have to take my word for it. Seventy per cent of the people say: 'Pass Supply'. The National Country Party of Australia has forced the Leader of the Opposition to speak to the Parliament. This is the first occasion of late that he has been game to come into the chamber. He only came in because the Country Party said: 'We are lost. Somebody must save us, because the people do not want what is happening'. Now the Leader of the Opposition says: 'Let the House of Representatives face the electors'. He said: 'Under no circumstances have a Senate election. Whatever you do, do not let the Senate face the people. We do not want a Senate election, because the 70 per cent who favour passing the Appropriation Bills will give us the result that we do not want'. That is the position. 
Opposition members have chased all round this country for scandals. They have chased them every day. They have moved 2 censure motions in a week in this Parliament. Only a week ago this Parliament passed a vote of confidence in the Australian Government. Why would the Leader of the Opposition not be crying for mercy today? It is said that the gentleman from overseas is leaving again on Monday, so members of the Opposition are going to have an inquiry on Tuesday. They have chased the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  around. They are going back into the past. Every second day they are looking for some new issue. Today the Leader of the Opposition came into the Parliament not to speak on the Bills before it but to apologise for the waning enthusiasm of his supporters in a campaign that has been condemned by all Australian people. We know how he is in his present position. As Steele Hall said, he is carrying the votes of dead men in his pocket in another place. Is it not a fact also that he condones the likes of Field and others coming to the Senate? I suppose he condoned the attitude of the Queensland Governor, who stepped into the political arena. What would he say if  Sir John  Kerr, the Governor-General, made a similar statement in support of the Government? He would be crying to the high heavens. 
The Leader of the Opposition in his attempt to gain power, as Steele Hall has said, by the sleazy road, today has tried to discredit this Government. When the pay is not paid to the people of this country, as will happen shortly, have no doubt this Government will not be blamed; it will be those who sit opposite. If people want money to flow, all those who sit opposite have to do is constitutionally give effect to what is the right of this Parliament and say: 'This is the Government of the land'. They are not game to reject the Budget. Their own senators said that they are not going to reject it. If they have the power to reject it, why do they not do so? I will tell the House why. They are not game; they are not courageous; they are a lot of political cowards. They are deferring it from hour to hour. They are doing it because the National Country Party in the main will do anything on its sleazy road to power, and a docile, contemptible Liberal Party and a Liberal Leader bend the knee to it. 
We all know that the Leader of the Opposition holds his present office because his methods have always been sleazy. I saw the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  leave the chamber. Why would he not leave? Honourable members opposite do not know when they are going to be stabbed even when sitting on the back benches. Have honourable members ever noticed that everybody opposite sits behind the Leader of the Opposition? Nobody is game to walk in front of him because he has more knives than any cutlery expert who ever came to this country. They know they will be stabbed. I have been told by Liberals since their meeting today that at the meeting members who wanted to speak in favour of letting the Budget pass were cried down. They were told: 'It is 2 o'clock. The Parliament is meeting'. The Liberals called a meeting today at 1.30 simply because they knew that in half an hour they could not get a decision that would force the Opposition to do the right thing- to vote for the passing of the Appropriation Bills. 
Honourable members opposite today are quivering in their shoes. The results of a poll back surrender by the Senate. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  laughs, but it is a hollow laugh. He does not want a Senate election either. He wants a dead man's vote in his pocket. Do not let members of the Opposition forget this is what they are relying on. Let us hear the words of this famous democrat, the Leader of the Opposition, who just spoke, demanding that the people's voice be heard. He was not too happy to hear about the 70 per cent mentioned in the Press this morning. He said that he had not read this morning's paper. The relevant part was in big print too so he could easily understand it, but he did not read about the 70 per cent. Let us hear the words of the democrat who sits opposite. He said: 
If the Parliament becomes unworkable by destruction of convention, democracy itself becomes unworkable because democracy rests much more on adherence to convention than to the rigid application of rules and laws. 
That was said by Malcolm Fraser on 2 March 1975. 'RIP' is how that should have ended, because with that statement out the door went his traditions and all that went with them. The Labor Party is not standing alone on this issue. People all over Australia are clamouring to support the Government in its stand against the Senate, which unconstitutionally seeks to destroy the people's government. If honourable members opposite do not believe it, let them come and address some of the rallies we go to. The other day a rally of several thousand people was organised by the Liberal Party in front of Parliament House and the people cheered for Whitlam to come and address them. They sent Anthony, 
Fraser and others scurrying in the door of Parliament House. At Hyde Park in Sydney on the wettest day ever 30 000 or 40 000 people turned up for a Labor Party rally. Money is coming in in thousands because people will not see democracy destroyed by a collection of individuals opposite who exist on dead men's votes. 
Do not forget that the Government is not on its own. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  a former Leader of the Liberal Party, a former Prime Minister of this country, is one who has come out and said that the action of those who sit opposite should be condemned.  Senator Steele  Hall, who by no means is a member of the Labor Party, said that members of the Opposition are on the sleazy road to power. They do not like Steele Hall- and he is one of their own. I do not remember seeing him at any Labor Party branch in this country.  Senator Bunton,  by no means a Labor man, also stands against the Opposition's action. Is it any wonder therefore that the Liberals are spending $50,000 to try to get the Leader of the Opposition to smile? He has nothing to smile about. He is the man who is destroying democracy. I will give members of the Opposition the good oil: Do not spend $50,000 on a campaign to make him smile. They will get a good laugh for that, but what I suggest is that they buy him a tube of Colgate's toothpaste for 20c and bring back a ring of confidence to his face. 
Let it not be forgotten that the Opposition's action has not been put on for democracy. It has told us why it was taken. In an advertisement in the  Daily News  of Friday, 17 October 1975, the Leader of the Opposition said: 
We must do it to revive Australia. 
It goes on to say a whole lot of other things to revive Australia. There is a photograph. He smiled for once there. But on another page is a big advertisement saying, in effect: 'We did it because all the leading newspapers of Australia told us we had to do it'. So Murdoch told him; the Fairfaxes told him; the Melbourne  Herald  and the  Sun  and others told him. This is why these people say that they are going to wreck democracy. They want to beat the government of the day. They could not do it in 2 elections in 1 8 months. 
Do not say that this is a new idea. This Government had not been elected for more than a few months when the Opposition plotted to withdraw Supply from it and to stop its flow of money.  Senator Withers  said that they arranged to do it even before the votes had been finally counted. Eighteen months ago we took the Opposition to the Australian people and did it like a dinner. Now today it comes again and seeks to put the Government out. We have faced up to this position and have let the people realise that if the Senate is not stopped on this occasion under the domination of men such as those who sit opposite, the Leader of the Opposition and the right honourable Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  every three or four months in this country the people will face an election when we come for Supply.  (Quorum formed) 
You can see the guilt of those opposite when they do not like the truth being told to them. I repeat for those who might not have been listening to me a few moments ago that the Leader of the Opposition came up to see whether he could lift up the flagging enthusiasm of those who sit opposite. I understand, for instance, that the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  who is sitting at the table, was one of those in the Caucus today who said: 'Surrender at all costs because I want to get back and I cannot stand - 
This is what we have heard. There are a lot of leaks from the Caucus and the Whip who just called for a quorum is one of those who helped to stab the previous Leader of the Opposition in the back in order to get his job from his predecessor. Everybody opposite knows that the only way they keep supporters is to have more members in the shadow cabinet than on the back bench. The Leader of the Opposition is always sure of a majority of support in the Senate for the simple reason that if they vote against him he tosses them out. We expect the number in the shadow Cabinet to go to 30, 40 or 50 shortly because at the rate the Opposition is going there will not be anybody supporting the Leader of the Opposition who is not indebted to him. 
The Country Party always has two or three members present to watch the Liberals. None of them dares to nod. They have always got to be here to watch the Liberals. They travel like British cops; there is always a couple there, all the time. They are on duty today to make sure that the Liberals support this point of view. Has the House noticed how they had to cheer when the Leader of the Opposition was in the chamber because the Country Party is watching them all? The worst of them is the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who is trying to interject. 
Let there be no doubt in the minds of the Australian people that the Senate is stopping Supply by deferring it. Opposition senators are not prepared to vote for or against it. If they have the power to stop Supply, why are they not prepared to do it? I will tell them why. It is because they have not the courage to do it. It is because when the pay packets cease this Government will not be blamed but those who sit opposite will be blamed for stopping people with families from getting their pay. They will be blamed when the contractors are closing down, when the funds are not available to provide housing for the people, when work in the Northern Territory is stopping, when in the Australian Capital Territory men cannot get paid and industry is slowing down; when all over this country unemployment is mounting simply because the money is not available due to the action of the Liberal and Country Party senators. 
I think it will even penetrate the head of the honourable member for Bennelong who sits opposite, dull as he is, that his is the responsible party. Let there be no doubt about it. They are the first ones, as  Senator Steele  Hall said, to destroy Christmas. The people who are stopping the money supply in this country are the members of the Liberal and Country parties in the Senate. They are not voting against it. They are afraid to vote against it. They are a cowardly and contemptible lot and will not vote against it. All they are doing is causing harm, dissatisfaction and suffering in the community, simply by following their sleazy road to power. They struggle across the Senate with a dead man's vote in their pocket, and the Leader of the Opposition supported that attitude today. I can understand the bushrangers who sit over there. They would stand for anything. But I thought the man who wrote the famous words which I read a moment ago had some principle associated with him. 
The situation is that in 75 years the Senate has not taken this action and nothing has been done in this country that has destroyed the stability of democracy more than the attitude of those doing it at this time. The people of this country face up to this matter. This Government has been elected twice in 1 8 months for 3-year periods. Those who sit opposite cannot believe that they are not still in government. They cannot read the results. They are born to rule. They are the people who should be running this country. They are even offering the Governor-General advice from the Senate. Who the hell would take their advice on this side, let alone the Governor-General. 
They cannot believe that they are not in office. But in another place in a cowardly and contemptible way they defer and defer Supply. They are calling party meetings to try to bolster up their failing support. They have given up reading the newspapers. That is one of the reasons why I stopped having them delivered. I thought they would all have heart attacks over there. I have done them a good turn. If we could turn on the television we would see them smiling again. Those opposite know as well as I do that they do not want a Senate election under any circumstances. It is unconstitutional. But they say that the Senate should stop the supply of money to the duly elected Government and should force this party and this Government to the people. What a perfect arrangement for people who believe in the sleazy road to power. Those are not my words. They are the magnificent words of  Senator Steele  Hall, who, I understand, is the only liberal in the Senate and consequently has been expelled from the Liberal Party. 
We on this side of the House know the situation. The money is running down. All industry may well stop because of the circumstances caused by the lack of Supply. Those who sit opposite will have to give up deferring. If they are courageous, they should stand up and be counted. They should go to the Northern Territory for a week or two. They should visit there once in a while to see whether they can tell the people that they are responsible for cutting off $100m or more and that they will not let it pass in the Senate. We see an Opposition in its death throes. Changes will be made in the not too distant future. The surrender is imminent. The flagging fortunes, hope and faith of those who stood behind the great Fraser are now very shaky. The newspapers of this country have turned against them. The very people who told them to turn this on- the  Courier-Mail,  the  Herald,  and others- are now telling them to do the right thing by Australia because they are ruining the country by their action. Every worker who is unemployed as a result of that action, every public servant in Canberra who does not get paid, any industry that has to close down and any man or woman in the Northern Territory who may be out of work because of it should blame the Leader of the Opposition and the top members of the Country Party. Those who sit in Opposition in another place, by using a dead man's vote, are responsible for the supply of money being cut off at a time when Australia needs it as never before. 
It is not a question of this country going broke. It is not a question of not enough money. It is a question of those opposite denying the Government the right to spend that money. Honourable members opposite have stopped the authority of this Parliament to spend that money and consequently they are responsible. Although there are a few brilliant brains opposite not one of them could convince the Australian people that we were the ones who had stopped the supply of money. The people know full well that those members opposite are the ones responsible. 
I take no notice of the interjections from the Opposition Whip, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  He has to sing for his supper. He was put in that position because he used a knife with the dexterity of the Leader of the Opposition. He helped to stab the previous Leader and he is now stabbing democracy. Consequently his interjections do not worry me. The synthetic smiles of members opposite and the strange looks that they have on their faces do not hide the fact that they are facing a very grim future. I know- Liberals have told me- that they are horrified of what they have done. They have told me how their Leader today got a dreadful reception in his Party room. They have told me also that he was the only one there smiling- most people thought it was a snarl; but they said it was a smile. We find that the Leader of the Opposition is now tottering to his political doom because of this action in which he is destroying democracy aided, .abetted and supported by those who sit opposite. 
I say to the Opposition members of the Senate: If they really believe in democracy let the Bessells and others stand up and be counted and refuse to vote against Supply as they have said they would. Let the money flow again. Only then will we have again a secure and prosperous Australia. Honourable members opposite deserve to be condemned. I accept the apology of the Leader of the Opposition today. By this time next week no doubt we will get a total surrender and he will find that the 70 per cent of Australians who believe as we do will signal again a great fight for democracy by the present Prime Minister, the Australian Labor Party and all fair dinkum Australians. 
I am not in a position to give the honourable member accurate figures but I believe a Senate election would cost approximately $3m to $3.5m. The more Senate candidates there are, the greater is the cost involved. 
The 73 candidates in New South Wales at the last election caused additional overtime and involved counting procedures were made necessary, and great additional costs were incurred. It is anticipated, because of the failure of those opposite to support legislation dealing with optional preferential voting, that we could have up to 240 candidates in New South Wales. This means not only that there will be a lengthy period of counting but there will also be tremendous expense. And of course the number of informal votes cast will be increased. This state of affairs will add to the great cost involved. It is the responsibility of those opposite. The need for electoral reform is shown particularly by the added costs and the need to have reasonable voting procedures. I cannot give the honourable member any more information than that but I will see that he is provided with detailed information regarding the costs of the last six or seven elections in order that he will see the tremendous cost involved particularly because of increased numbers of candidates. 
I declare that the Customs Tariff Bill 1975 is an urgent Bill. 
I move: 
That the allotment of time in connection with the Bill be as follows: For the remainder of the Committee stage, until 3.50 p.m. this day; for the remaining stages, until 4 p.m. this day. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I will be delighted to inform the honourable member of the reasons why the Government has taken certain action in the Parliament. Before I do so, I am prompted to refer to an article that appeared in the  Australian  of today 's date under the heading: 
Opposition can't get a hearing, claims Chipp. 
It states: 
The shadow Minister for Social Security and Welfare,  Mr Chipp,  flew from Canberra to Sydney yesterday to give a press conference because he claimed the Opposition was being gagged and guillotined into silence by the Government. 
He said the Opposition could no longer get its story across to the people of Australia from Canberra . . . 'We cannot get a debate going on anything in the House',  Mr Chipp  said. 'Debate after debate is being gagged. We are prevented from initiating debate. If we are frustrated in debate in Parliament, another opening has to be sought '. 

 Mr Chipp said Parliament had once been the place where the Opposition could get its point across as well as the Government, but this was no longer the case . . . 
The suppression of debate had led to a situation where there was a 'storehouse' of double dissolution bills waiting to go through. 

 Mr Chipp named three bills . . . 
The Inster-State Commission Bill . . . 
The Broadcast and TV Authority Bill . . . 
The Electoral Bill, which he claimed would enable the Labor Party to receive vast sums of money from the trade union movement, while threatening heavy fines for any business that gave the Liberal Party financial support. 
I quoted that in order to set the record straight, because many of the statements made there are completely false, which is unusual for the honourable member. Firstly, these sittings are for only one reason; that is, to see that the Budget is passed in the interests of the Australian people. We were reluctant to adopt the course which we have adopted in the Parliament but it has been caused by the unprecedented, unprincipled, undemocratic and irresponsible actions of the Liberal and National Country Party members in both Houses, particularly in the Senate, where they have gone on strike. In this Parliament the debates will be restricted to business that is important to the Government, and priority will be given exclusively to the passing of the Budget. It is true that honourable members opposite are endeavouring to frustrate debate. We find that the honourable member has complained about the use of the guillotine. He was one of those who voted for putting 17 Bills through this Parliament in 19 hours when we were in Opposition. We also find that the Opposition  Deputy  Whip has caused untold inconvenience to honourable members opposite by constantly calling in a most stupid way for quorums and things of that nature. It is certainly a good speech for him when he says 'Quorum ' because it is a long one. That is what he does continually. 
The honourable member for Hotham, who made this statement, has hardly asked a question in this Parliament since June. He has been reprimanded by his Leader for not knowing the Opposition's policy on Medibank. He has been sulking and is on the brink of being dismissed from die large and unbalanced shadow Cabinet. In addition, his statement about campaign funds is completely false. Legislation was brought into this Parliament to make every candidate and every political Party, without exception, reveal the source of their campaign funds. Honourable members opposite said that they would support it, until the funds started to roll in from the Central Intelligence Agency, the oil companies, the newspapers and others. Then they went for cover. Had this legislation been the law yesterday we could have found out for sure just how much the Country Party received from the CIA. But we do not know now. We have to take their word for it. That legislation is being opposed by honourable members opposite, and the statement of the honourable member for Hotham is completely false. 
To bring the honourable member up to date, I point out that the Inter-State Commission Bill has passed through both Houses of the Parliament and is now the law of the land. So may I suggest that, instead of commuting to and from Sydney to get his name in the Press occasionally, the honourable member should spend a bit more time in the Parliament. The Leader of the Opposition has said that honourable members should be in the Parliament when Parliament is sitting. Yet we find, at a time when the public is suffering great stress because of the actions of the Leader of the Opposition and his friends, the honourable member for Hotham is jet setting, as it were, to and from Sydney. I will name a few other later who are doing the same thing. They will not be doing it for long; I will give them the good oil on that. 
I advise this House, so that honourable members opposite will not waste the time of the Parliament, that the business conducted in this Parliament will be exclusively directed towards passing the Budget in this Parliament. We do not want to be told that we are doing anything undemocratic, because everthing that I know about leading the House I learnt from the late  Sir Eric  Harrison, a Liberal leader in this Parliament, who was looked upon as one of the greatest leaders in the Parliament. In the way in which I conduct the business of this House I am only giving effect to Liberal attitudes of days gone by.  Sir Eric  Harrison was held up and exalted by all as a first class Leader of the House. If one studies his record one will see that mine does not match it but goes pretty close. Having said that, I give the lie direct to what the honourable member for Hotham said. It is so unlike him to be so misleading. My advice to him is to spend more time in the House and learn what is going on instead of jet setting around the place, and to vote for legislation such as the disclosure of funds. Then he will know where the ill-gotten gains of the Country Party and his own Party are coming from. 
I am not in a position at this stage accurately to give the honourable member any advice as to what actual restrictions will be imposed, but I feel that the question is well justified because I read in today's  Australian  a report by. a  Mr Barney  Murray. The report stated: 
The Opposition will put pressure on government MPs by campaigning in marginal seats while the House of Representatives is still sitting. 
Opposition shadow Cabinet members will hold press conferences in and around the marginal seats to push the Liberal-Country Parties' case for blocking Supply. 
The Opposition is making the move because of the Government's control of the House of Representatives. 
Honourable members opposite do not think they have been beaten yet. They have not read the results of the last 2 elections. We have given this Parliament unprecedented opportunity for debate. We are sitting now at a time when we should be in recess. We have sat a couple of weeks extra. What more could honourable members wish for but extra days? I find that honourable members opposite are returning to electorates to hold Press conferences- not to hold public meetings. The people want to hear only Labor speakers on this issue. Honourable members opposite are not game to face people on the streets and in the public places; but behind the closed doors of Press conferences shadow Ministers will put their case from one side backed up by false documents and other things. 
The Leader of the Opposition stood up in this place and said that the Opposition would not grant pairs because every member should be in his place when this Parliament is in session. Yet I have here a list of members who are jet-setting sometimes once and sometimes twice a week to the various capital cities at a time when members are restricted in the use of their facilities. I tell honourable members opposite that their place is in the Parliament. They are not going to the capital cities to address their electors. They are going to other electorates. They are not game to go back to their own border-line seats. I will give honourable members opposite the good oil: Do not worry about our border-line seats; have a good look at your own, because that is where the worry is. I advise honourable members oppositeI say this in all seriousness- that if they think there is an unlimited supply of funds for members' travel while this crisis is on they are in for a very severe shock. I have a list of the names of members who in recent weeks have travelled to and from Canberra on the same day. Quite frankly, that will stop. 
The honourable member who interjects wants us to reveal the source of our gifts but will not tell us where his funds come from. He has 2 sets of ethics. 
Yes, 2 sets of valuations. I thank the Prime Minister for a very intelligent interjection. I say to honourable members that this week there will be a review of members' travelling faculties. No matter what else might be done, the practice of honourable members opposite leaving Canberra when Parliament is in session and spending money unnecessarily will definitely stop. I am indebted also to the Opposition Whip who put a question on the notice paper. It was not directed to me, but I think we might take up his suggestion and start with Opposition office holders and curtail some of their expenditure, which is extremely extravagant. 

That Government business take precedence over general business tomorrow. 
The purpose of this motion is - Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
-On 23 October I advised the Parliament that certain restrictions relating to travel and the provision of services to senators and members would be introduced. At that time I advised senators and members that if the Opposition saw fit to continue its unprecedented and unprincipled stand in not passing the Appropriation Bills it would be necessary to impose more stringent restrictions. As Opposition senators have not yet passed these Bills funds are running out. It has been necessary to review members ' facilities again. I now have to advise the House that funds can now be provided only as follows: Members will be issued with a return travel warrant from their homes to Canberra each week for the period Parliament is in session. Travel warrants for Canberra will be issued by my Department through the respective transport officers at Parliament House or in the State offices. Members or senators will not be entitled to use travel warrants from the warrant books, on issue to them while the Houses of Parliament are sitting. They will be responsible for the cost of their own travel if they travel to and from places as honourable members opposite are now doing. Official car transport in the States will be limited to travel between home and airport when travelling to and from Canberra only. Former office holders still in Parliament will be entitled to only the travel entitlement of private members. That puts the right honourable member for Lowe on his feet again. No travel entitlements will be available for wives of members and senators, including Ministers and office holders. Travel by Ministers and Opposition office holders will be available only when necessary for the discharge of their responsibilities. This applies to the Leader of the Opposition and to the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party. In respect of non-Canberra based staff of Ministers and office holders, no more than 50 per cent will be enabled to travel to Canberra. The Special Minister of State,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, and I have agreed that the following arrangements are to apply forthwith: 
Staff: No new appointments are to be made to the personal staffs of Ministers and office holders without the prior approval of the Special Minister of State. Funds are not available for the provision of short-term supplemental staff and assistance; for example, from secretarial agencies. 
Office equipment: Funds are not available for new arrangements for the purchase or hire of office equipment for Ministers, office holders or former office holders. 
Newspapers and periodicals: The provision of newspapers and periodicals at Government expense has been suspended in respect of members and senators, including Ministers and office holders, except in Party rooms at Parliament House. 
There is a good supply of that in the Country Party rooms. These emergency measures will be reviewed at frequent intervals by me and my colleague in the light of changing circumstances and practice. A close scrutiny will be kept, particularly in the area of members' travel. This is necessary because members of the Opposition have shown little regard for the financial position caused by their irresponsible actions in the Senate. Any abuse of the new travel restrictions may result in more stringent action being taken in the near future to conserve funds. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to inform the House that I accept the notice of motion given on 6 November by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as a censure motion for the purposes of standing order 1 10. I take it that the notice of motion will now be called on. 
-I move: 
That so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Werriwa moving a motion forthwith without notice. 
