1 would like to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Are the people of Australia being made the victims of a hoax in South Vietnam? Is the withdrawal of American troops from Vietnam and the proposed withdrawal of Australian troops a Trojan horse operation to deceive those who strongly oppose and protest against the war? Is it not a fact that contrary to the impression created by the withdrawal, military operations in Vietnam have been intensified - including the activities of Australian troops, resulting in the tragic increase in casualties which has just been announced? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In connection with the disaster to the oil tanker in Torres Strait, will the Minister carry out an investigation to see whether it is possible for oil tankers to use a route other than the channel inside the Great Barrier Reef? 
by leave - I welcome this agreement on the residence and employment of Yugoslav citizens in Australia. It indicates a new political awareness on the part of the Government which may flow into another area which is of great interest to migrants in Australia - «he area of naturalisation. I hope that this Agreement is an indication that from now on the Government will not use the political opinions or activities of migrants as a basis for refusal of naturalisation, as this has led to considerable intimidation of migrant communities throughout Australia. I trust that there will be no further imposition of what we have become used to as the approach of the Government. 
I hope that the former approach will not be applied to migrants who come from Yugoslavia, the first Communist country with which we have reached such an agreement, as any attempt to screen prospective migrants from that country on the basis of whether they are pro-Communist or antiCommunist would place them in an extremely difficult situation. There is no doubt that we will get a considerable number of people whose political opinions or activities will be concerned with policies of the left, but I trust that the Government will not impose upon them the same penalties in connection with naturalisation that have been imposed upon the people who have lived in Australia for 19 years and who, because of activities with left wing parties or involving left wing policies, have been refused naturalisation. 1 hope never again to meet the situation that I found in Darwin where a youngster said: 'Yesterday I was naturalised; today I can speak my mind.' Surely we can accept people of all political beliefs and religious- faiths as citizens of this country without any prejudice whatever. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to an answer to my question on Australian Vietnam casualties which was given by him last week and in which he stated that the casualties were 'an isolated incident which did regrettably cost lives'. Does he consider the latest casualties  announced to be a result of a further isolated incident? if so, how many such isolated incidents will be required to create a situation that will persuade the Government of the tragic futility of our Vietnam involvement? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. I refer to the court action in the Australian Capital Territory against a boy of 16 years for wearing a hate shirt bearing the words: 'I hate every cop in this town. A good cop is a dead one'. Has the Minister ascertained who sold the shirt? If so, does he intend to take the same action against the seller as was taken against the boy? 
After listening to the closing comments of the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  one could be led to believe that we have reached the Utopia that so many of us wish to reach. I believe that she is the most plausible of honourable senators opposite who have spoken in this debate, but it is a pity that the picture she has painted of the situation in Australia today does not accord with reality. The purpose of the Address-in-Reply debate is to afford honourable senators an opportunity to express their loyalty to the Crown. The expressions of loyalty by honourable senators opposite are a little puzzling in view of the events of 25th November 1969 when we were subjected to the greatest farce ever imposed upon the Parliament. On that day the Government, supporters of which now express loyalty to the Crown, was responsible for using the office of the Governor-General for a period of only 5 minutes to hold the shortest opening of Parliament on record. 
That is so. I recall that at the end of his 4-minute speech there was a burst of laughter in the Senate chamber. The situation was so ridiculous that even the Governor-General joined in the mirth. Honourable senators opposite who now express such loyalty to the Crown ought to remember that on 25th November last they used the Crown for a political manoeuvre, to extend the recess to become one of the longest recesses on record. 
It was one of the longest recesses on record. When  Senator Wright  sought to justify the action of the Government in having such a long recess, he stated that there had been seventeen such instances; but he had to go right back to 1903 to find evidence to justify the action of the Government which I believe to have been one of extreme expediency. If it was necessary to bring all of us here on 25th November, then at least the Government should have had the decency, as there was so much to be discussed and so much to be debated, to provide a programme of at least 2 weeks. But that was not done. 
What puzzles me further is that these people who profess loyalty to the Crown did not even give the Senate an opportunity to present an Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General. What happened to that Address-in-Reply? What did we do? Did we go to the Governor-General's residence, as is the custom? Did we gather around and say to him; 'Here is the AddressinReply'? Did we have the customary drink? We did not. When it is expedient to ignore the Crown the Government does so. But on this occasion it foisted upon the Governor-General a very lengthy inventory of propositions that it will endeavour to carry out in the forthcoming session. As 1 read the Governor-General's Speech I cannot get past the third and fourth paragraphs, which state: 
This year we commemorate the discovery of Eastern Australia by Captain Cook, two hundred years in the past. 
Now we turn our eyes to a future which, more Ulan ever before, is rich with the promise of achievement if we have the will to achieve. 
On the very day 1 read that 1 picked up a copy of the periodical called 'Nation'. lt contains an article headed 'Banks' Paradise Lost'. It comments in similar terms, lt reads: 
Two hundred years ago. Captain James Cook discovered the east coast of Australia. When he and his botanist.  Sir Joseph  Banks, saw the Kurnell Peninsula and Botany Bay. it must have looked like some sort of Garden of Eden. They walked among trees ten feet in circumference. There were groves of waving palms and wooded grasslands. The place was alive with cockatoos, parrots and a rich range of marsupials. And to show their respect for what they had seen they named it Botany Bay. 
One hundred years after Banks had named his Paradise, the peninsula was selected by the authorities as a future industrial site for obnoxious trades' - a decision which was never reversed. Today 'Botany' Bay is a cesspool of industrial filth and the peninsula an eroded wasteland. The Cape they named after Banks is bathed on one side by raw sewerage mid on the other by industrial effluent. 
The people who settled this continent, admittedly no-one would have expected them to have been the most cultured and intellectual of people, showed their contempt for it by committing genocide against the Tasmanian Aboriginal, probably only the vastness of the continent preventing them from doing likewise with his mainland counterpart and slaughtering the flora and fauna. 
So, let us not boast of achievement. In the last 200 years we have neglected those things which are most basic to the future of Australia. We are now faced with the situation that, if we neglect the problems of pollution, in another 30 years we shall have no land. Not in 200 years or in 100 years, but in 30 years, if we neglect the problems of air pollution, water pollution and industrial pollution of all types, we shall have no continent at all. Yet we have these glowing terms in the Speech presented on behalf of the Government by the GovernorGeneral. 
When we held that short meeting on 25th November there was one item in particular that needed to be debated, and that was the report of the Select Committee on Air Pollution, which for 15 months previously had surveyed the whole of Australia and had brought down a report. This matter of the pollution of our environment is one that is exercising the minds of many people not only in Australia but overseas. Yet on 25th November, according to the Government, there was not sufficient business to justify our staying here beyond the 1 day. 
We should be aware that the path that has been followed in the area about which I read from the article in 'Nation' has been followed in many parts of Australia. In Queensland in particular the environment is threatened in another way. The beauty of our environment is something with which we should be concerned. For many months in Queensland we have been fighting a campaign against the destruction of the beauty of the Great Barrier Reef. We have succeeded in our campaign to prevent drilling on the coastal areas adjacent to the Reef. The Federal Government, when it saw the opportunity and realised that it was under pressure, decided to ask the Queensland Government to pause in its programme of drilling on the Reef until such time as a committee was appointed to inquire into the dangers. I am pleased to see that the Government has seen fit to appoint a royal commission into this problem. I expect that the royal commission, once it is under way, will be given sufficient time, sufficient finance and sufficient authority to bring experts not only from all parts of Australia but also from overseas so that this problem of the future of the Barrier Reef can be decided, and decided correctly. 
It is to the discredit of the Queensland Government that it resisted this inquiry to the very end. It has resisted and is still resisting the proposition for a pause in drilling. Even at this moment the Premier of Queensland is insisting that drilling should take place in Repulse Bay. At this very moment the oil rig 'Navigator' is at a berth in the Brisbane River. For many weeks we sought to find out where the 'Navigator' was situated, where it was sailing and what it was to do. Only yesterday it quietly slipped into the Brisbane River, and how it is sitting alongside one of the wharves. I am of the opinion that the Queensland Government, led by the Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  still intends to drill in waters close to the Barrier Reef. I have said before - 1 have been criticised for making some sort of imputation against the Premier of a State - that, as long as the Premier of 
Queensland holds 500,000 shares in one of the companies that are interested in drilling off-shore, he is not in a position to deal impartially with the problem. 
One of the problems which this Government will have to face and which it has mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech is the proposition that the Commonwealth Government should control all off-shore areas. Some resistance has been displayed by the States. Even at this point a special meeting is to be held by the Attorneys-General stating that the States are opposed to this proposition. But while the State governments engage in frontier politics, whether they be in Queensland or Victoria, they can expect the Commonwealth Government, which is here, to defend the national interest. They can expect the Commonwealth Government to take steps to protect the national interest, especially when national assets are involved. In regard to the Barrier Reef, a very vital national asset is involved. I trust that the Government will carry out its intention by way of a royal commission and that it will determine just who has the legal responsibility for these vital areas off our coast. 
I would like to move on to a matter which has been brought up so many times in debates. We on the Opposition side of the chamber have discussed and fought many times the frustrating approach and the indifference of Government members in respect of our involvement in Vietnam. I suggest to the Government that it approach the Parliamentary Librarian and ask him to set aside a separate section for books on Vietnam which he will make readily available to members and supporters of the Government so that they may correct their abysmal ignorance of the history of our involvement in Vietnam. A range of books have been written on Vietnam going right back to before the year 1954, to the time when the Vietnamese people were fighting in resistance to the Japanese as were the Laotian people, the Cambodian people and all these people who had resistance forces fighting against the Japanese, thus diverting Japanese strength away from Australia. One could go right back to that time and consider the fact that these people fought on our side for so many years. One could go on to 1954 and read the agreements which we drew up, such as the Geneva Accords of 1954, which we breached because we were not prepared to hold elections in Vietnam because, as  President  Eisenhower said clearly: If you hold an election in Vietnam at this time the country will choose a Communist Government'. Because of this belief the Australian Government has denied to the people of Vietnam the right to choose their own government. The Americans went beyond this point at that stage and we assisted them later. We went beyond that point, because we interfered in the internal problems of Vietnam. We were the ones who were guilty of the destruction that has been wrought in every village in Vietnam, whether it be in South Vietnam or North Vietnam. 

 Senator Rae in his speech on the AddressinReply debate referred to civic action carried out by Australia to restore the damage done in Vietnam. But who brought about the damage that has been done in Vietnam? It is damage which we did in Vietnam. No matter how much the civic programmes are needed and no matter how immediate the need may be, they are made necessary by our own stupidity and our own futile involvement in Vietnam. The statement was made that one cannot trust the North Vietnamese because they have broken an agreement in Laos and they are invading the Plain of Jars in Laos. We were the first to break agreements. The North Vietnamese are breaking the 1962 agreement in Laos. It is Australia's responsibility as an enlightened nation, a highly educated nation, to make its voice heard in the United Nations as a leader of all the small nations throughout the world. Instead of taking a lead on behalf of small nations we are interfering in the internal policies and the internal actions of small nations to our north. According to the Government's defence programme which was placed before this House last night Australia is resisting and will continue to resist any move on behalf of local people to determine their own future. Let me point out that the Government's emphasis and fears are in the wrong direction. Let us have a look at Japan and at a recent statement by a Japanese professor who, in a television interview in the United Kingdom, stated that it might be necessary for Japan to undertake the same gunboat policy that America undertook in South America so that Japanese investment in South East Asia would be protected. Let the Government take care that it looks in the right direction because there is only one power in South East Asia which can affect the security of this nation, and that is Japan. One should realise that Japan has greater motive than any other power in this area, because the source of her raw materials is Australia. At the present time Japan does not need to take any action. She does not even need to protect her line of supplies. 
Exactly, she is getting them for nothing with the assistance of the governments of this country, every one of which is a Liberal Government. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  suggested that a corporation be set up to protect our equity in our riches there was a revolt within the Liberal Party. This idea was unheard of. It was an invasion of private enterprise and private initiative. Certain Liberal Party members were saying: 'Let the Japanese do what they wish'. Immediately anyone, whether it be the Government or the Opposition, suggests that we should take some action there is an outcry that we should not do so. Unless the Commonwealth takes some action in this field, and unless the Queensland Government, which . is prepared to give away for nothing the mineral resources of that State, takes some action, we will have nothing at all. 
At the present time all we are receiving from the exploitation of our mineral resources in Australia is the tax which is paid upon the workers' wages, plus the tax which is paid by any company which operates in Australia. But the commodity which is taken from the soil goes to Japan and other nations and develops their knowhow, their production lines and their skills. The only skill Australia is left with is how to dig the mineral out of the ground and how to carry it cheaply across its own railways to the ports and ship it away in foreign bottoms to the Japanese people and Japanese industry. 
Although the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply proposes many things, it neglects many also. Although a ministerial statement was made concerning aged Aboriginals I would have hoped there would have been some more positive action by the Federal Government, in regard to the problem of Aboriginals. Sooner or later the Government will have to face up to its responsibilities federally and take away from the States, because of their neglect, their rights to legislate or to act on behalf of the Aboriginals or Torres Strait Islanders. I have received a letter from Thursday Island which I would like to read to the Senate. It asks, in effect, that the Federal Government should provide on Thursday Island a small Commonwealth employment bureau. There are numerous arguments in favour of this proposal: It is closer to Weipa than to Cairns, and it can also be used as a recruiting office for the town. The local magistrate, who is a very busy man, is at present responsible for employment bureau activities on the island and he could not possibly be expected to do the job that is necessary. Thirdly - this is the point I am trying to make because this is what these people want wherever you go in Queensland and whatever settlement you visit, whether it be Thursday Island, or Bamaga, or Palm Island - these people are asking us to take the responsibility of looking after the island community's employment problems out of the hands of the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs. This is what these people want. They have been neglected for so long by the State departments, especially in Queensland, that they are looking for federal help. The Government has provided funds and has set up trust funds. But the action is so slow and the results so ineffective that I appeal to the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  to take some action, in this session of Parliament, to accept more responsibility to improve the conditions of these people. Responsibility was passed to the Government by the result of the referendum. 
I wish to deal now with the proposal to permit savings with credit unions to be recognised for homes savings grant purposes. I have asked questions about this matter. Several times I have argued the problem with the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin).  The Minister said that the credit unions were not eligible. 
I do not recall this, but I shall continue. 
If I recall correctly, it was a deadlock. It was before my time. When the Government threatened to hold up all other legislation, the Opposition was forced to capitulate under threat. In effect, it was straight-out blackmail. 
I remember an incident here when the then Leader of the Government in the Senate, the Present Prime Minister, during a division, marched across the floor and stated to the representatives of the credit union league who were in the gallery: 'Not one penny will you get from me while I have the authority'. That is exactly what he said. Now, after pressure has been brought to bear and after the  results  of the last election, the Government has decided, firstly, to allow deductions from the salaries of Commonwealth public servants - which is a great service to credit unions - and, secondly, to allow the savings of credit unions to be recognised under conditions which are rather startling. I have a letter from the Queensland Credit Union League which states that not one Queensland credit union will be eligible for assistance. I spoke to a representative from the New South Wales credit unions. I ask the Government to reconsider the provisions of the proposed legislation. Under the provisions of the proposed Bill, not one New South Wales credit union will be eligible. Credit unions do carry out lending for housing. They carry out lending in a very effective way. Credit unions lend money for land, for second mortgages, for deposit gaps and for the initial purchases which make a house into a home. Yet the Minister has decided that credit unions do not carry out lending for housing. They do. They do, in a very vital way. I refer to an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 6th March 1970. That article refers to statements made by the Minister. The article states: 
Ver.y few, if any, credit unions in Australia would be in a position to meet the conditions laid down by the Government. 
In other words, the legislation is a confidence trick and a very cruel hoax upon the credit unions and their members. The conditions of eligibility for credit unions are set out in the article. They are: 
A credit union must be approved by the Secretary of Housing. 
It must be making housing loans to its members. Housing loans will be loans made in connection with the acquisition of a home. 
The loans must be made at an effective rate of interest of nol more than 7J% a year on a reducing balance basis. 
At least 20% of a credit union's total lending in its most recent financial year must have been by way of housing loans. 
I could go on. 
I will do that, I have 10 minutes to spare. I had other important matters on which to speak, but I will go on because this is vital to all people. The article continues: 
At least 15% of its total lending, in that year, or about three-quarters of the 20%, must be in housing loans of not less than $7,000 and be repayable over a period of not less than 12 years. 
The total lending by a credit union by way of housing loans during a financial year must not be less than $50,000. 
So, the Government wipes out all credit unions. The Government is not considering the true spirit of the credit union movement. Credit unions assist the Government to provide homes for young people in that they provide the extra finance necessary to turn a house into a home, to make up the deposit gap and to provide for legal expenses. Before the Government introduces the Bill, I ask it to decide that this type of lending is part of lending for housing. I ask the Government to decide that the initial purchase of every article in the home, whether it be a refrigerator or a stove, is lending for housing purposes. If the Government makes this interpretation and gets away from this vicious proposition then many credit unions will be able to assist the Government to house many young people. 
In order to complete for the record  Senator Cant's  contribution to this debate I intend to read the paragraph of the report which he had commenced to read when his time expired. That portion of the report of the Committee of the Western Australian Museum is as follows: 
While the Committee has considerable sympathy for  Mr Hoffman  in the problems he has unwittingly stirred up in Leonora, it has none for the subsequent applicants for permission to mine the Weebo stone. Both prospecting areas were pegged after it was well known that there was considerable unrest among Aboriginals in the area and the Committee found it particularly difficult to understand why Constable Pense  did not attempt to ascertain for himself the feelings of a part of the community over which he had authority before he proceeded to take actions which were directed towards his personal self advancement 
I will now proceed with my own views on this debate. I should like to take up the issue of the Mona Mona Co-operative because to me it is evidence that the endeavours of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs, and the amount of money and effort which have been expended, are not having the effect that was intended. In other words, the expenditure is not percolating to the area of need. In the case of the Mona Mona Co-operative, some 18 months ago the first application was made for an amount of $25,000. In consultation with the group at Mona Mona  Senator Keeffe  and I suggested that the amount sought was overambitious and that in the interests of the Co-operative and to assist the Office it would be wise to cut it down to a more reasonable sum. So many months ago they applied for $8,000. They needed the money desperately at that time because they had undertaken considerable improvements of a property which incidentally was a lease of their own mission ground. 
I do not want to go into the story of how they were dispossessed by the State Government's manoeuvre and by the failure of the Church to supervise properly their welfare. At a later stage when the estimates for this Office are under discussion and scrutiny we will raise the matter again. In any case, members of the Mona Mona Cooperative, which consists of people who belong to the Mona Mona Mission but who had a desire to go back to the Mission ground, had carried out a tremendous amount of work on the property. In effect the work that they carried out was valued at $1,650. It included fencing, clearing the land and repairing the dips. Some $1,200, which was the cost involved, was raised from various members of the Co-operative. Not only that sum of money but also physical effort was expended in the area. 
The application was the subject of discussions with the Office. I took part in the discussions. We did our utmost to assist and to expedite this application. Admittedly there was a change in personnel in the Office but that is no excuse for the final decision. This arose out of an undertaking given by myself and other persons concerned with the Mona Mona Co-operative that we would help these people to meet their commitments if the loan were made. What was the result? The application was granted to the extent of only $5,000 subject to these people raising $1,800. That put them completely out of court. How can a group of poor Aboriginals isolated near Kuranda in north Queensland be expected to raise another $1,800 after raising $1,600 for improvements to their property? 
I wrote back to the Office complaining that this was not intended to be its attitude. I objected strongly to the provision that demanded the raising of $1,800. I finished my letter by stating clearly that it was up to the Office to decide whether to grant the loan or not. 1 am pleased to see that it has granted the loan, but it should have been granted many months ago when this Co-operative could have taken advantage of the availability of cheap breeding cattle in the area. Had this loan been granted when it should have been granted it would have been possible for the Co-operative to obtain breeding cattle at one-third of the cost it now has to pay. So, in effect, the delay by the Office of Aboriginal Affairs has imposed an extra expense upon the people. 
Let us look at the problem of delay. Let us try to find out why the Office of Aboriginal Affairs is failing and why we should have before us this letter, which 1 intend to read. The letter was written in answer to an application by a  Mr Nawia,  one of the councillors on Banks Island or Moa Island, as it is more commonly called. It is over the signature of  Dr Coombs  and it reads: 
Dear  Mr  Nawia 
Thank you for your letter of 12 October 1969 in which you requested a loan from the Capital Fund to establish yourself in the crayfishing industry. 1 am very interested in projects which can be shown to have sufficient potential to enable your people to become part of sound business enterprises. Accordingly I am having officers of the Capital Fund examine the ideas outlined in your letter and they will be writing to you within a few days detailing the information required and advising you on the best method of formulating your proposal. 
Please be assured that when all required information is known to the Capital Fund your application will be promptly assessed. 
That letter was written on 23rd October 1969.  Mr Nawia  informed me in Brisbane only a fortnight ago that since October he had received no further reply. In spite of the undertaking given by  Dr Coombs,  he has heard nothing further. To me, that is an indication of the delays that are occurring within the Office. 
The referendum clearly placed responsibility for Aboriginal welfare in the hands of the Federal Government. I believe that that was the intention of the people. There are good and sound reasons for the Federal Government accepting the full responsibility for the Aboriginal people and taking this responsibility away from the States because in effect initiatives which should be undertaken more urgently are passed from the Federal Government to the State Government and back again. In other words, the buck is being passed backwards and forwards. 
But if the Federal Government is to assume this responsibility it had better do a little better than it did in relation to the Mona Mona Co-operative and  Mr Nawia.  I met  Mr Nawia  under these circumstances: He came down all the way from Banks Island in Torres Strait to seek assistance from the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs so that the people could mine wolfram on the island. They were given the greatest run-around which has ever been given to half a dozen Torres Strait Islanders and which 1 have ever witnessed. The Department immediately thought: 'If there is wolfram on Banks Island there is great wealth here and the Department can gain from it'. So immediately obstacles were placed in front of these people. 
I have before me a letter that I intended to take up with the Office of Aboriginal Affairs in due course. 1 will take it up right now and we wil i see just how quickly the Office will act on behalf of half a dozen Torres Strait Islanders who at a considerable expenditure of time came from right up in the north down to Brisbane and sought accommodation with friends in order to put a case before the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Brisbane. They formed their own co-operative. The registration of the co-operative was held up for 6 months on the advice of the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland. It deliberately held up the legal process for 6 months until we questioned the Registrar of Co-operative Societies in Queensland. 
We asked what was the holdup and were advised in an indirect fashion that the holdup was at the request of the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs. The Registrar felt that there was no reason for holding up the registration, and within 7 days the co-operative was registered. The co-operative intends to take up, on behalf of all the people of Banks Island, the exploitation of mineral wealth. I suggested to these people that it would be useless to proceed further unless they had some assessment of the worth and depth of the mineral resources of Banks Island. So we have an application from the Torres Strait 
Mining Co-operative Ltd which will be passed on to the Office of Aboriginal Affairs today and which reads as follows:  1 wish, on behalf of the above Co-operative, to apply for assistance to assess the mineral potential of Banks Island (Moa Island). This Co-operative was registered as a Community Advancement Society at the Office of the Registrar in Brisbane on the 17th instant. 
The people of Banks Island, using primitive methods of pick and shovel, have been mining wolfram since 1914, but the production has necessarily been low. Our experience leads us to believe that a sufficient quantity of wolfram, and probably other minerals, exists on the Island to warrant commercial exploitation. However, before we can proceed to organise this, we need to have the advantage of a scientific survey. We require the assistance of the Commonwealth Bureau of Mineral Resources to assess the area, since it is our intention to approach the Department for Aboriginal Affairs for a loan from the Capital Fund to establish a mining industry on Banks Island under the control of the Co-operative. 
In other words, under the control of the people themselves. The letter, which was written to me, continues: 
We would be very grateful if you would use your good services with the Departments concerned to assist our project. 
And so it goes on. This is the first notification to both departments concerned of this application. We will see just how long it takes for these people to receive assistance. They certainly will not be helped by the Queensland Government which, since somebody else has taken the initiative, will do everything possible to hinder this development. lt wants the development of the island to be undertaken by some huge capitalist concern which will pay a royalty not to the people on the island or on the surrounding group of islands but to the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs where it will be completely absorbed in the cost of the Department. 
My purpose in standing here in the Senate is to expose in general terms events that have occurred. If  Senator Greenwood  wants to make the same investigation as I have made by going to the people concerned, I can give him their names and they will give him the results of the interviews and discussions that they had with  Mr Killoran,  the Director of the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland, on this very matter. 
I must say that the arrangements made by the Commonwealth Government in respect of Groote Eylandt are much more to the advantage of the people there than are the conditions laid down by the State governments in respect of Aboriginal people under their control. The Queensland Government is not even concerned about the Queensland people when it comes to the exploitation of coal or other mineral resources. I think it receives about 5c a ton royalty on the good coking coal that is sent to Japan. The royalty will be the responsibility of the State Government. All I am suggesting is that the royalty conditions should be at least as good as the conditions of the royalty paid in respect of the exploitation of minerals on Groote Eylandt. Obviously the honourable senator has missed the point. On the one hand the responsibility at Groote Eylandt, in a Commonwealth Territory, lies with the Federal Government; on the other hand, in Queensland it lies with the State Government. I point out to the Minister that the estimates of this Office and the expenditures made from both the established funds will be subjected to the closest scrutiny. No longer can the argument validly be used that the funds have been established for only 12 months and that they take some time to get under way. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer him to the proposed royal commission to inquire into oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef which was announced in the Governor-General's Speech. Can he explain the delay in the appointment of the commission? Will he tell the Senate who is responsible for the delay and whether it stems from a disagreement with the Queensland Government over the composition of the commission? 
I merely sought leave to make  a  statement on it. 
-I will seek that information and detail, but that is not the question I am asking.I am asking who gave the order and what was the reason. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Did the great damage caused by Cyclone Ada' in the Proserpine-SouthHarbour area of Queensland leave many people homeless and exposed to the elements for several days;  if so,  why was Army relief suddenly withdrawn from  the  area,  in  spite  of  the fact that the people of Cannon  Vale  and Airlie Beach were still isolated and in great need. 
Who gave the order forthe withdrawal of Army relief. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Army assistance to civil authorities in an emergency is given at the request of the appropriate State authority. In the case of 'Cyclone Ada' relief assistance, in terms of teroporary shelter, food, labour, transport, medical and emergency services, was made available on request. One soldier lost his life in the crossing of a flooded river during the progress of a relief convoy to the stricken area. 
The relief convoy was. dispatched without delay and on arrival set about providing rescue and relief services. This assistance was provided wherever it was requested and in the quantities and type required. It was some days before the situation was brought under control and the appropriate Stale authorities no longer required Army assistance. Airlie Beach was one area that required some special assistance and troops  and  equipment remained in that area for some 10 extra days. 
The troops were withdrawn only after their allotted tasks had been completed and the remaining tasks were well within the capability of Slate relief organisations. 
When Army assistance was no longer required clearance for withdrawal of the Army relief was given by the local State emergency committee representative. 
The Army has always been ready to assist civil authorities in civil emergencies and it has a proven record in such cases. However, it is the appropriate State authority, and not the Army, which has the responsibility for deciding what type of assistance is necessary in the particular circumstances. 
-I rang Canberra direct andI discovered that in the office of the Department of the Army in this capital city no-one was available and everyone was away at lunch. However, we cannot escape the fact that people were left in dire need in this area, that the Army withdrew when people were still in need. 
I ask again - and I have not yet received an answer to this question: Who gave the order for the withdrawal? Who agreed to the order for the withdrawal? Is the Minister for the Army prepared to tell me just what were the circumstances that caused the withdrawal at that moment of crisis? The people at Airlie Beach and Cannonvale were still cut off from Proserpine. The people at Airlie Beach and Cannonvale were still without a roof over their heads. There was complete devastation in the area, perhaps greater devastation than would have been caused by an earthquake. 
I insist on receiving an answer to my question: Who gave the order for the withdrawal? What was the reason for it? Was it to encourage local organisations to accept greater responsibility? If this was the reason, was it fair to the people in the area? If there had never before in Australia been an example of the need for a national disaster fund, the circumstances of this occurrence surely constitute such an example. The armed services should be able to give assistance to the full. If the Army or the other armed services cannot give such assistance without the co-operation of the local authorities, and without action being initiated by the local authorities, then the armed services should be given the power to act until the state of emergency has passed. In this case the Army withdrew when the state of emergency still existed. 
1 want to refer to an answer to a question which 1 received today from the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  as the representative in this chamber of the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock).  It concerns cyclone Ada which devastated the Proserpine and Shute Harbour area. Honourable senators are well aware that winds of up to 150 miles an hour cut through the area and caused great devastation not only to the island resorts but also to the inhabited areas of Shute Harbour, Airlie Beach, Cannonvale and right through the valley up to Proserpine. Those who have witnessed the devastation know that houses were completely destroyed. Homes were lifted and carried a great distance away. Many people, including pensioners and aged persons, were left homeless, especially in the Cannonvale area. 
As was indicated in the answer I received to my question, the Army did come to the assistance of the stricken area. Some 150 men went there and they showed great courage. As was indicated, one young soldier lost his life. These Army personnel went to the stricken area and gave great assistance especially in the town of Proserpine. However, although the cyclone occurred on the Sunday morning and the Army came quickly to give assistance, it was not until the Thursday morning - 4 days and 4 nights later - that Army equipment started to flow into the Airlie Beach and Cannonvale area which was still cut off from the main communication between north and south. For some reason, after the equipment arrived at Airlie Beach - some by helicopter and some by Army barge - just when the Army assistance was about to take effect the Army withdrew. It is of no use to say that the Army did not withdraw becauseI was there in a briefing room when a major gave the order for the Army to withdraw, leaving behind only 10 men. Of the 120-odd men who were available in the area to give assistance to the people only 10 remained in spite of the fact that a considerable amount of equipment had arrived. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to a statement by  Mr Freeth,  our new Ambassador to Japan, in which he stated among other things that Japan should rearm? Is it now government policy in this way to encourage Japan to rearm and to establish a military presence in Asia? Does the Government support Japanese leaders who stated recently that Japan needs to rearm to protect the source of its raw materials? As Australia is the main supplier of raw materials to Japan, does the Government hopefully anticipate that Japan will become our military protector if and when the United States of America withdraws from Vietnam? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As his reply to my previous question on Japanese rearmament is somewhat at variance with the statements made by the Ambassador to Japan and by the Minister for External Affairs, can he be more explicit and explain exactly the Government's attitude to Japanese military resurgence? 
I would like to ask the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities a further question on the Barrier Reef. Can we expect, as a result of his overseas trip a greater initiative by his Department to protect the Great Barrier Reef as a tourist attraction? In particular, is he or his Department prepared to make a submission to the proposed royal commission that it is in the best interests of Australia to have a tourist attraction and not an oil industry in this area? 
In the short time that remainsI would like to point out that if nothing were obvious before this debate it is obvious after the speech of the previous  speaker Senator Sim,  that extra facilities ought to be granted for members of this Parliament to visit New Guinea more frequently. If I recall correctly, 12 months ago I asked the Minister who represents the Minister for External Territories in this place why increased facilities were not provided for honourable members and honourable senators to visit New Guinea. It cannot be a matter of cost. If it is a matter of costI would like to point out to the Minister that the fare from Canberra to Port Moresby is $117.40. The fare from Canberra to Thursday Island is $136.40. At any timeI wishI can go to Thursday Island. As a matter of fact, I have been there twice. I will be there again in a fortnight's time. I have become familiar with the area, its problems, and the problems of the Torres Strait Islanders. 
Debate interrupted. 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. 1 refer to  a statement made by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  wherein he stated that price rises in petrol in Australia would be minimal. I ask: Is it not a fact that the penalty on imported petrol is to be raised from 2.5c to 7.5c per barrel? Will this not result in a rise in the price of Australian petrol which will be much more than minimal as was stated by the Minister? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
In connection with the disaster to the oil tanker in Torres Strait, will the Minister carry out an investigation to see whether it is possible for oil tankers to use a route other than the one they are using inside the channel of the Great BarrierReef area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Who sold the shirt referred to in a court action in the Australian Capital Territory against a boy aged 16 for wearing the 'hate shirt' which read 'I hate every cop in this town. A good cop is a dead one'. 
Does the Minister intend to take the same action against the person who sold the shirt as was taken against the boy. 
What a gutless crew the Government supporters are. At 1 o'clock this morning they thought they ended their attack upon members of the Australian Labor Party. When the 2 young neo-Fascists finished speaking they then scuttled for cover and not one other senator from that side of the chamber has spoken to support a campaign which is one not only of violence but actually of war. Why are not Government supporters, particularly those who have spoken, honest enough to declare their full intention to take heed of the silent minority of Facists, racists and warmongers? If they were honest enough in their intention they would like to heed this silent minority and carry the war in Vietnam to what they consider to be its logical end - a military victory. Why do they not come out and state their intentions? Why just oppose those who work and fight for peace? Why do they not come out and say: We want to pulverise this little nation, Vietnam, into the dust and claim a victory for the might of our armed forces'? Why do they not say that? It is because they have not the courage to do so. All they have the courage to do is to get up in this chamber in the early hours of the morning - they are not game to initiate a debate like this during the normal daylight hours - and attack those who seek tobring about a cessation of the hostilities in Vietnam. 
Just let the fighting cease. Surely that is a reasonable request by any logical and reasonable person in this country. Is it not a fair proposition to suggest thatthe fighting should cease and that talking should start in earnest? Why do we not goright back to 1954? 
Never mind about that; you have betrayed the Vietnamese people many times - not just once but 3 times. The purpose of the Moratorium is to seek an end to violence, but the purpose of the Government is to turn the Moratorium into a violent act. This is obvious from the expressions of Government supporters here tonight. They have tried to stir feelings of violence in the minds of people, they have tried to panic people so that a situation will result in which there will be violence in the streets of the cities. All I say to honourable senators opposite is this: Come off it! Just appreciate that what we have been doing in Vietnam is brutalising society. We brutalise our young men. We brutalise the whole of the nation of Vietnam. Horror upon horror; we have mentioned it time and time again. We see illustrations of people killed and mutilated. Who cares who was responsible? Peace could have been achieved in Vietnam if the Australian Government had taken a firm stand at the time of the peace talks in Paris because  Mr Averell  Harriman showed clearly in an article is the 'Canberra Times' of 6th March 1970 that  President  Thieu of South Vietnam ruined the Paris peace talks. The article is headed: 'Harriman Attack. Thieu "ruined the Paris talks".' I seek leave to have the article incorporated in Hansard. 
THE  PRESIDENT-  Is leave granted? 
The article states: 

 Mr Averall Harriman, former chief US delegate to the Paris peace talks, said yesterday that  President  Thieu of South Vietnam had 'pulled the rug out from negotiations' several times, the Associated Press reported. 

 Mr Harriman also told250 people at the Woodrow Wilson school of public and international affairs at Princeton University that  President  Thieu did not represent the people of South Vietnam and that his regime was 'repressive and suppressive' to anyone who suggested a negotiated settlement or coalition government. 
He said 'Thieu has pulled the rug out from negotiations on several occasions because he didn't like the way they were going. Our best negotiations were private but Thieu simply said he didn't want to talk privately. So no substantial progress could be made'. 

 Mr Harriman led the US delegation in Paris from its inception in early 1968 through the changeover of administrations following  President  Nixon's election that year. 
The former ambassador said the South Vietnamese President 'wants to win the war and have the US fight for him and keep him in office'. 

 Mr Harriman said this was not the desire of the people of South Vietnam 'who voted overwhelmingly for peace candidates' in the election won by  President  Thieu. 
There is no evidence that Thieu represents the people. He's a minority ruler and his regime has been repressive and suppressive to anyone who has proposed a negotiated peace or a coalition government',  Mr Harriman  said. 
Then there is a further article containing a statement by  Mr Cyrus  Vance, the former United States negotiator at the Paris peace talks. The article states: 

 Mr Cyrus Vance, former US negotiator at the Paris peace talks, said last night that  President  Nixon's programme of Vietnamisation made a settlement of the war in Vietnam too dependent on what the enemy does, the New York Times News Service reported. 

 Mr Vance proposed a three.step schedule for effecting a peace. 
First, he said, the US should terminate all search-and-destroy missions and 'very substantially' reduce B-52 aircraft action. 
The article refers to an immediate ceasefire. This is what we are proposing in the Moratorium - an immediate ceasefire. The article continues: 
Second, the US should call for an immediate ceasefire. 
Third, the US should announce its schedule for the removal of all troops within 'say, 12 months' after the ceasefire. 
That is the American attitude. That is the expression of opinion by American negotiators at the Paris peace talks. At this stage in Australia we are endeavouring to gather together and to consolidate the forces that are working for peace in Vietnam. What do we see? We see a concerted attack by the responsible Government of this country against any peace move in Vietnam. The Government endeavours by every action possible to destroy the Moratorium. But let us view it this way: whatever the Government does, whatever charges it makes, let it appreciate that the more it charges and the more it attacks, the more the Moratorium will be supported because every time the Government speaks it exposes its attitude. That is an attitude which I have declared previously to be neo-Fascist and I so declare it again. 
Question put: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport 1 refer to an answer I received to a question on notice concerning the passage of oil tankers within the Barrier Reef area. The answer read as follows - 
I want to enlarge on the theme raised by  Senator Mulvihill.  I think that tonight's episode, which led to the expulsion of one of our members, was the direct result of an irresponsible action on the part of  Senator Greenwood. 
1 know that he is not here at present.  Senator Greenwood  adopted an irresponsible approach tonight. Surely he made his point last night. The long debate that ensued answered him. We hoped that, by forcing the debate to run for such a long period, a similar situation would not occur again. It was obvious that tonight  Senator Greenwood  was determined to repeat the episode. If we had shown any sensibility we would not have answered him at all. Honourable senators must appreciate that we were here till 3 o'clock this morning. Many of us have had a long day either by reason of attendance in the Senate or by doing committee work. We were busy right up until 10.30 p.m. It must be appreciated that the nerves of honourable senators have been stretched beyond the normal point of endurance. Yet it was a deliberate action by an honourable senator on the Government side that led to a repetition of the debate last night. 
If the honourable senator wants to play it that way, I will oblige him. We can talk all night. Last night the sheer provocation of 2 Government members and a member of the Democratic Labor Party led to the debate lasting until 3 o'clock this morning.  Senator Greenwood,  with the concurrence of the Government and of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  tonight was responsible for a repetition of last night's episode. If the Government desires that from now until the Moratorium we should continue debating the subject during the adjournment debate - and continue until the early hours of the morning - I for one am prepared to stay here. I for one am prepared to oppose the motion, when it is moved, for the adjournment of the Senate. I am prepared to talk in order to force Ihe Government to apply the gag. The Government might have to face this situation night after night. The gag will have to be applied by someone. In the early hours of this morning I sought leave to include something in Hansard. If it is intended to debate this subject in the early hours of the morning I shall try to enlighten members of the Government by reading to them extracts from books that they should have read. The first extract is chapter 9 of 'From Yalta to Vietnam' written by David Horowitz, it ought to be read by everyone here, especially members on the Government side. I seek leave to have this chapter incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - ls leave granted? 
An honourable senator - No. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Leave is not granted. 
Honourable senators can see just what situation could arise. I could read the 25 pages of that chapter in the book, but I do not intend to do so. 
It would take at least 2 hours to read this chapter. 
It would take at least 2 hours to read the chapter because the print is small and because at the bottom of each page there are footnotes which ought to bc read so that the proper sense of the page can be obtained. I would read that to enlighten those who have nes'er bothered to read the history of the intervention in Vietnam. 
The book is written by Horowitz. If members of the Government intend to provoke us night after night to force a debate on the  Moratorium,  I think we ought to match them. 1 do not think that this kind of exercise should continue in this way. The best way to clear the air would be to have a debate on the Moratorium. The Government could introduce the statement made by the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  and we could have a debate in the normal hours for debate. We could clear the air in that fashion. If night after night  Senator Greenwood  adopts the tactic of raising this matter we will retaliate in kind. 
No. I sought leave to have that chapter incorporated in Hansard. Leave was refused. I do not intend to read it. Next time 1 speak at this hour on this subject I shall read a chapter of a book which questions the legality of the Vietnam war. The name of the book is 'The Vietnam War and International Law'. The book has 150 pages. The article, Legal Aspects of the Vietnam Situation', written by Quincy Wright, questions our involvement in Vietnam. If honourable senators opposite are prepared (o put up with my reading that book, by all means they should encourage  Senator Greenwood  to start again next Tuesday evening. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.27 a.m. (Friday) 
I would like to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories. When will the Senate receive details of the insurrection on Bougainville? Will the Minister explain why it was necessary for such drastic physical action to be taken by the police? 
1 would like to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Government protested ro General Lon Nol of Cambodia concerning the massacre of Vietnamese? If not. does the Government intend to lodge such a protest? Will the Minister assure the Senate that until such massacres cease no appeal by Cambodia for arms or other assistance will be considered? 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate is further to the first question 1 asked of him. Did the Minister for External Affairs indicate in Saigon that Australia may send a goodwill delegation to Cambodia? is it the Government's intention to send a goodwill mission even if such an act might give the impression here and overseas that Australia supports the actions of the Lon Nol regime? 
May I try again? I should like to direct a question without notice to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has his attention been directed to the trial of 21 students in Saigon and their apparent torture? Is he aware of the details of the case and of the students' protests which led to their arrest? Does the Minister still insist that the Thieu Government is and should be representative of the people of South Vietnam? 
I  should like to ask a further question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Government been aware that the American Embassy in Laos has been used as the headquarters for directing the bombing of northern Laos? If not, how has it happened that the United States has carried on a secret operation for  4  years without the knowledge of the Australian Government and the Australian Parliament? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. When replying to  Senator Greenwood  on the subject of the wearing of Vietnam Moratorium Campaign badges by school pupils, will he refer to the New South Wales Department of Education which has indicated that it will permit the wearing of Moratorium badges by pupils in high schools in that State? 
1 wish to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. He should be able to answer it because it comes within the terms of the previous question. Is it a fact that the Government has set up a committee consisting of  Mr Fairbairn, Mr Hamer, Senator Greenwood  and  Mr Robinson  to investigate the origin of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign in Australia? If so, will he ask this committee to seek the advice of the Opposition in order that it can get a clear picture of the origin of the Moratorium and of the involvement of the Opposition in the Moratorium, which is directed towards peace in Vietnam and peace generally? 
 I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Was the American drive into Cambodia made with the prior knowledge of the Australian Government? Were prior consultations held between the Australian Government and the United States Government? If so, when? Does the Australian Government agree with this extension of the conflict into Cambodia which further threatens world peace? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that Japan and Australia have reached an agreement on a 3-point plan on Cambodia? Does this plan propose a withdrawal of all foreign troops from Cambodia, a reactivation of the International Commission and supervision by the United Nations? If so, is the Government prepared to extend this plan to cover the conflict in South Vietnam? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs nd Excise, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state that petrol price rises in Australia would be minimal. 
Is it a fact that the penalty on imported petrol is to be raised from  2.5  cents to 7.5 cents per barrel, and that this will result in a price rise which will be far more than minimal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
In view of the answer received to a previous question that 'investigations have been carried out, and it is possible for tankers to use routes that avoid the Great Barrier Reef area, to a large extent. However, such routes generally involve considerable extra steaming distances and are therefore commercially unattractive', are the commercial interests of oil companies to be placed before the future interests of the Great Barrier Reef; if not, what action does the Government intend to take to protect the Great Barrier Reef. 
I seek to take the opportunity which other honourable senators have taken on the first reading of the Supply Bill to speak on matters which are relevant not to the Bill but to the debate which has taken place this afternoon and to the comments, in particular, of  Senator Webster. Senator Webster  stated that  Senator Cavanagh  and those who supported his viewpoint were guilty of subversion. Let me state quite clearly to  Senator Webster  thatI agree with what  Senator Cavanagh  has said and I agree with his attitude. If that is so, according to  Senator Webster  I am guilty of subversion. 
Let us carefully calculate the basis upon which  Senator Webster  makes his statement. Obviously he feels a certain amount of discontent because of the tremendous demonstration against the Government's action in South East Asia. I speak now not of South Vietnam but of South East Asia, because we have extended the conflict beyond the borders of South Vietnam. 
The Government has. 
This Government has extended the conflict. Its decision in the first place was incorrect. So far as 1 am concerned, from listening to what people have bad lo say, 1 say without any qualification whatsoever: You are a bunch of unmitigated hypocrites. 
I beg your pardon. May 1 point out to  Senator Webster  that the carrying of the Vietcong flag, which he considers to be subversive and a crime, is not a subversive aci? If it were subversion and a crime it would be within the power of one of his own Ministers to take action. He must know in his heart - and so must Ministers know - that this is no illegal act. This is no subversive act because we have never indicated that we were in a state of war with North Vietnam or with the Vietcong. British ships carrying the British flag go into the port of Haiphong in North Vietnam. They supply goods to North Vietnam. Does the honourable senator suggest that this is a subversive act? Is this a subversive act on the part of  Her  Majesty's Government? It is not, because we are not at war with Vietnam and we do not have the courage to declare that we are at war because we know that the war in Vietnam is an illegal war and an illegal intervention on our part. 
What right has the honourable senator to state that an act by a student in carrying a Vietcong flag is one that ought to attract the attention of the Government? He knows that the Government cannot take any action. It has no power under which it can take action. All that he can do, as has been done by other members of the Government, is to cast aspersions on those who support peace and perhaps support North Vietnam's attitude. They can cast aspersions on such people, but they do not have the courage to take any action and are determined not to take any action. 
If one looks at the situation carefully, no matter what the Government does, it shows a double standard. I pointed out here, by way of question, that we have a double standard which imposes a sentence of 2 years without parole on a lad who refuses to kill and a sentence of 3 years with parole on the young man who murders, by strangulation and by mutilation, a young person. In this community we have a double standard. 1 have pointed out that we have traded not only with Communist China but also with North Vietnam. I have pointed out that when we ceased to trade direct with North Vietnam our goods went to Communist China and from Communist China into North Vietnam. Time and time again I have pointed out the hypocrisy of the acts of this Government. I refuse to take offence when  Senator Webster  uses against me the term subversion'. 
Has the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities had an opportunity to consider my suggestion that his Department give evidence before the royal commission appointed to investigate drilling on the Great Barrier Reef? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs,  upon  notice: 
Have Australia and Japan reached agreement on a three point plan on Cambodia. 
Does any such plan propose the withdrawal of all foreign troops from Cambodia, a reactivation of the International Commission and supervision by the United Nations; if so, is the Government prepared to extend the plan to cover the conflict in South Vietnam. 
1  support the amendment and in doing so  1  should like briefly to indicate that the person who originally drew up this legislation had no real conception of a credit union and its function. But to move quickly to the matter before the Senate, the Government has in this clause realised that the original legislation was restrictive and excluded practically all credit unions in Australia from the scheme. Reducing the amount of a prescribed housing loan from  $7,000  to  $5,000  is an improvement, but it sti!l excludes many credit unions which exist under State legislation, lt excludes them not by reason of the amount only but by reason of ability and depth of finance, lt excludes many of the very small credit unions, lt must be appreciated that it is the small credit union which forms the backbone of the credit union movement. lt is the small credit union in a parish of  200  or  300  people, the small credit union at the place of employment of  200  people, which has limited finance which the employees themselves contribute and which has limited personnel and staff. In fact, all the work that is done for the small credit union is undertaken on a voluntary basis. The small credit union does a tremendous amount of work to assist young people, in particular, to buy homes. 
In fact, the small credit union is responsible for enabling the Government's legislation to function. Through the small credit union it is possible for people to take advantage of the  $8,000  which the Government provides under this legislation with which to purchase a home, lt is the small credit union which enables a purchaser to find the amount of money to cover the deposit gap so that he can purchase a home. Not only this; once the home is purchased the small credit union enables young people to furnish a home, lt provides them with very cheap credit, so (bat the furniture is obtained at a reduced price. The small credit union does a tremendous amount of work. I believe that the Government has not really appreciated the amount of work which these small credit unions do and the amount of assistance which they provide. They request that the amount of the prescribed housing loan should be smaller than that presently proposed. Normally speaking there is a deposit gap of  $1,000, $2,000, $3,000  or perhaps  $4,000.  Credit unions often lend  $1,000  or  $2,000  in order to allow somebody to clear a mortgage on a block of land so that the title of the land is free and a house can be erected on it. 
But there is another reason why credit unions want the amount of the prescribed housing loan reduced and a shorter term provided for repayment of the loan. The shorter the term for which credit unions can lend, the better it is for the members of the credit unions because money becomes available for lending to other members within the group. This is one of the reasons why they want a smaller sum, say,  $3,000  rather than  $5,000,  as the amount of the prescribed housing loan, and a shorter term for the repayment of the loan. They request a shorter term so that money will be quickly recoverable in order to be lent again and other couples can take advantage of the money available. I am strongly suggesting to the Government that having accepted the principle that  $7,000  is too much for a prescribed housing loan it should not stop at  $5,000.  Why does not the Government accept the tremendous amount of work that credit unions, especially the smaller ones, are doing and reduce the amount of the prescribed housing loan to  $3,000?  Later we will possibly move other amendments which concern other aspects of the legislation. I appeal to those who support, in principle, the reduction in the amount of the prescribed housing loan  from §7,000 to $5,000 to consider reducing it further to $3,000 in order to assist the small credit unions. Let us not make of the credit union movement what we have made of various medical benefit funds and other housing societies; do not let us make them monolithic. Let us try to keep them as they are - small, mutual type societies which work on a voluntary basis to assist their various members, especially young people in the community. 
It is obvious not only that the Government is unappreciative of what the credit union movement is and how it operates but also that  Senator Little  of the Australian Democratic Labor Party is unappreciative because if he were a member of a credit union and he was interviewing someone about a loan of this type the last thing he would advise the person to do would be to borrow over a period of 1 2 years. Obviously he does not know how the credit unions operate. They give a higher rate of interest on deposits to assist their members. In fact, many rates are as high as 6% and some are a little more on deposits. But the amount of interest that the credit unions have to charge on their loans is, as has been stated previously in this chamber, lc for each $1 for each month, which is 6% flat or 12% simple interest. 
It has been argued before in this chamber that that rate of interest is too high. It is too high on housing. However these days young people are being forced to borrow from fringe banking organisations, from financial organisations or from hire purchase firms to make up the gap which occurs between what the Government gives and what the youngsters have to obtain and the rate of interest has to be compared not with bank interest or present housing society interest, which is about 8i% on a 6-monthly basis, but with the interest which they will be charged by the fringe banking organisations which are taking these young people for a ride. The fringe banking organisations about which I speak charge interest at the rate of 9% flat, in some cases 10% flat, and in some cases 14% flat. Let me put that in simple interest. Nine percent flat is 18% simple interest, and 10% is 20% simple interest. Some of these firms, battening on the needs of the youngsters, are charging as much as 28% simple interest. It is in this field that the credit unions assist. 
You obviously do not know it because you would not suggest to a young person that he borrow $5,000, virtually on a second mortgage, at 12% interest. 
Listen, if young people were to accept a loan of $5,000 for a period of 12 years they would be paying $3,600 in interest. The purpose of the credit union is not to do this. The purpose of a credit union is to give amounts of money for short terms to enable- 
No, they actually do assist in putting a person into a home. 1 am not concerned about the Government. It gives 8,000 miserable dollars for home building these days. Eight thousand dollars would build a home of only 8 squares. Eight squares is not a home. It is a ridiculous size. 
I know. I will come back to the Bill. The very policy of the Government has made it necessary for the establishment of credit unions and the banding together of people to save together to be able to assist one another to take advantage of finance which is available. The Government ought to recognise this. It is done on a voluntary basis throughout the land. Many people give many hours financing the policy of this Government to get young people into homes. Yet we hear someone here who suggests that we make the minimum loan $5,000 over a minimum period of 12 years which is a ridiculous period of time at an exorbitant rate of interest in this particular direction. Obviously the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the Government do not know what the purpose of a credit union is. If they did- 
Wait a minute. If the Government did know, it would do everything possible to assist credit unions, rather than hinder them. The Australian Labor Party wants the Government to go further than this particular amendment. I did not range further down. The other portion which requires that credit unions lend a minimum of $50,000 in home lending is to be considered later. I have not yet got to that stage. Here is another imposition which makes it patently impossible for the credit union movement, or the bulk of the credit unions, to take advantage of this scheme. I am merely asking the Government to recognise what home building is. It is not just a matter of putting up an 8 square home with 4 walls. It is putting up a home which will cost somewhere near $15,000. It is putting the furniture into that home. It is financing the home. Although the credit union movement charges this high rate of interest it has all sorts of precautions built into its loans even at this high rate of interest. There are all sorts of distress benefits. The credit unions do not impose any burden upon those who, for some reason such as illness, unemployment, or even strikes are unable to meet their commitments. If a person dies the loan is repaid. If the person is ill a moratorium operates. The credit union, by its nature, by its mutuality, assists. It is a fine and excellent movement. Yet for some reason the Government refuses to accept it. Although the Government has now accepted in principle that those restrictions which it placed are too high, and it has come back to a loan of $5,000 repayable over a period of 12 years, we point out that this is too high. The loan figure should drop back to §3,000 and we should have a look at it again. 
The so-called champion of the credit unions, the DLP, is prepared to go along with the Government. I know how it deadlocked this matter last year, and then it went to water. The DLP is no more a supporter of the credit unions than are some of the Government supporters who have not heard the term before. They think that the credit union is creeping socialism and it ought to be opposed. I heard one Government member say: 'We cannot support these credit unions. They support the Labor Party.' How wrong they are. If one looks at the credit un.:on movement one sees that its greatest strength is in that particular section which doss not support the Labor Party. If the Government would only wake up to itself it would give the credit union movement as much support as it possibly could. But it does not. It is afraid of the credit union movement. Charges have been made that at the instigation of the private banking systems the Government placed a limitation on the credit union movement. 
I believe this because for the first time the credit union movement started to appear on the list of financing bodies which is given in statistics. For the first time at the bottom of that list of financing institutions appeared the credit union movement. The private banking business does not like this. They are, incidentally, using ordinary people's money and giving them  3i%  interest. They transfer the money to their special fringe organisations and they lend it to the ordinary people who want to build a home at 18% simple interest, and sometimes 20% or 22%. as I have just stated. 
I believe the Government ought to be ashamed of itself for not recognising a need and not recognising how these organisations operate. 
I bow to the inevitable, particularly since the Australian Democratic Labor Party has indicated its attitude so unequivocally, but let it not disillusion anyone. The DLP, by its support of the Government, has indicated that it does not understand or support the credit union movement. This is perfectly clear. The talk of members of the DLP about the result of postponement or delay in the introduction of the legislation indicates that at this stage they are not prepared to fight a battle on behalf of the credit union movement. The  $50,000  barrier - and I call it a barrier - which has been placed on credit unions is not a condition that is imposed for  1  year. It requires the making of  10  loans of  $5,000  each for  1  year. But it must be realised that credit unions must maintain this rate for,  1, 2,  3, 4 or  5  years. A credit union has to grow at a rate which will enable it to lend  $250,000  in  5  years. That is beyond the ability of the small credit unions. I say again that the Government's action, together with that of the DLP, denies justice to the small credit unions that are providing a service to the community. 
We would be prepared to accept the proposition which was indicated in passing by  Senator Little,  that perhaps this clause ought to indicate that 15%  of the amount of money held by credit unions should be channelled in the direction of housing or prescribed housing. If this were done, having made credit unions eligible to accept the savings of youngsters, the credit unions would grow rapidly to the stage at which they would be lending  $50,000  a year for housing. But by imposing this  $50,000  barrier, it excludes the smaller credit unions and, what is more, it prohibits them from ever reaching the position where they would be able to lend  $50,000  a year for housing. lt is no use honourable senators leaving this chamber without knowing clearly that this is the case. 
Our amendment seeks to delete the clauses which impose the  $50,000  barrier. By doing this  1  think we would show that we properly appreciate the role of credit unions in our society, and it would place no limitation on them, if you invest in a credit union you will find that its lending is directed in some means towards the home. I have said this before and  1  say it again: Funds of credit unions are not used for the establishment of businesses or profit making concerns. They are directed towards improving the economic position of the ordinary person. Ninety per cent of a credit union's lending is directed towards making a home. Therefore, I do not think it is even necessary at this stage to indicate that some proportion of a credit union's money ought to be directed in this specific way. Nevertheless,  1  should have thought that the members of the DLP would have proposed another amendment which undoubtedly we would have supported. This shows, perhaps, their lack of sincerity in this direction. They have merely assisted the Government in spite of their previous intention to support the credit union movement. Their claim of support of the movement has been revealed here tonight as being of no account. 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia) express my support for the request for the amendment and to give my opinion on what the Government seeks to do by clause 5. As we know, clause 5 seeks to insert section 4B. The proposed section 4B.(4.) (a) (iii) will have no application at all to the big credit union 20% of whose lending to its members in the previous year exceeded $50,000. In the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill it was said that there were many credit unions whose 20% of tendings to their members was in excess of $50,000. Under proposed section 4b (4.) (a) (i) not less than 20% of the total amount that was lent by the credit union to its members during the last financial year of the credit union that ended before the date of the application for approval had to be lent by way of housing loans. Sub-paragraph (iii) will have no application to those credit unions. Those whose 20% of lendings did not exceed $50,000 will have to lend in excess of 20% for housing. Sub-paragraph (iii) will apply to housing loans and not to prescribed housing loans. No strings are attached to it. The smaller credit unions whose 20% of tendings did not exceed $50,000 will have to lend a bigger percentage to qualify under the scheme. This has no purpose. It adds no value to the Government's purpose of ensuring that money is lent for housing, to encourage people to save for their first matrimonial home and adds no greater value by ensuring that more money is made available for homes. Again it is an attack upon the small credit unions. No matter what percentage they lend or how many loans they make, the small credit unions cannot participate under this scheme. I think that must be accepted. 
These sub-paragraphs which are sought to be deleted have no purpose other than keeping out of the scheme the small credit unions. The Australian Labor Party thinks the credit unions play an essential part in contributing to home building and that they should be in the scheme. Therefore we seek deletion of the minimum of $50,000. Apparently the Democratic Labor Party senators agree with us on that, but they say that the other benefits ofthe scheme are not worth delaying for the purpose of achieving this principle. We think we owe an obligation to the small credit unions. The DLP is entitled to its opinion. If the Senate accepted the amendment, the Bill in its amended form would go to the House of Representatives which would decide whether to accept or reject the amendment.  Senator Little  seemed to think that, because the House of Representatives rejected similar amendments before, it would reject this amendment and send the Bill back here. He seemed to think that now is the time to consider whether we should sacrifice the Bill by insisting on this principle for the protection of small credit unions. At present, whatever the other benefits of the Bill are, we think that it could be delayed a further 3 weeks so that small credit unions, which are deliberately excluded by the subparagraphs, which are sought to be deleted, can be included in the scheme. 
Question put: 
That the requests  (Senator Poke's)  be agreed to. 
I rise to refer briefly to a comment made by  Senator Greenwood  that the statement I made that our intervention in Vietnam was illegal was wrongly based and inaccurate and that it in some ways reflected on my knowledge of the subject. I wish to refer him to a book which he, as one of the legal profession and one who seems to have achieved some qualification in that direction, ought to read before he makes wild statements concerning the legality of the intervention in Vietnam. I suggest that  Senator Young  read it also 
It is not printed in red ink. The name of the book is 'Vietnam and International Law'. The foreword states: 
The Lawyers Committee on American Policy Towards Vietnam was formed after the Department of State in March 1965 issued its memorandum, 'Legal Basis for United States Actions Against North Vietnam.' The Committee prepared a Memorandum of Law entitled, 'American Policy Vis-a-Vis Vietnam,' which, as far as we are aware, constituted one of the first scrutinies of the American policy from the viewpoint of its international and constitutional legality. The Memorandum was inserted into the Congressional Record . . . 
If  Senator Greenwood  continues in this vein it ought to be included in the record here also - 
. by  Senator Wayne  Morse (Oregon) and Ernest Gruening (Alaska) on September 23, 1965 and was endorsed by eminent figures in the academic community. 
Now, just in case honourable senators still think that this book was written in red ink - the inference by  Senator Young  was that it was a Communist publication - let us look at the eminent figures who constituted the Committee. 
The preface is by Richard A. Falk. 
The book is entitled 'Vietnam and International Law'. The sub-title is 'The Illegality of United States Military Involvement', and tha editor is John H. E. Fried. It is the work of a consultative council of lawyers committee on American policy towards Vietnam. There is a series of articles by a number of prominent lawyers. I was about to read the names of these people so that they can be included in the record. 
No, there are not. They would all have qualifications superior to those of  Senator Greenwood  and superior to those of any of the people whom the Government set up as experts on this matter. But it is of no use for the Government to continue to infer that our intervention in Vietnam is legal under international law. We have endeavoured to justify it and it cannot be justified. The  membership of the committee was as follows: 
Richard A. Falk,  Chairman.  LL.B. (Yale). J.S.D. (Harvard). Albert O. Milbank Prof, of Internat'l Law and Practice, Princeton Univ. Has served as consultant to U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, World Law Fund, etc. - Member, Exec. Council, Am. Society of Internal Law; member, Editorial Board, 'Am. Journal of Internat'l Law'. Co-Editor, 'World Polities'. Assoc. Editor, 'Journal of Conflict Resolution'. Counsel. Ethiopia and Liberia, 'South West Africa Cases'. Internat'l Court of Justice. - Member of New York Bar; member, Internat'l Law Committee of the Bar Assoc. of the City of New York.- Books: The Role of Domestic Courts in the International Legal Order' (1964); 'Law, Morality and War in the Contemporary World' (1963). Co-Editor, The Strategy o! World Order'. 4 vols., (1966): Security in Disarmament' (1965). 
John H. ie. Fried, Rapporteur, Ph.D. (Columbia), LL.D. (Vienna). Adjunct Prof, of Political Science- 
All right, 1 will read the whole lot. It continues:   . . City University of New York (City College). Previously, New York Univ.; Inst, of Social Research. Columbia Univ.; collaborator, Brookings Institution project, 'Financing the U.N. System'; etc. - United Nations expert on internal 1 law (Legal Adviser to the Gov't, of Nepal, ('1964-1966); Consultant (1950-51), Legal Officer 11952-54), United Nations; Senior official, inter-nat'l Labor Office (Montreal, 1944-7). Expert, Judge Advoc. General's Office, Dept. of the Army (1949-50); Special Legal Consultant, U.S. War Crimes Tribunals, Nuernberg (1947-49). Books: "lbc United Nations System, (Vol. 1. Worldmark Encyclopaedia 1963); etc. Co-author. Annual Review of U.N. Affairs' (1955-1957); etc. Co-editor &amp; co-author, "The Third Reich' (UNESCO symposium) (1953); co-editor (as the Tribunals' representative), 'Trials of War Criminals before the Nuernberg Military Tribunals*. 14 vols. (1950-53). 
All of these people say that the intervention of the U.S. in Vietnam was illegal. The next one is: 
Richard j. Barnet, LL.B. (Harvard). CoDirector. Institute for Policy Studies, Washington, D.C. - Previously, Advisor on Internat'l Law, Headquarters U.S. Army, Europe; 
That takes him out of the Red category. It continues:   . . Special Assistant, U.S. Dept. of State;  Deputy  Director, Office of Policy Research, U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency; Consultant, U.S. Dept. of Defense; World Law Fund. 
Honourable senators ought to be careful now, this next qualification will bring out the suspicion. It continues:  - Fellow, Russian Research Center, Harvard Univ.; Research Assoc., Center of Internat'l 
Studies, Princeton Univ. - Member of Massachusetts and Federal Bars. Adviser, American Law Institute. - Books: 'Who Wants Disarmament? (i960); co-author, 'After Twenty Years'. The Decline of NATO and the Search for a New Policy in Europe' (1965); co-editor, 'Security in Disarmament' (1965). 
Are you prepared to accept the qualifications? 
I am prepared merely to read the names of the men who follow but I was incited to read the qualifications of every one of these men because  Senator Young  foolishly indicated that these people would be - shall we say - Communist orientated and therefore their opinions would be suspect and the only way that one can counter such an accusation is by reading the qualifications of the men who are on this committee. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard the names of the remaining members of the committee and their qualifications: 
John H. Herz LL.D. (Cologne), Diplome (Institut Universitaire de Haines Etudes Internationales, Geneva). Professor of International Relations, City Univ. of New York (City College). Visiting Prof., Columbia Univ., Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, etc. Member, Institute for Advanced study, Princeton Univ. Consultant, Rand Corp.; Political Analyst, U.S. State Dept. and Office of Strategic Services. Fullbright Fellow (Free University, Berlin). - Books: 'Nationalsocialist Doctrine of International law' (Zurich, 1938); 'Political Realism and Political Idealism' (1951) (This book received the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award of the Am. Political Science Assoc.); 'International Politics in the Atomic Age' (1959); co-author;  'Major Foreign  Powers' (latest ed., 1967); 'Government and Politics in the Twentieth Century' (latest ed., 1965). 
Sta'nley Hoffmann, Diplome, Institut d'Etudes Poliliques (Paris), M.A. (Harvard),  Dr of  Law (Paris). Prof, of Government, Harvard Univ. - Research Associate, Centre for Internat'l Affairs, Harvard Univ.; Associate, Kennedy Institute of Politics.- Books: 'The State of War' (1965); 'Organisations Internationales et Pouvoirs Politiques des Etats' (1954); etc. Co-author, 'In Search of France' (1963); Editor, 'Contemporary Theory in International Relations' (1960). 
Wallace McClure, LL.B. (Univ. of Tennesee Ph.D. (Columbia). Advisor (1958-64: Consulting Director), World Rule of Law Center, Duke Univ. - Previously, Lecturer on Internat'l Law, Univ. of Dacca and Karachi (Pakistan), Duke Univ., 
Univ. of Virginia; member, Faculty of Am. Internat'l College, assigned to U.S. Air Force (Dharan; Dean, Overseas Div.; Prof., Bermuda). - U.S. Dept. of State 1920- 19S1 (incl. assignments at Montevideo Conf. of American States; U.S. Legation, Stockholm; Ass't. Chief, Treaty Division). - Member of the Knoxville, Tenn and Federal Bars.- Rapporteur, 'The U.S. in the U.N.', Commission to Study the Organization of Peace. - Books: 'World Legal Order. Possible Contributions by the People of the United States' (1960) ; 'International Executive Agreements' (1941); etc. 
Saul H. Mendovitz  J.D.  (Chicago). Professor of Law, Rutgers School of Law, State Univ. of New Jersey. - Member, Executive Council, Am. Society of Internat'l Law. - Research Associate, Centre of Internat'l Studies, Princeton Univ., Univ. of Chicago Law School. Visiting Scholar, Harvard Law School. Consultant, Harvard Grad School of Education; World Law Fund; etc. - Member of Illinois Bar. - Books: 'Legal and Political Problems of World Order' (1962); co-editor, The Strategy of World Order', 4 vols. (1966). 
Richard S. Miller, LL.M. (Yale) (Sterling-Ford Fellow), LL.B. (Boston), B.S. (Boston). Professor of Law, Ohio State Univ. College of Law; previously, Wayne State Univ. Law School. - exec. Director, Detroit Internat'l Trade Conference (1963); Reporter, Michigan Juridical Conference (1961)  . -  Member of Michigan and Mass. Bars. - Editor-in-Chief, Boston Univ. Law Review (1955-56).  -  Member, Regional Council, Am. Assoc. of Univ. Professors. 
Hans J. Morgenthau LL.D. (Frankfort); G rad Instit. for Internat'l Studies (Geneva). Albert A. Michelson Distinguished Service Prof, and Director, Center for the Study of Am. Foreign Policy, Univ. of Chicago. Previously, Univ. of Geneva; Prof, of Internal'1 Law, Madrid; Visit. Prof. California. Columbia, Harvard, Princeton, Yale Universities; Visit. Research Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for Internat'l Peace; Washington Centre, Foreign Policy Research. - Consultant, U.S. Dept. of State, U.S. Dept. of Defence. Member of the Missouri Bar. - Books: 'Politics Among Nations' (latest ed., 1966); 'Politics in the Twentieth Century', 3 vols. (1962); 'The Purpose of American Politics' (1960); 'In Defence of the National Interest' (1951); 'Scientific Man vs. Power Politics' (1946); etc. Co-author, 'American Diplomacy in a New Era' (1961); etc. Editor, Peace, Security and the United Nations' (1946); Co-editor 'Principles and Problems of International Politics' (1950). 
William G. Rice S.J.D. (Harvard). Professor emeritus of International Law, Univ. of Wisconsin Law School. - Honorary Member, Am. Soc. of Internat'l Law; two terms on Executive Council of that Society. - Lecturer on U.S. law in Austria, India, Pakistan, Switzerland. Law clerk of Assoc. Justice Louis D. Brandeis; first General Counsel, National Labor Relations Board (1934); U.S. Labor Commissioner in Geneva (liaison with Internat'l Labor Organization); Member, National Defence Mediation Board; Asst. Gen. Counsel. U.N. Relief and Rehabilitation Agency (1945); etc.- Books: 'A Tale of Two Courts' (1967); 'Law Among States in Federacy' (1959).-  Chairman.  Wisconsin Civil Liberties Union; member of the Board, American Civil Liberties Union. 
Burns H. Weston LL.B (Yale), J.S.D. Candidate (Yale) (Sterling - Rockefeller Fellow). Associate Professor of Law, College of Law, The University of Iowa. Previously, Associate Attorney, Paul, Weiss, Rifkind. Wharton &amp; Garrison - Member of the New York Bar. 
Quincy Wright Ph.D. (Univ. of Illinois). Professor emeritus of Internat'l Law, Univ. of Chicago, Univ. of Virginia. Visit. Prof. New Delhi, Cairo, Ankara, Makerere (Uganda), Columbia Univ., etc.; Visit. Research Scholar, Carnegie Endown. for Internal.'1 Peace. -  President  (1955-56) and Honorary member. Am. Soc. of Internat'l Law; Honorary Editor, 'Am. Journal of Internat'l Law';  President  (1949), Am. Political Science Assoc., (1950) Internat'l Pol. Science Assoc., (1944-46) Am. Assoc. of Univ. Professors; member, Commission to Study the Organization of Peace; etc. - Consultant, U.S. Dept. of State, Internat'l Milit. Tribunal, Nuernberg; U.S. High Commissioner, Germany; etc. - Books: 'A Study of War' (1965); The Role of International Law in the Elimination of War' (1961); 'International Law and the United Nations' (1960); 'The Strengthening of Internat'l Law' (1959); 'The Study of Internal'1 Relations' (1955); 'Problems of Stability and Progress in Internat'l Relations' (1954); 'The Causes of War and the Conditions of Peace' (1935); etc. Co-editor and co-author, Preventing World War III, Some Proposals' (1962); etc. 
In conclusion I suggest that all honourable senators on the Government side who question the legality of the American and Australian intervention in South Vietnam should read this book for their edification so that they will not come forward with such wild statements. Anyone who suggests that our intervention in Vietnam is legal has no knowledge whatever of the subject. 
I take this opportunity to round off the remarks that I made when this statement was debated previously. I merely ask the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  to consider the proposition that I put forward then, namely, that greater facilities should be provided for members of the Parliament to visit New Guinea because the dramatic changes that are taking place there make it necessary for every member of the Parliament to be fully informed. I point out that the matter of cost should not be a limitation because members of the Parliament now have the opportunity to travel to Thursday Island at will and, as I think I indicated on the last occasion, the cost of air travel to Thursday Island, to which we can travel at any time on a warrant, is greater than the cost of air travel to New Guinea. So the matter of cost should not be a consideration. But entry procedures should be eased to enable members of the Parliament to enter at will. 1 ask the Minister to consider that proposition. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to a Press report headed 'Abattoir Inspectors are Blamed for Meat Ban'? Will the Minister take action to protect Commonwealth meat inspectors from being blamed for the results of an American tactic to use health measures to erect a barrier against United States imports of Australian mutton? 
I wish to address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in relation to the reply he gave a few minutes ago to a question asked earlier by  Senator Cant.  I would not like  Senator Cant's  question to go astray or the Minister to be misled. I ask the Minister to determine whether it is a fact that the Commonwealth Bank is now making loans of more than $8,000 for the purposes of home building on which it is charging interest at 8%, repayments to be made monthly. That is my information. 
1 wish to support in a brief and general way the matter raised by  Senator Keeffe.  It concerns the people of the Torres Strait islands. 1 would like to impress upon the Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  that the people of the Torres Strait believe themselves to be in a neglected position. They seem to be in a no man's land between New Guinea and the mainland. Australia is spending a tremendous amount of money in New Guinea which is close by but is spending very little in the Torres Strait. The Torres Strait islanders on Thursday Island are living in a condition of degradation. No other word describes it. They are beginning to live in conditions which are primitive. They are living in shops which have been boarded up with broken fibre They have been subjected to invasion by trawler fishermen. They arc influenced by quite a number of hotels. The whole of their life is beginning to fall away. They are not receiving the assistance they ought to be receiving. 
Australia has made a grant of $53 m to Indonesia. The decision to make the grant is known in the Torres Strait. The people are beginning to feel that perhaps they are not being thought of. Unfortunately it is neglect on the part of the State Government which has control of this area. It is the State Government which is at fault. What the Australian Labor Party is trying to impress upon the Federal Government, the Department of Social Services and the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs is that some initiative will have to be taken in this area. I have a copy of the letter which was sent to  Senator Keeffe  and which seems to indicate in fairly strong terms that the Minister is thinking that the Federal Government may have to take a firmer initiative and may even have to invade another territory of State responsibility. Personally I think this would bc a good thing for the Torres Strait islanders. I think it is necessary for the Department to look at this possibility, when it considers the legislation for control of territorial waters, of restricting the waters around the Torres Strait islands for the benefit and use of the islanders who have a natural capacity to work the seas. 

 Senator Keeffe has spoken of the mineral wealth to be found on these islands. He has stated that it is necessary that these minerals be exploited for the good of the island people. An agreement was made by the Government in connection with Groote Eylandt, lt is favourable to the people of that island although I do not think it goes quite far enough. In any legislation which is likely to be brought down the Department should make certain that if any mineral exploitation is to take place in that area the rights of- the Torres Strait islanders should be protected. The Australian Labor Party asks the Department to go further and see whether the riches of the seas surrounding the islands shall be exploited by the islanders for their benefit. A problem exists here. I ask the Minister to look at this. On Banks Island or Moa Island - the island to which  Senator Keeffe  has referred - is situated the village of St Pauls. It is a Christian community which consists of people who are descendants of Pacific islanders. They are people descended from the Kanakas who were brought to Queensland as forced labour. There is no other term one can use. Their descendants are now living on Banks Island. 
In the general appeal the Australian Labor Party is making for these people in the Torres Strait I want to ask the Government whether the benefits which it has provided under the federal aid programme for Aboriginals cover these people. Are they entitled to seek assistance under the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises? These people are not Torres Strait islanders and they are not Aboriginals. It is my feeling that some definition will have to be given by the Department which will cover these people so that they can receive assistance. They need assistance in a great number of directions. They need employment; they need assistance with employment; they need housing; they need all these things. This area has a tremendous potential to assist the people of the islands but the initiative must be taken by the Federal Government. The State Government has not accepted its responsibility in this area and in many other areas. 
Increasing pressure will be put on the Department and the Government to take over these State responsibilities. The indication in this letter from the Minister,  Mr Wentworth,  to  Senator Keeffe  is that the Federal Government has the power to do so. Pressure for the Government to take action is increasing. This is what we arc asking tonight. We ask the Government to accept greater responsibility in this area and in particular this island of Moa which has fairly extensive deposits of wolfram. The wolfram deposits concerned no-one for many years until the natives set up a cooperative for the purpose of exploiting these deposits. Immediately they took this step everyone took interest in the deposits. They were told that they could hot take it, or that if they did exploit the deposits it would have to be for the whole of the Aboriginal population or the whole of the Torres Strait islanders. No consideration was given to those people who have lived, existed or subsisted on that island for generations. Now consideration is being given to them because there is some prospect of great wealth. The Australian Labor Party asks the Department to take firm steps to protect the rights of the islanders. I believe this can be done by the Department making a survey through the Bureau of Mineral Resources. It is no use saying that the Bureau has no geologists available. When we suggested a survey the answer came back that no geologists were available. There must be some geologists available. We are asking that priority be given to this proposition that the depth of the deposits on Moa Island or Banks Island be investigated by a Government department. A private firm should not be allowed in to speculate, take out feasibility tests or try to make a killing on the share market by saying:'There are signs of wolfram there; buy shares because they will give a capital gain.' The Government should not allow this to happen. The Bureau of Mineral Resources should make a survey to determine the extent of the deposits and take every precaution to see that the people both at Kuban Village and St Pauls Village are protected. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Was the American drive into Cambodia made with the prior knowledge of the Australian Govern- : ment. 
Were any prior consultations held between "the Australian and American Government; if so, when. 
Does the Australian Government agree with -the extension of the conflict into Cambodia. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister consider allowing officers of the Fisheries Branch of the Department to make a submission to the royal commission on the Great Barrier Reef? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Hewill recall that last December the Treasurer announced that ex-service pensioners would benefit from the distribution of surplus assets in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. What progress has been made in the distribution of those assets? How many ex-servicemen have benefited? What were the conditions of their entitlement? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government protested to General Lon Nol of Cambodia concerning the recent alleged massacre of Vietnamese; if not, does the Government intend to lodge such a protest. 
Will the Minister assure the Senate that, until such massacres cease, no appeal by Cambodia for arms or other assistance will be considered. 
Did the Minister indicate in Saigon that Australia may send a goodwill delegation to Cambodia; if so, is it the Government's intention to send a goodwill mission even if such an act might give the impression in Australia and overseas that Australia supports the actions of the Lon Nol regime. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is a document entitled 'Australian Military Forces Pocket Book, South Vietnam' on issue to our defence forces? If so, does it, as is claimed by the 'Catholic Worker', give only right wing accounts of the Vietnam war? Who wrote the document? On what authority was it distributed? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. If the document entitled 'Australian Military Forces Pocketbook South Vietnam' is on issue to the defence forces, and even if it is on a restricted list, will he make a copy available to the Senate for perusal? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice:  in view of a recent press report headed Abattoir Inspectors Blamed for Meal Ban', will the Minister take action to protect Commonwealth Meat Inspectors from being blamed for the results of an American lactic to use health measures toerect a barrier against the import of Australian mutton. 
I have been stirred into participating in this debate by the remarks of the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who represents the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in this chamber. I am one of those who think that this Bill is a patchwork piece of legislation which does not adequately remedy the present situation. The Bill will not result in the community receiving the type of health service to which it is entitled. I was of the opinion that it was a rather vain gesture on the part of the Opposition to endeavour to improve the Bill because it is almost beyond improvement. However, we are trying to correct some of the more obvious discrepancies. 
The statement which the Minister has just made concerning hospitals in Queensland is one which has to be answered. Admittedly, the hospitals in Queensland impose no charge. The Minister has stated that because no charge is imposed the Commonwealth benefit should not be paid. The Minister implies that the provision of services costs the hospitals nothing. It is against the expenditure which the hospitals have to meet that the benefit has to be paid. The reports of 2 committees of inquiry have been quoted during this debate. Incidentally, both reports were prepared by people who had received expert evidence or were themselves experts in the field. The report of the 
Commonwealth's Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance - the Nimmo Committee - shows that the Queensland Government meets 73.2% of the cost of hospitalisain that State. This was the position in 1967-68, but, relatively speaking, the figures are true as at this time. The New South Wales Government has a contribution rate of 48.9%. The Commonwealth Government, by neglect, has imposed on the Queensland Government a burden which it cannot meet. The result is that the standard of hospital services in Queensland has been reduced considerably. 

 Senator Milliner has said that the amount paid to nurses in Queensland is the lowest in the Commonwealth. The service which is being provided is also falling away, lt is completely unjust for the Minister to say that there is no reason why the people of Queensland should receive the benefit of the full $2 subsidy which is paid by the Commonwealth. Does the Minister realise that denial of the Commonwealth benefit costs the Queensland Government $2m each year? This is unjust. Both the Nimmo Committee and the Senate Select on Medical and Hospital Costs have supported the payment of the full subsidy. For the life of me 1 cannot understand why the Government refuses to pay it. ! 
This Bill was rushed through the other place in a most intemperate manner. When a similar amendment to this one was moved in the other place it was ruled out of order. At least we have had a chance to discuss it in this place. However, the attitude of the Minister for Housing is similar to the attitude adopted by the Minister for Health in the other place. 1 wish to quote from the report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs. Perhaps I will be able to get through to the Government by doing so. 
Yes, the report was tabled only today. It is just one of the reports which the Government has decided to neglect. Paragraph 107, at page 32 of the report, states: 
Two particular aspects of hospital benefits were considered by the Committee, as they obviously were also by the Nimmo Committee. These matters are (i) the disqualification of the Queensland hospital authorities from receiving the Commonwealth insured benefit of $2 per day for the relatively large percentage of non-insured patients in that State, and fu) the payment by the Commonwealth of an amount of 80c per day lo hospitals in respect of patients who are not insured for fund benefits. 
This seems io be contrary to the Minister's interpretation. The Government will pay 80c a day. but for some reason or another it will not pay the full amount, which would involve an extra $1.20 a day. Paragraph 108 stales: 
Wilh respect to these two matters, which were mentioned in the previous report, the Committee received suggestions that the payment of 80c per day should be abolished, and that the Commonwealth should pay the Commonwealth insured benefit in respect of public ward patients in Queensland hospitals. 
Paragraph 109 stales: 
On the question of Commonwealth benefit lo Queensland hospitals, the Committee believes that the non-availability of the insured benefit of S2 per day for the large percentage non-insured has the effect  of  discriminating-- 
And 1 repeat the word 'discriminating'-  against the citizens  of  Queensland, because they happen to have a system of free 'public ward' treatment. The Committee therefore recommends the payment of the insured benefit for inpatients at Queensland public hospitals, irrespective of whether the patients are insured or nol. 
Paragraph 110 of the Committee's report, states: 
Briefly, the Committee believes that the provision of the amount of 80c per day has, to some extent at least, a negative effect on encouraging insurance, and is of no significant advantage, lt was a benefit initiated in 1946 (when the amount was 60c per day), raised in 1948, and absorbed, somewhat paradoxically, into the present scheme in 1952. lt has no place in this scheme. 
The present attitude of the Government and the Minister is outright discrimination against Queensland. If they persist in this attitude it will mean virtually the destruction of the hospital system in Queensland, which has been maintained for many years at great cost by the people of Queensland.. The Government has placed a burden on Queensland which it cannot properly bear. 1 ask the Minister and the Government to have another look at the situation. 1 support the Opposition's amendment. 
I should like to make a quick comparison. The Commonwealth Government pays a subsidy to nursing homes. The Minister can correct me if I am wrong, but I believe that the Government pays the subsidy to the hospital itself on the basis of per day of attendance, treatment or convalescence of a patient. Why can the same principle not be applied to the payment of the Commonwealth benefit to hospitals? Can the Minister explain why the benefit cannot be paid overall to the hospital rather than to the patient, because the end result is exactly the same? 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [4.43] -I thinkI have answered this question. We are encouraging people to insure themselves. We are encouraging voluntary health insurance. This is the whole point I have been making since we commenced to discuss this question. 1 think that if  Senator Prowse  refers again to section 47 (1.) of the Act he will find the answer to the question he has asked. Of course, I am not the mover of the amendment. The Opposition has brought forward the amendment. I can only refer to the payment of the Commonwealth benefit as set out in the Act. Section 47 ( 1 . ) provides: 
Commonwealth benefit under this Division is payable to the registered hospital benefits organisation that conductsthe hospital benefits fund to which the contributor concerned is a contributor. 
So we pay the benefit to the fund to which the contributor concerned is already contributing. Whether theOpposition, by its amendment, intends to pay the benefit to a person who is not insured, or to the patient, or how it plans to do it, is a matter for the Opposition to decide. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Hasthe American Embassy in Laos been used as the headquarters for directing the bombing of northern Laos; if not, how has it happened that the United States has carried on a secret operation for 4 years without the knowledge of the Australian Government and the Australian Parliament. 
asked the Minister representingthe  Prime  Minister, upon notice: 
What is the reason for the delay in setting up theRoyal Commission to inquire into oil drilling on the Barrier Reef as announced in the Governor-General's speech made when opening the current Session of Parliament. 
Who is responsible for this delay. 
Does the delay stem from disagreement with the Queensland Government over the composition of the Commission. 
Unfortunately I missed the opportunity to speak on this Bill because I was not aware that several people listed to speak before me would be unavailable. However, I would like to ask a question of the Minister concerning the power of this Bill to prevent the manoeuvre by an overseas company to evade taxation, ls there any power within the Bill to prevent a company from becoming, as I think has been indicated previously, a service industry which will sell to an overseas arm of the company at a price below cost and so evade the payment of tax. I bring this up because it is very important. 
Clause 8 (4.) (c) allows me to ask again the question which 1 was asking before. Am I to understandthat this clause does not give the Corporation any power whatsoever over the policy of the company or the enterprise to which it subscribes? Does this clause indicate that the Corporation will have no power to control the method by which the company operates or the price at which it sells and, therefore, the Corporation will not be able to control a situation where the company to which it subscribes sells at a price below the market price so that it can establish its profit overseas? I would like the Minister to answer me and to indicate whether if this is not done the Corporation, by this clause, is concerned only with ownership of shares and is not concerned with the policy or the operation of that company and with what it does with the environment which surrounds its operations. 
Clause 9 reads: 
In the exercise of ils powers the Corporation is not subject to direction by or on behalf of the Commonwealth. 
I have reservations about this provision and 1 would like to voice them for the record. ] am not one of those who believe that this Corporation might serve the purposes of the Labor Party when it comes to power. I am of the opinion that such a wide power as that given in this clause will permit the Corporation, without any reference whatsoever to the Parliament, to use moneys provided by the Parliament at its own discretion. In my view, this is somewhat related to the methods that were used in Germany before the Second World War, when public finances were used to bolster up the finances of private companies for their benefit. I consider the giving lo a corporation of such power as is given in this clause to be very reprehensible. 
I cannot allow the opportunity to pass without expressing my disappointment at the Bill. 1 had hoped that at least there would be a constructive move by the Government to lake some firm action to control overseas investment in Australia and the introduction into Australia of overseas companies. But the further we got into the Bill, the more 1 realised that it was not the Government's intention to do anything constructive or concrete. In fact, I believe the Bill to be a fantastic one. Not only does it deny the opportunity to take the initiative to obtain some control of the exploitation of our assets by overseas ownership; but it indicates that the Government is prepared to wait until the initiative is taken by a particular enterprise which seeks financial assistance in order to become established. But even after a company has accepted the initiative to ask the Government to participate in an operation, the Government promptly abdicates any responsibility for ownership of shares or control over the operation. I had hoped that the Australian Industry Development Corporation would have protected Australian assets and Australian interests. 
In particular, I want to refer to the great need for an active corporation ofthat type. There is a great need for such a corporation to participate in the development of Queensland where increasing exploitation of mineral resources is being allowed to rest in the hands of overseas concerns and combines. But I wanted, because this has been canvassed by other speakers, merely to bring up an example where there is need for a corporation of this type not only to take the initiative but to accept the full responsibility of ownership and participation, that is. not only how it operates the concern andat what price it sells the commodity but also the general method of operation, the general manner in which it extracts the product. In one case just recently there is evidence of just how great a need there is. 1 want to speak about the Cooloola sands area in Queensland which is subject to an application for development by 2 companies, one which is called Queensland 
Titanium Mines Pty Ltd - honourable senators should not be deceived by the name because in spite of that it is 100% American owned - and another which is called Cudgen Rutile (No. 2) Pty Ltd which is only 85% American owned: Australians have 15%. I thought that the corporation would have taken steps to protect the environment in which we have to live. Honourable members should remember this, that the overseas concerns are not worried about our environment at all because they do not have to live in it. They are not concerned at the methods they use to extract their product. If one goes to Moura one can see an example of the worst mining husbandry that one could imagine. The coal is extracted by the most inefficient methodthat one could imagine.At a recent Mining Warden's Court hearing at Gympie from 1 1th to 21th May 1970 matters were raised that should be of interest to all honourable senators. Before the court were representatives of the AustralianConservation Foundation and oft he 2 companies which I mentioned which wish to mine the sands of the Cooloola area, including the uniqueTeewah sands, commonly known as the Noosa coloured sands. 
If this Corporation we are setting up were to function as it should then there would be, I imagine, some concern on the part of the Commonwealth Government that no action would be taken to disturb an area which is unique to Australia. In other words, it is more than financial control we are looking for. We are looking also for policy control and this Bill does not give it. Anyone who is in any way familiar with the area agree that it has strong claims for such recognition. I wish to quote from a paper prepared by an ecologist who appeared before the court,  Dr A.  G. Harrold. He states: 
With its rain forests, its hardwood forest reserves, its coloured sands, its wildflower heaths and plains, its fresh water lakes and the long even stretches of the Noosa River Cooloola is a complex ecological mosaic. 
Yet we have permitted this area to be completely at the mercy of an overseas concern. Expert witness after expert witness testified to the area's unique characteristics, all of which combine to allow the opportunity to establish a national park of great educational, scientific and recreational value. Today more and more people who live in cities wish to experience this type of environment and yet it is continually being destroyed by overseas companies because we do not control their policy and they are not concerned about our environment. I had hoped - and J say it again - that participation by the Commonwealth through this Corporation would have been a participation in policy also, not just a participation in money supply. The cost of allowing the mining companies into the area is destruction. Company representatives before the court were unable to give an example of the successful rebuilding of sandhills to the degree of elevation prevalent at Cooloola, nor were they concerned. Additionally, the Government Botanist,  Mr S.  L. Everist, stated that satisfactory revegetation was impossible so the area once interfered with by an outside concern over which we have no control could not be re-established. There are supposed to be other benefits which would flow from the mining operations at Cooloola. Suppose we were prepared to accept the destruction of this area? The 2 companies, as J stated before, were Queensland Titanium Mines and Cudgen Rutile (No. 2) Pty Ltd. The record of Queensland Titanium Mines gives us just one more example of the matter on which this Parliament should take action. 
No, it is concerned with this Bill because I am strongly protesting that this Bill is not taking the precautions which it ought to take. The Government claims that it is seeking ownership but it is denying ownership. Here we have an example of a monopoly- 
No, lt is not quite. Let me go on further. 
Perhaps, but I do not think the person who has interjected anticipated just how the mining company would operate. Let us forget about the fact that they are about to interfere with a potential national park, and that perhaps is the concern of Queensland but if it is the concern of Queensland it ought to be the concern of the rest of Australia. At a superficial glance Queensland Titanium Mines would please those who are worried about the remission of profit overseas because it does not make a profit. This is where the Commonwealth should be concerned. The reason for the company making a loss is simple.  Mr A.  Griffen, who retired as a director in May and was a former manager of Queensland Titanium Mines, revealed before the Mining Warden's Court that Queensland Titanium Mines sells to its American parent at a price sufficiently below the open market price to ensure that it makes a paper loss in Australia and thereby avoids paying tax. lt is at this point that we are very concerned because not only does this company do this but Comalco also, through its operations at Gladstone, does exactly the same thing.  Senator Cant  outlined this previously. 
The point I am making is that these companies not only have no concern for the environment but also they have no concern for the financial position of this country. Now, if this Corporation is not going to take the initiative to make certain that these companies do not monopolise one of our assets then I think the whole of the Bill is a failure. I would also point out that the Commonwealth must take responsibility because in certain cases the States are not accepting the full responsibility. 1 will make another point here, too. The honourable senator said that this is a State responsibility. 
lt functions under State legislation, but we have as members of the Queensland Cabinet men who have a financial interest in the concerns with which they are dealing. In particular, a  Mr Hodges,  who is the Minister for Works and Housing in Queensland, owns 500 shares in Mineral Deposits which is a sister company of Queensland Titanium Mines. 
The Minister for Works and Housing,  Mr Hodges,  owns 500 shares in Mineral Deposits which is a sister company of Queensland Titanium Mines, one of the applicants for the Cooloola leases. He is a member of the Cabinet which has to make a decision on these issues. 
Yes, it has. 
I am exposing it at the present time, because the Commonwealth Government must take the initiative through legislation similar to this. The Bill does not properly provide for the protection of our national assets and no longer can these assets be divided State by State. J clearly make the statement that the legislation should have provided for an initiative to be taken by the Corporation to protect these assets against over exploitation from overseas. That is the basis of my approach. J am very disappointed that the legislation has not gone sufficiently far. 1 know that I should have spoken during the second reading debate. Since this is the third reading stage I do not intend to take up the time of the Senate any further but 1 did feel strongly that I should express my point of view in this regard to indicate my belief that the Corporation which is being set up by the Government is merely a timid approach to a vital problem. If the States will not properly protect their assets the Commonwealth must take the initiative. Having listened to the second reading debate and the proceedings during the Committee Stage I say that the Government has again failed to do what it should do in this regard. 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that the bushfire victims of Tasmania received more than S2m in relief from overseas? Does he not agree that this places in an extremely poor light Australia's gift of $15,000 to the Peruvian victims? 
1 direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Government going to accept without protest the statement by VicePresident Ky that South Vietnamese troops will remain in action in Cambodia after the Americans withdraw? Is it not a fact that if this is permitted, the Australian withdrawal from Vietnam will be further delayed? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen reports of statements made by a nuclear expert,  Mr H.  J. de Bruin, a former principal research scientist with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, to the effect that the Jervis Bay nuclear power station could not be justified on economic grounds? 
Did he say that as a pilot plant for future nuclear development in Austral' a the $130m installation at Jervis Bay would be utterly extravagant? As  Mr de  Bruin is only one of many persons whose voices have been raised against the economics, the possible danger of water pollution and other aspects of the proposed nuclear plant, will the Government delay acceptance of a lender until further expert investigation of all these contingencies has been carried out? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether he is aware of regulation 37 of the Public Service Regulations, which reads: 
No officer shall directly or indirectly solicit or accept gifts or presents from any member of the public concerned directly or indirectly with any matter concerned with the duties of the officer or in which the Commonwealth is interested. 
Will he undertake to carry out investigations to see whether this regulation has been breached by the recent questionable issue of Comalco shares? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will the Minister instruct officers of the Fisheries Branch of the Department of Primary Industry to make a submission to the Royal Commission on the Great Barrier Reef, to assist in establishing the present and future economic value of the area and its present importance and likely future importance to the northern fishing industry. 
There can be no questioning the desirability of building a power house in the central Queensland region. By almost all economic indications, Queensland is badly in need of some such stimulus for industrial expansion. Queensland has the lowest average earnings per week of any State in Australia, being more than $7 a week behind the national average. Queensland has the highest percentageof people in receipt of unemployment benefits. For this the Commonwealth must accept a great deal of the blame simply because it has failed to give Queensland a fair share of its spending. While Sydney and Melbourne have tens of millions of dollars spent on their airports, Brisbane has tens of thousands of dollars spent on its airport. When other States have been obtaining $2 a day per patient under the Commonwealth health benefits scheme, Queensland has been handed a mere SOc a day. Perhaps this position will be altered in the near future. The Mount Gravatt university, due to a lack of Commonwealth money, is unlikely to be opened even by 1975, leaving the University of Queensland with the worst staff ratio in Australia. 
In the important field of expenditure by the Department of Supply, more than 10 limes as much is purchased from South Australia as from Queensland. Queensland has not received a direct grant for railway development since the mid- 1 920s, and then it was only $2m for a standard gauge line lo the border of New South Wales. Since 1951-52 the other mainland States have received SI 14.34m in grants for railway projects. Of course, Queensland did receive  a  loan of $40m for the upgrading of the Mount Isa vo Townsville line at what was then regarded as the high interest rate of 5%. In the pas; 2 decades the Commonwealth has granted over S800m to the States for water conservation, irrigation and power. Of this, only $32. 6m has come to Queensland. An amount of $20m was provided for the Fairbairn Dam and SI 2.6m for the Kolan scheme. Nothing has been given for power, despite the promise in 1949 by the then Leader of the Australian Country Party.  Sir Earle  Page, to build the Burdekin D.:m and hydro-electricity scheme without delay. New South Wales and Victoria, of course, have the benefit of the massive Snowy Mountains scheme which was built with vast amounts of Commonwealth money. Now at last we find that Queensland is lo be given some help, but not as a grant. The Commonwealth is to lend $80m for the Gladstone power station. Note the similarity of our position in relation to grants for railway lines. The loan is at the crippling rate of interest of 6.4%. 
From what I have said, it is clear that Queensland is sorely in need of assistance to develop its industrial base. But need the Commonwealth have taken advantage of such dire circumstances by imposing such an exorbitant rale of interest? Incidentally, the rate of interest is about the only fact that we have been given about the Gladstone power station. We do not know who is to build it. We do not know who is to operate it, or what will be the cost of production and the price charged for bulk supply. I understand that the Stale Government is still negotiating a price with 2 giant overseas firms which are likely to be customers. The 2 firms are Do.w Chemicals and the Queensland Alumina Comalco consortium. I contend - I say it clearly - that it is unwise for the Commonwealth to allow  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and  Mr Chalk  to negotiate a loan on Queensland's behalf, for I fear thai there is real danger that the Stale will end up by subsidising these wealthy giants, and indirectly the Commonwealth will do so. I said how unwise it would be to allow these 2 gentlemen to have sole control over the negotiations for the construction of this power station and for the supply of power, lt is with considerable astonishment that I read in this morning's Agc', under the heading 'Cabinet men get Comalco shares', the following statement: h  igh-rank ing politicians in  3  States - including nearly half  the  Queensland Cabinet - arc being allotted thousands  of  shares in the controversial Comalco Lui share issue. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  -  Senator Georges,  you will restrict your speech to the matter before the Senate. Thus far I can see no reason for sustaining the point of order raised. 
Thank you. I shall develop my theme a little further with your indulgence,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  1 stated how unwise it was to allow Ministers of the Queensland Government to have the sole right to negotiate the loan on Queensland's behalf, lt is obvious that these Ministers have abdicated their right and responsibility in this regard. I am questioning this matter only because we are to supply S80m for the construction of this power station, but we do not seem to be accepting any responsibility for the cost of the building, and we arc noi accepting any responsibility for thc price, at which power is lo be supplied. I am afraid that Queensland consumers will subsidise the price of power, coming from this power station. In other words, it is possible for the Queensland Government to arrange with the companies who need supply a rate below cost. If the 
Government arranges a rate below cost by negotiation with the companies, and if this power house is tied in with the other power stations in Queensland, it is quite possible that the ordinary private consumers in Queensland will have to subsidise the operation of the Gladstone power station. One of the firms concerned in the project is Comalco, which - has made a special offer to leading people in this country, to politicians, to Cabinet Ministers. To the credit of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  he advised that no member of Federal Cabinet should accept this offer because, in effect, he understood it to be a gift. I cannot interpret it in any way other than as a gift. Now we see that half the Ministers of the Queensland Government, who are responsible for carrying out negotiations regarding the supply of power and the cost of power at the Gladstone power station, have accepted large parcels of shares. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for ils repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
This is getting very close to a personal reflection. As I understand it - I have not read anything of the detail - these are allotments of shares offered to people. If it is improper for members of the Queensland Government to accept, is it equally improper for a former Governor-General to have accepted? I suggest with respect,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that you recommend to  Senator Georges  that we are getting very close to a personal reflection on members of another Parliament. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! I took it from  Senator Cotton's  remarks and the way in which he couched them that the reason he raised a point of order was his concern at an imputation which was near but not actually made.  Senator' Georges,  will you continue with your speech? 
The imputation was near but not actually made. The Minister indicated that we might be undertaking a course which we might deeply regret. If he considers- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order!  Senator Georges,  would you please not pursue the line which you have pursued thus far? I should be glad if you would confine your remarks now directly to the matter before the Senate, which is in direct reference to the Gladstone power station, without any irrelevant matter whatsoever. 
You stated,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that I was being irrelevant. I dispute that. I merely used the word 'unwise' when I referred to the Commonwealth Government allowing the negotiations to rest solely in the hands of the Queensland Cabinet. I was about to proceed and say that it was unwise for members of the Queensland Cabinet - I am saying 'unwise' - to accept parcels of shares offered in such a preferential way from companies with which they were negotiating. That is fair comment for me to make. 
Well, 'grossly indiscreet' has been used. I have used the word unwise'. I leave it to honourable senators to place their interpretation upon it within the category of unwisdom. The chief negotiator in the establishment of the power station was the  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Chalk.  He was the chief negotiator not only with the Commonwealth for the loan of $80m but also with the companies which were about to use the power. I say it was most unwise. It should be brought before this Senate that there is a possibility of the misuse of the $80m. I am making the point that far more information than has been given in this Bill should have been given. One of the reasons it should have been given is that one cannot accept the integrity - I use that word - of members of a Cabinet who accept shares in this way. They have prejuduced their right to make a decision in this field. I will not read the list- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Do you raise this point of order under standing order 4 1 8? 
. all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on .Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! I ask you,  Senator Georges,  lo withdraw the words which implied a lack of integrity. 
To permit me to proceed I will withdraw the phrase which questioned the integrity of the Queensland Ministers. 
The action of the company, to which  Senator Little  has referred, in offering these shares in the manner in which they were offered is highly questionable and is a matter which should be taken up by this Parliament. 
 I have spoken about the acceptance and have said that it was unwise, and I have been asked to withdraw and I have withdrawn the inference tha: it put in question the integrity of certain State Ministers. The offer was highly questionable and I trust that this is the last lime that any overseas company, or a company which is owned almost entirely overseas, will make such an issue. I hope that this is the last time that any person in a position of responsibility will accept such a parcel of shares. lt just so happens that we are talking about the negotiations in relation to the Gladstone power station and the companies which are likely to be using the power from it. I emphasise the invidious position in which members of Parliament place themselves when they allow themselves to be compromised in this fashion. A few years ago after negotiating the details of a deal for the Peabody Mitsui organisation to export Moura coal,  Mr Chalk  claimed in the State Parliament that the company was providing funds to build the MouraGladstone railway line. This is another example of what can go on. As the Auditor-General's Report showed later, and as  Mr Chalk  was forced to admit in answer to a question on notice, the State was paying for the railway line. There is a case in which a State Minister stated clearly that certain conditions were being met by a company which was to exploit the coal resources of Moura but when we gol down to investigating the situation wc found that it was not the company which was to pay, it was the people of Queensland. 
Sitting suspended from f» to 8 p.m. 
I will continue from the point I made before the suspension of the sifting. In view of the pathetic negotiating skill of the Queensland Government and its Ministers and because they have compromised themselves as I indicated earlier by accepting preferential treatment from Comalco, a firm with which they had lo negotiate for the supply of power from the Gladstone power station- 
This is the point I am trying to make: The Queensland Cabinet ought not to have placed itself in this compromised position. The Minister who is negotiating the deal.  Mr Chalk,  is one of the men who has accepted a parcel of shares. As a matter of fact, the whole of his family has accepted parcels of shares. I heard earlier tonight that 2,100 shares were involved. According to a person I spoke to in Kings Hall the only one in the family who did not receive shares was the dog. The joke is going around now that the dog is upset about the situation. But let us not have any more facetious remarks. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I ask  Senator Georges  to come back to the Bill. 
This is a serious matter. I believe the Commonwealth Government should demand a guarantee that the price these firms pay for the power covers the cost. No guarantee is contained in the Bill. There is no guarantee that the Commonwealth will be involved in the arrangements, lt is of the utmost importance that we be given the price and the cost of production at this stage. Let me make it clear that I am not against anyone, by his more expert knowledge or skill or because of friends he knows, making a SI or $2. I am against such a situation when our national assets are involved. This is what 1 want explained to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  He remarked before that I was getting very close to questioning the behaviour of Ministers of another Government. I question their behaviour in purchasing shares in companies with which they have dealings, because it does concern a national asset. 
Previously 1 have complained about the Premier of Queensland holding 500,000 shares in the Exoil company, which has leases on the Great Barrier Reef. I do not question  Mr Bjelke-  Petersen because I am afraid he will make $lm from a sudden upsurge in the price of the shares but because he has to make a decision which will affect the future of the Great Barrier Reef, lt is for this reason that I question his right to accept the purchase shares. A similar situation exists with this power station. I question the right pf 5 Ministers of the Queensland Government to accept preferential treatment from Comalco, one of the companies wilh which they have to deal in negotiating a price for the power supplied from this Gladstone power station. The Commonwealth Government is supplying S80m towards the cost of the power station. Recently in a similar situation I questioned the right of  Mr Hodges,  the 
Queensland Minister for Works a/.id Housing to hold 500 shares in Mineral Deposits, which is one of the companies with an application before the Cabinet at this time. It has lodged an application to exploit the mineral sands at Cooloola. Cooloola is a national asset; it is an area which is unique in the world. If we succeed in preventing the lease from becoming operative, it is likely to become one of trie finest national parks in the world - indeed unique. 
It is in this conflict of interest that the criticism is made, and it is made again here. It is not right for the Commonwealth to abdicate its right to be party to the negotiation when 5 Ministers of the Queensland Cabinet have bought shares in one of the companies which is closely involved in the deal. We are entitled to know the facts. It is simply hot good enough to leave the price in the hands of the State Government which, in the past, has shown its ineptitude in dealing with hard bargaining foreign investors. Comalco, one of the parties interested in obtaining power  for  an aluminium smelter- at Gladstone, managed to secure at Weipa from the Queensland Government the biggest and best bauxite lease in the world. The terms were 5c a  t0:1  royalty  for  domestic use and 10c for export. Not lc is flowing back to the people in the area. 
 I am quoting  from my  copious notes. 1 seldom use notes in this place. If you want me  to deal  with the situation without referring  to  these notes I might take longer than I should. A reliable commentator stales that Comalco is producing bauxite at Weipa at a total  cost,  including capital repayment, of $1.20  a lon.  lt is obtaining  over  S5 a ton for  the  bauxite on the open market. There is considerable question about the company's operation at Gladstone, lt has been stated that  the  treatmen t of bauxite al Gladstone is merely  a  service treatment, that the bauxite  k  treated at the lowest possible cost and is  sold  to overseas sections of the company,  so  evading Commonwealth tax. This is something that ought to  be  looked at. The  same  thing will happen with the Cooloola sands  and  in regard to  all  the mineral sands operations. The article is processed below cost  and sold  below cost. The profit is made overseas by the subsidiary companies or sister companies of the concern in Australia. It is about time the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  had a good look at this. I say to the Commonwealth, which is making this loan of $SOm to the Queensland Government for the building of this power station, that it is' suspected that power will be provided at below cost to the refinery and to Dow Chemicals. The Queensland consumer at large will have to meet the cost. This is the unhealthy situation that exists in Queensland at the present time. 
While I welcome the expenditure of $80m on this power station and while I welcome the industrial development at Gladstone, I hope that that development not only will lead to further employment but that it will improve the facilities around Gladstone. I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation to look at the airport in that area so that it will not be necessary, as happened with a Friendship aircraft, for passengers to get out and actually push the aircraft into a position so that it can take off. I ask him to look at the airport so that it will not be necessary for over 50 people and sometimes visitors from overseas, as happened on one occasion when some American tourists were going to Heron Island, to stand out in the sun without any shelter. The facilities are very primitive. I welcome this power station and what it will mean to the people of Gladstone. I hope that those people who take part in the negotiations will make certain that the nation receives more from the whole of the operation in Gladstone than the tax on the workers' wages as has happened in many places before. It has happened in Mount Morgan, in the northern areas, and at Moura where the only direct income which the Commonwealth Government is likely to receive is the income tax on the workers' wages. 
I conclude by saying that what I have said should made it clear that foreign investors and the Commonwealth Government will be the major beneficiaries from this power plant. The people of Queensland are likely to pay. My aim has been to see that they do not have to pay subsidies to these foreign investors, that they have the chance to own at least some part of the industries which will be set up as a result of the establishment of the power house, that the pollution problems in the area are not worsened - which is another aspect - and to persuade the Commonwealth to be more generous in the assistance it gives to this project by having another look at the interest rates now and when future loans of this type are made to Queensland. The 6.4% is far too high for any developmental project of this type. In future I think the Commonwealth Government ought to make money available to Queensland by way of grant - as it does to the other States, particularly in relation to the building of the nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. There $135m is to be provided by grant to build the nuclear power station which will serve no useful purpose in the production of power. Yet S80m is to be provided to Queensland at the rate of 6.4%. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is Australia a signatory to a United Nations Article which states, among other things, that the signatory nations shall do all in their power to promote energetic action which, by combining with legal and other practical measures, will make possible the abolition of all forms of racial discrimination? If so, how does the Government reconcile that fact with our growing trade with South Africa, which in 1969 reached a total of $65. lm? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Government completely reconciled to the continuing closure of the Suez Canal? What initiative has the Government taken recently to protest to warring nations against the blockade of one of our most important  supplu  routes? Or does the Government no longer consider the Suez Canal to be vital to our export economy? 
I am not one who is liable to nightmares; but if there is any one thing that is liable to induce one it is the thought of the crown of thorns starfish eating away at the Great Barrier Reef at the present time. If we continue to take no action, perhaps there will not be any work for the Australian Institute of Marine Science to carry out. I make that point fairly advisedly, because if the overall ecological structure of the Barrier Reef is destroyed by the starfish there will be widespread consequence that will affect the whole of the area and the ability to carry out scientific research as it is intended this Institute will do. It is for that reason that I believe that the Institute has been established at least 10 years too late. Had it been established, say, 5 years ago, perhaps the plague of the crown of thorns on the Reef would have been under control.It is not under control at the moment. As a matter of fact, there are many indications that it is completely out of control. 
Let us see how we have responded and howthe Americans have responded to the threat posed by the crown of thorns. The Americans have nowhere near the responsibility that we have. They have nothing anywherenearthe type or area of reef which is under our control and which is our responsibility. Yet because they had experienced the threat from the crown of thorns starfish they immediately responded and made available a budget of$4m to combat this threat. But as yet we have done almost nothing at all. The Queensland Government has spent about$1 5,000. We have set up a committee which is making an investigation. But no physical action has taken place as yet. 
I believe that the Institute of Marine Science, which is provided for in this Bill, should have been established some years ago. I hope that it will function quickly and that it will be able to bring down some recommendations in conjunction with those of the Committee on the control of the starfish, which at the present time is conducting hearings. I hope that the Institute will quickly bring down some recommendations for positive action against this major threat to the whole of the Barrier Reef. 1 consider this to be the first priority. 
In conclusionI ask the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  whether the Institute or the council that is to be set up to' establish the Institute will be prepared or allowed to make a submission to the royal commission on the Great Barrier Reef with the thought in mind that until this Institute has had at least 10 years in which to carry out its investigation no drilling should take place on the Great Barrier Reef. I believe that the intention is for this Institute to carry out the surveys about which we have been speaking for so long- the complete scientific surveys and assessments of the whole of the Barrier Reef - before any mineral exploitation takes place. I ask whether it is possible that the council that is to be set up will make a submission to the royal commission in favour of a moratorium on drilling on the Reef until the Institute has had sufficient time to carry out some research. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  tonight we have heard various apologies from speakers as they rose to their feet commenting on the fact that they would like to speak at greater length on the Bills to which they directed their remarks but that time and the programme before the Senate did not permit such action. This is, I feel, a pity because each one of the legislative propositions that has been brought before the Senate needs to be thoroughly investigated. 
The Bill before us is merely a machinery measure. It is a bill to provide for expenditure in respect of 2 halls of residences. These are the Women's Hall of Residence at the University of Tasmania and a hall of residence to be known as Roberts Hall at Monash University. Even the minor proposition that we have in this Bill - it may seem to be merely a machinery provision, as I have said - to provide money tha! was appropriated previously does present or should have provided an opportunity for the Senate to debate whether the halls of residence are providing or are carrying out the functions that, they were sei up to carry out or whether they are doing the work in accordance with the expenditure, and the large amounts of expenditure, which are provided by the Commonwealth. 
The discussion of this legislation should provide an opportunity for the Senate to investigate the living allowances of students who attend these halls of residence or these colleges. We should be able to debate why it is that the charges to attend these colleges are as high as $18 per week whereas, I believe, the living allowance for a student is only $19 per week. So, a student finds that, after he has met his costs at one of these colleges, he has barely a few cents upon which to exist. He must provide for clothing and all sorts of extras, including the minor costs of entertaining, out of that $1 per week. It should have been possible for us to examine just how great a burden is placed upon parents of students. It should have been possible for us to examine why this situation aids only those who are wealthy and improverishes even more so those who are poor. Let me take an example. There are many situations in Queensland where- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order!  Senator Georges,  you will please keep to the substance of the Bill. 
Yes. 1 am often seated for much more glaring breaches, lt seems odd that, when the Opposition k to provide only 1  speaker  on this debate. I perhaps should not have been al. owed some latitude. I was saying merely that time ought to be provided to enable the implications of this provision of finance for halls of residence to be debated fully. I would indicate to the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright that in the first 20 days of this sitting we dealt wilh 8 Bills. The Senate ha* now sat for 33 days. We have 22 Bills still on our notice paper and another 35 Bills are on the notice paper in another place. We are expected to cover all this ground in wha.t has been stated will be 3 days only. So, I can see why the Minister rose to his feet and stated that I was wandering somewhat from the subject of the Bill. I will not proceed any further because it was not my intention to say very much more than what I have said. The Opposition supports the Bil)  and will assist in its speedy passage through t:he second reading stage. 

 Senator McMANUS (Victoria) 1 1 0.1 91-  Mr Acting Deputy President,  the purpose of the States Grants (Universities) Bill 1970 is to make available to halls of residence in 2 Australian universities sums of money which previously were to have been made available to them but which, because of what the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  referred to as 'unavoidable delays', have had to be carried over until the present time. I understand that the sums of money concerned are $454,930 for the Roberts Hall at Monash University in Victoria and $47,241 for the Women's Hall of Residence al the University of Tasmania. I regret - and I notice that some members in another place have expressed regret - that this money is being made available for halls of residence which to a large extent can be described as dormitories, rather than being made available for colleges of the type which are well known and which exist. I regret to say, to a too limited extent in this country. In my young days during my university course I was fortunate to be resident at a college, and I believe that a college is of immense advantage to any young student. The mere fact that a couple of hundred young men live together, talk together - the play of mind on mind - is, I believe, of immense value to them. Apparently because of the great expansion of our universities and the degree to which money has to be made available, 1 regret that the best that it is possible to do in a number of universities is to establish halls of residence which, as I said, can be described as dormitories rather than to establish fully equipped colleges. 
I believe that residence at a university is essential if one is to achieve full advantage from a university. I note that the number of full time students at Australian universities who enjoy accommodation in halls of residence is comparatively limited. Fifteen per cent of full time students 'at all Australian State, universities are in halls of residence. The situation is much better at the Australian National University. About 53% of full time students are in residence. If one compares this position with the situation in the United Kingdom, one finds that in the United Kingdom 33% of full time male students and 39% of female students are in residence in colleges at universities. But as 1 have said. 1 realise the necessity for the erection of halls of residence. But I should have hoped that it would have been possible to establish more fully equipped colleges of the kind with which I happened to be associated, as I said, during my university course. 
One realises, of course, the immense financial difficulties which the Commonwealth faces in meeting the large advances of money that it has to make. When one recalls the very limited contribution which the Commonwealth made to tertiary education not so long ago, and when one looks at the large sums that are made available for purposes such as the provision of halls of residence at universities, one must admit that the Commonwealth deserves considerable credit for the financial provision that it has made. We would like to see it go a lot further. I do not wish to trespass,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  upon the Standing Orders, but I should like to have entered upon a discussion of the degree to which we are entitled to ask universities to do more on the question of ensuring that students who go to universities are fully equipped to p;of» from such attendance. 
All of those other questions upon which  Senator Georges  was tempted to enter, I would be tempted to enter upon as well, but I must observe the ruling of the Chair, as  Senator Georges  did. But I can say that I believe one feature of the interest that the Commonwealth has taken in education, for which it deserves to be particularly commended, is its interest in tertiary education. I say this although we cannot have fully equipped colleges and halls of residence which associate students more closely with the university and allow them the opportunity to participate in the social life of the university and in the social organisations that exist there. 
A hall of residence is essential to a country student. One only has to look at the circumstances under which some students are compelled to live in suburbs close to some of our universities in the larger cities to realise that halls of residence offer students facilities infinitely superior to those which are otherwise available. As I have said, I believe that when one looks back a comparatively few years and considers how little was being done in education, and when one looks at the situation today and realises how much is being done in respect of universities, one must pay a tribute to the Commonwealth. At a later stage I should like to make some reference to the dissatisfaction of a number of universities over the provision that is being made for them in other fields. I have received representations from the University of Melbourne Staff Association which indicate considerable dissatisfaction. But this is not the occasion on which to deal with that aspect. I congratulate the Government on what it is doing for these colleges from the sums of money which are made available. I congratulate the Government on what it is doing for both colleges and halls of residence. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Will his Department undertake a search of the register of the recent Comalco issue to ascertain whether any person in a position of public trust took advantage of the preferential offer of shares? 
ls the Minister representing the Attorney-General aware that a  Mr C.  Allen, public relations officer for the Comalco company, was largely responsible for the offering of parcels of preferential shares to VIPs? Did that gentleman make similar offers to members of the Commonwealth Public Service? If so, did he breach the Public Service Act? 
I should like to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. May I draw his attention to questions on notice and point out that only one question is to be answered today? May I also draw his attention to the notice paper, which shows that some 500 questions remain unanswered. 
At any rate, the notice paper shows that many questions remain unanswered. As we are drawing rapidly to the close of the session, can the Leader indicate when we may expect answers to questions which have been for several weeks on the notice paper, and can he assure us we are not now following the practice in another place of allowing many hundreds of questions to accumulate without answer? 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. What action does the Government intend to take to counter the erosion of parliamentary responsibility caused by the continuing practice of Ministers of the Crown accepting shares and participating in share transactions? Is the Minister aware that although this behaviour is confined almost entirely to State Ministers' the integrity of all parliamentarians, State and Federal, is brought into question and, because of recent events, is a cause of much concern? 
The question which the honourable senator poses bristles with contention, of course, as I suppose it is calculated to do. In truth, I have nothing to add to what I said to him last week in response to a question that he asked in relation to the responsibility of all Ministers of the Crown to act with complete propriety. When Ministers hold shares, it always must be established in my judgment - I was expressing a personal view, and I repeat it - that quite clearly they in fact could not be interested in shareholdings in any matter which related in particular to government in the sense that they would need to declare their interest. 
Having said all those things, I still do not believe that a member of Parliament or a Minister of the Crown loses his right as a citizen to do these things. I do not believe that he has to say: 'Although I have worked hard, and by being diligent and careful as a citizen I have saved some money, and my wife has saved some money also, we are to be denied the right to buy some shares in an honourable, honest and open way'. For that reason, I am afraid that I cannot subscribe to the views that are inferences from the question asked by the honourable senator. 
I have not bought shares for many years. This matter does not concern me. But the fact is that I still believe that everybody, including any senator, has the right to invest his or her savings- 
The fact that he becomes a Minister does not mean that he has to go and live in a tent on his own and take no part in community life. Is there any sin in a man buying shares? Is there any sin in a man buying a house? Is there any sin in a man buying something to try to better himself? The qualification that 1 have made - and I repeat that it is a personal qualification - is that a man must act with complete propriety. He must act realising that what he does will be open to scrutiny. He must at all times be certain that he has no interest in a company which has dealings with him in his particular portfolio; for instance, he has to be certain that he will not have to make a judgment in relation to a company in which he might have a share investment. That is the criterion which I personally would apply, and I am sure it is the criterion which all the men whom I know in public life would apply. For that reason I do not respond any further to the honourable senator's question. 
I ask the Leader of the Government a question. Am 1 to gather from an answer to a previous question that the Government is not prepared to set up a committee lo investigate the desirability of members of Parliament declaring their interests'.' ls he aware that the House of Commons in 1969 found it necessary to set up such an inquiry because of the growing conflict between a member's private interests and his public duties? In view of this does the Leader of the Government believe that it is necessary for this Parliament to establish firm guidelines for members of the Parliament in this regard? 
I gave a personal view when I said that 1 believed that people should declare their interests. As to the rest of the question,  1  suggest that it be placed on notice. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
asked the Minister for External Affairs upon notice: 
Is the Government completely reconciled to the continuing closure of the Suez Canal. 
What initiative has the Government taken recently to protest against the blocking of one of our most important supply routes or does the Government no longer consider the Suez Canal vital to Australia's export trade. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The closure of the Suez Canal, following the June 1967 war, naturally remains a source of concern to the Australian Government 
The Australian Government takes the view that it will not be possible to re-open the Suez Canal, which now forms the cease-fire line between Israel and the UAR, until a solution is found more generally to the conflict between Israel and the Arab States. 
The Australian Government has made clear its support for negotiations aimed at a peaceful settlement of the dispute and will continue to support any constructive measures designed to bring about a permanent cease-fire and a just and lasting end to the present conflict. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Is Australia a signatory to a United Nations Treaty which, in one Article, states that signatory nations 'shall do all in our power to promote energetic action which, by combining legal and other practical measures, will make possible the abolition of all forms of racial discrimination'; if so, how does the Government reconcile agreement with this article with the growing trade wilh South Africa, which in 1969 reached a total of $65. 1 m. 
The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
The honourable senator's quotation is from Article 10 of the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. The Declaration is nol a treaty but was embodied in Resolution 1904 (XVIII) which has the recommendatory effect of a General Assembly resolution. It does not recommend that Member States should cease trade with South Africa and it is the Government's view that such action would be unlikely lo influence South Africa's domestic policies but would cause hardship to all the communities of South Africa. 
The Opposition supports the move  to  provide  finance  for the establishment of  an  irrigation system in  the  Bundaberg area. Later on,  we  will move  an  amendment, not  a  vital amendment but one which expresses the opinion of the Opposition about the amount  of  in format ion which has been provided relative to the proposed expenditure. I wish  to  speak briefly on (his Bill. I have listened to previous debates in the Senate concerning water conservation. All honourable senators recall the extensive debates  onthe  Chowilla Dam and the Dartmouth Dam. Although I did not speak  on those  matters, I agree entirely that  a need  exists  for  water conservation in the southern States especially with the background reservoir  of  the Snowy Mountains - that huge reservoir  of  snow which in effect conserves water for continual  use  throughout the year. 
If  we  support water conservation in  the  southern States, how much more must  we  supportthe provision  of  moneys for this purpose in the Stales  to  the north, in particular Queensland which has  a  very heavy fall  of  water which flows  to the sea  but which also  has a  very high evaporation level  that  results in  the  drying up  of  available sources  of  supply  of  water, thus intensifying  the need  for water for irrigation purposes  and  farm development.  For  this reasonthe debate  on  this Bill in another place  was  rather  odd.  Certain Liberal members questioned  the  advisability of providing finance for water conservation.  One  member suggested  that  it would be better to spend money  on  the construction of  the  Sydney Opera House than  onthe  construction  of a  water irrigation scheme  at  Bundaberg.  He  stated  that  a greater number  of  people would obtain pleasure from  the  Opera House than from  a  water irrigation scheme in the Bundaberg area. I find this an astonishing comparison when one considers that in the north water is used for purposes other thanto derive pleasure. It is  a  vital element in the development  of  primary industries over  a  large area. I do not intend to say anything further in this debate because I believe that my colleague  Senator Keeffe  intendsto develop the points I have made and also to move  an  amendment. 
Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General aware that Comalco Industries Ltd, in offering preferential shares to public servants, parliamentarians and Ministers of the Crown, has breached the criminal code in Queensland and Western Australia? I ask whether there is within the criminal code of the Commonwealth a provision similar to that in the Queensland code which states: 
Any person who - (1) In order to influence a member of cither House of Parliament in his vote, opinion, judgment or action, upon any question or matter arising in the House of which he is a member or in any committee thereof, or in any joint Committee of both Houses, or in order to induce him to abse'nt himself from the House or from any such Committee, gives, confers, or procures, or promises or offers to give or confer, or to procure or attempt to procure, any property or benefit of any kind to, upon, or for, such member, or to, upon, or for, any other person: ... is guilty of a crime, and is liable to imprisonment with hard labour for seven years. 
If there is such a provision in the criminal code of the Commonwealth what action does the Government intend to take against Comalco? 
I would like to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that Comalco has withdrawn $40,000 worth of advertising from the Melbourne 'Age' because it was the first to reveal the controversial share issue? Is it also a fact that this company is bringing pressure to bear on other newspapers? Will the Government protest to this arrogant company against this form of intimidation against freedom of the Press in Australia? 
I know nothing of the circumstances. I would only make the comment that if there is to be freedom of the Press I would think there should also be freedom for any organisation that wants to carry out an act which is within its own rights and privileges. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that the recent victims of the Tasmanian bushfires received more than $2 million in relief from overseas donations, is not Australia's gift of$1 5,000 tothe victims of the Peruvian earthquake extremely small 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON: 
The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
Following reports received from the Australian Embassy in Lima on 2nd June, the Government acted quickly to make available on 3rd June a relief grant to assist in the emergency following the earthquake. This gift has been welcomed by Peruvian representatives in Canberra and Lima. Emergency assistance grants in recent years have been in the range of $5 , 000-$ 10,000 with larger amounts being exceptional. The Government welcomes the fact that various voluntary organisations in Australia have decided to make contributions as a demonstration of their profound sympathy for those affected by the earthquake. 
That is right, but he can get it from other places as well as the TAB. Even last week by obtaining an amendment to the health legislation we were able to provide Queensland with an additional $2m to assist the hospitals. If the Commonwealth Government was honest and just in its approach 10 the States, not only would it g ve Queensland this $2m per year for this year, next year and subsequent years but also it would go back over the 10 years it has deprived Queensland of the subsidy and provide Queensland with a grant of $20m. This would obviate the necessity to impose an increase in taxation by this legislation. 1 find it appalling that a State, against necessity, should be required to lift its stamp receipts taxation from 2c in $100 to 10c in $100. This is being forced upon it. lt is no use honourable senators saying that the Queensland Treasurer agrees w th it. As was indicated earlier, any Treasurer would welcome this extra amount of money and would seek justification for keeping it. 
There is another way in which Queensland can obtain the $5m-odd that has been estimated. I think  Mr Chalk  estimated that the increase of duty from 2c in $100 to 10c in $100 would bring in an extra $5m. Others have put the figure much higher, but there are other ways in which the Queensland Government can obtain this money. When be introduced this legislation I think that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  acted on the assumption that  Mr Chalk,  the Queensland Treasurer, faced with this situation, would honour his promise by alleviating taxation in other directions, but apparently  Mr Chalk  is now saying that he intends to keep the $5m without making any compensatory repayments. Members of the Opposition oppose the imposition of this duty on the ground that it falls most heavily on those least able to afford it because it takes no account of their ability to pay. Ultimately the burden must fall upon the consumer and it falls upon him in a vital area of purchase - the purchase of food. A cost escalation is involved and it could mean an increase of 3c or 4c on a whole range of goods in Queensland. The opposition, by way of telegram and letter, which senators on this side of the chamber have received from Queensland manufacturers, producers and friends of the Government should have been sufficient to convince the Government that there was something wrong with the legislation. If the State is to be denied access to this source of revenue- 
That is right, and it is $1 on a pensioner the same as it is $1 on a judge who is receiving $14,000 to $15,000 a year. This is the inequity of this form of legislation and it should not be permitted at any level. There is another way in which the Queensland Government, even without this receipts duty, can secure revenue and can discard the receipts duty. I should like clarification on this point, but apparently this legislation means that the Queensland Government has to impose the duty or must collect the money from Queenslanders. The legislation does not allow any State, even if it so desires, not to have this form of taxation. 
That is so, therefore they must take it and like it. There is an obvious way in which the Queensland Government can garner in $5m or S6m, and it is a relatively painless source of revenue. I refer to an increase in mining royalties which would be quite painless for the vast majority of Queenslanders. 1 am making the point that Queensland does not really need this money and the Senate is justified in refusing the passage of this legislation as it relates to Queensland. Queensland will not be deprived of revenue because there are alternative sources of income which it should take advantage of rather than this legislation. Most of Queensland's mining is dominated by foreign investors, as has been mentioned in this House from time to time. We need look no further than the export of coal to realise that  Mr Chalk  could find $5m without any trouble at all. In 1970-71 approximately 6 million tons of Queensland coal will be exported. Contracts already signed provide for almost 7 million tons to be exported to Japan in the Japanese fiscal year 1970-71 which begins on 1st April 1970. It is estimated that 10 million tons will be exported in 1971-72 and 13.5 million tons in 1972-73. In the second half of this decade Queensland could well be exporting more than 30 million tons of coal a year. Current f.o.b. prices for the great bulk of this coal range between $12 and $13. Prices can be expected to rise. Royalties at present are 5c a ton. I contend that royalties could be increased significantly without driving the mining companies from Queensland. 
As an example let us examine the operations of the Utah-Mitsubishi company at Goonyella in the Peak Downs area. When the project was announced it was stated that there would be an export of 80 million tons of coal over 12 years for a return of S 1,000m. The export is to commence in 1971-72.  Mr Chalk,  who with his family, we now find, owns 2,000 preferential shares in Utah-Mitsubishi, negotiated, in the interests of Queensland, a royalty of 5c a ton giving his Government's consolidated revenue a return of  $4m  from an estimated total return of $ 1,000m. 
I am not discussing that at the moment. 
No, I am not leading up to a discussion of the Comalco company at this stage. 1 am speaking about the Utah company. I have mentioned Comalco previously. I ask honourable senators to listen carefully to what I will now say. Instead of receiving $5m from stamp duty under this legislation, the Queensland Treasurer,  Mr Chalk,  could have secured for his Government $75m. If  Mr Chalk  had negotiated the same royalty rate as is paid by Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd for iron ore in Western Australia - that is  7i%  of the f.o.b. price - Queensland would have received $75m instead of $4m over the 12-year period of the contract. That is more than $6m a year, which is more than enough to cover the amount that  Mr Chalk  wants to raise from ordinary Queenslanders by way of receipts duty. It is a painless way in which Queensland could receive increased revenue. 
At present I have little sympathy for the State governments because I believe that they have - especially the Queensland Government - abdicated their responsibility. Let us consider the number of days that the Queensland Parliament has met. This is why I contend that the Queensland Government should not be supported by legislation of this kind to the detriment of the people of Queensland. The Queensland Parliament has met on 1 1 days since last November. The New South Wales Legislative Assembly has met on 16 days this year. 
The South Australian Parliament has met on 3 days. The Western Australian Parliament has a slightly better record and the Tasmanian Parliament is not doing so badly. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! I suggest,  Senator Georges,  that you come back to the provisions of the Bill. 
1 am dealing with the provisions of the Bill because I am indicating that there is an alternative source of income for the Queensland Government which makes it unnecessary for this legislation to be passed. We have been asked: Where else is the State to find the money? 1 am stating how the State can find it. Criticism of the Opposition for opposing this legislation is therefore quite poor. I have indicated that there has been a flight away from parliamentary responsibility, in Queensland in particular. If the States had accepted full responsibility the need for extra money would not have arisen. There has been a flight away from responsibility and the Queensland Government ought to accept this. Comalco was mentioned by way of interjection. This is an example where the Queensland Government has become subservient in its operations to the multi-national corporations. It has not placed sufficient emphasis on the raising of finance within its own boundaries to satisfy its requirements. How much has it become subservient? How much has it neglected its responsibilities? Not only have Ministers failed to accept responsibilities, as I have mentioned from time to time, but also the Queensland public servants who are responsible for seeking out means of raising income to obviate the necessity for a receipts tax have failed to accept the ethical standard that is required of public servants. I refer to the issue of Comalco shares in Queensland. I am trying to stir this Government into some activity. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order!  Senator Georges,  you will come back to the provisions of the Bill. 
1 am dealing with the provisions of the Bill. If the Queensland public servants looked carefully at the level of royalties paid in Queensland and lifted them to the rightful level, it would not be necessary to impose this tax. They have compromised themselves.  Sir David  Muir, Director of Industrial Development, received 1,200 preferential shares in Comalco. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Georges,  you will come back to the provisions of the Bill. You are getting right away from them. 
No, 1 am not. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The honourable senator will not question my ruling on this; he will get buck to the provisions of the Bill. 
J am a Queensland senator. I owe a responsibility to my home State and to the people of that State. I owe a greater responsibility to those people because the Queensland Government has abdicated to the extent that it has met not more than 1 1 days this year and it is necessary for me to expose what is happening in Queensland. How can I speak about this legislation, which I deem to be unnecessary, unless 1 point out why there has been a failure in this direction? 1 have mentioned one public servant, lt is only right that I mention the other 4 who are responsible for the position in which Queensland finds itself. One other is Charles Newton Barton, Co-ordinator General, who received 1,200 preferential shares.  Mrs Col Curtis,  who is the wife of the Agent-General, received 1.500 preferential shares. Incidentally,  Mr Col Curtis  was previously the Under Secretary of the Premier's Department.  Mrs Curtis  received substantially more shares than the Minister received.  Mr Keith  Spann, who is the Assistant Under-Secretary of the Premier's Department, received 1,200 shares. In other words, these people have compromised themselves lo these multination international concerns and have not the interests of the Queensland people at hean. Errol Ernest Schaeffer. Press Secretary to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  received 500 shares.  Mr Roy  H. Fields, Assistant UnderSecretary of the Treasury Department, received 1,233 preferential shares which, as I have stated before in this chamber, were in the nature of a gift. 
lt has quite a deal to do with the Bill because if the Queensland Government and Queensland public servants responsible for the running of the 
Stale took a close look at the finances of the State they would see to it that the State got sufficient royalties from these companies to provide sufficient income to remove any necessity to raise even lc by this kind of receipts tax. That is the point I make. They have repudiated their responsibilities and have compromised themselves. They have placed themselves at the mercy of 2 great international concerns. 
Immediately after the stamp duty legislation was introduced some time ago, Mount lsa Mines Ltd announced that it was making wmc internal reorganisation of its financial affairs to avoid paying stamp duty. The smalt concerns such as friendly societies and credit unions are required to pay this kind of duly, not only when members put money in but also when they take it out. That illustrates the complete iniquity of this type of legislation. I ask thai the Government accept it as iniquitous and accept that we intend to oppose it and to prevent its passage. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs aware that an Australian citizen,  Mr Antony  Vrettos, has been detained by Greek authorities in Athens? Can the Minister explain why the official version of this matter given by the Department of External Affairs conflicts sharply with the truth? Why is it that as recently as this morning the Department advised  Mrs Vrettos  that her husband had his passport returned and that he had freedom of movement when, in fact, he was still under close arrest and is to be subjected to investigation and questioning at 6 p.m. today? 
I will give the honourable senator the information that has been provided to me about  Mr Antony  Vrettos. I would suggest that, if  Senator Georges,  in his own right, has some information which he thinks has superseded the information I have, he might give me the source of his information. If he gives me the information he has, I will give it to the Department of External Affairs. The information, as I have it at the moment, is that early on the morning of 14th August the Department received inquiries from the Press asking whether it knew anything of  Mr Antonios  Vrettos, known as Antony or Tony Vrettos, who, it was claimed, had been detained temporarily in Athens. Inquiries were made immediately. It was learned from the Department of Immigration office in Darwin that this gentleman had telephoned from Athens to his wife in Darwin and had said that he had been detained for 24 hours, that his room had been ransacked and that his passport was missing. He had asked his wife to get in touch with the Immigration office and fix everything up. I understand that this gentleman called upon the Embassy in Athens on 12th August and protested that he had been unnecessarily detained and questioned by police, and that the police had searched his hotel room and taken his passport. 
On checking with the police the Embassy was told that  Mr Vrettos  had been removed from an international basketball match between Greece and Poland following an argument with other spectators. The police said that he was taken to the police station for 2 hours to cool off. The police claimed that they did not have his passport and would help him to find it.  Mr Vrettos  again contacted the Embassy on the morning of 17th August and stated that he had recovered his passport on Friday, 14th August. He stated that he had moved to the Odeon Hotel and intended to leave Greece on Friday, 21st August to visit the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. He said that he had telephoned his wife over the weekend - that is, 15th and 16th August - to say that he was all tight. He thanked the Embassy for its efforts on his behalf. However, the Embassy received a cable from  Mrs Vrettos  August. He stated that he had moved to the on 18th August inquiring about her husband's safety. 1 point out to the honourable senator that that is not very long ago. 
That is correct. 
In addressing a question to the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs I refer again to the Vrettos case. Why have officials of the Department of External Affairs not checked the information which I gave to them at approximately 10 a.m. this morning? If they have done so, why has the information not been added to the file from which the Minister read earlier? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONSenator Georges said that he gave information to the Department of External Affairs today at 10 a.m. and he wants to know why I have not been given a brief by 2 p.m.! I indicated in my previous answer to him that if he had any further information he should give it. Obviously he was holding out on me because he already had further information. However I have that information now and as the honourable member would expect, I have sought to check it out. I am informed that in another place the Minister for External Affairs has indicated that this morning his Department received information from other sources - perhaps  Senator George's  sources - that  Mr Vrettos  had been again detained. The Department immediately telephoned the Australian Embassy in Athens and instructed officials there to interview  Mr Vrettos  at his hotel and to do all in their power to ensure that his civil rights were protected. Representatives from the Embassy could not talk to him immediately because it was 2 o'clock or 3 o'clock in the morning. As soon as possible they will seek to see him and ask him if he wants any assistance. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
 During the period of Australian involvement in Vietnam, how many junior and senior Army officers from Malaysia have been transferred to Vietnam for the minimum qualifying period, to enable them to receive War Service benefits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
How many geophysicists have (a) been appointed to and (b) resigned from the Bureau of Mineral Resources in each year since 1964, including the available figures for this year. 
What are the salary ranges for geophysicists within the Bureau. 
asked the Minister  representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In view of the Treasurer's announcement, last December, that ex-service pensioners would benefit from distribution of surplus assets from the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund, what progress has been made in the distribution of these assets. 
How many ex-servicemen have benefitted from this distribution and what were the conditions of their entitlement. 
Payments due to eligible pensioners from surplus assets in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund have been completed with the exception of amounts due to estates and a few cases in which there is still a need to ascertain current addresses; the bulk of the distribution was completed before Christmas 1969. 
There were more than 5,600 eligible pensioners. The conditions of entitlement were set out in section 15' of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act (No. 3)1968; the main requirements were that a member should have become liable to contribute to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund before 4th December 1959 and have received pension from the Fund at any time during the period 1st July 1959 to 30th June 1964. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
On how many occasions, and on what dates, has the Australian Government made official protests to the French Government concerning French nuclear tests in the Pacific Ocean. 
On how many occasions, and on what dates has the French Government replied. 
What was the substance of these protests and replies. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Twice, on 17th May 1968, and 3rd April 1970. The Government's opposition to the tests has been stated on numerous occasions in this Parliament. 
No replies have been received. 
The honourable member is referred to a supplementary reply which I gave to a question without notice on 27th August 1968 (Hansard pages 310-311) and to a reply by the Minister for External Affairs to a question without notice on 7th April 1970 (Hansard pages 734-735). 
Are you talking about the Leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party? 
Concentrate on belter cities, says Whitlam. Too much attention is being paid to the wishes and needs of rural areas, and too little to the needs of the cities, the  Deputy  Leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, said last night. 
The article continues: 
Cities and civilisation go hand in hand.' he told the Sydney division of the Australian Planning Institute last night. 
By . . .  1 cannot read the word. 
You cannot read, period. 
By derivation, civilised men are those who live in cities - pagans are those who live in the country.' 
 I hope it is in bigger print. 
Majority representation of primary producers on all Boards affecting the handling and marketing of their products. 
Is not that done at present? Is there anything new about that measure that the Labor Party would introduce? The second point is: 
A Labor Government will, through the Reserve Bank, increase the capital of the Development Bank and arrange for the simplification of loan application procedure. 
What is new about that? 
Labor believes that access to long, medium and short term financial accommodation at low interest rates is desperately urgent. 
What is new about that? The fourth point is: 
A Labor Government, after consultation wilh the industry, would promptly introduce legislation for a Wool Reserve Price Scheme, approximating that proposed in 1965. 
In 1965 the growers in this country threw that scheme out, yet the Labor Party wants to introduce it. The fourth point continues: 
Co-operation and co-ordination of Reserve Prices would be sought with New Zealand and South Africa. 
This Government did that in 1950. The fifth point is: 
Labor has a positive proposal for the Dairying Industry, and would guarantee full protection to those farmers who, through resettlement programmes . . . 
I do not know what that means -   . . may be adversely affected. 
This Government has put into operation a dairy reconstruction scheme. What will the Labor Party do that will improve on that? 
Labor has a constructive policy for Soldier Settlers in financial difficulties through no fault of their own. 
I would not know what the constructive policy is. The next point is: 
Labor would continue to subsidise superphosphate and nitrogenous fertilisers. Price increases which absorb the subsidy would be investigated. 
We have superphosphate subsidies and nitrogenous fertiliser subsidies. The Department of Customs and Excise is investigating the manufacture of superphosphate to ensure that the subsidy is passed on to producers. What is new about this point from Labor's rural policy? This is the alternative government that the Labor Party is offering to the people. In other words, it is offering what this Government has put into operation. 
But far better. 

 Senator O'Byrne talked about the wool growers. To which group of wool growers was he referring? A small percentage of wool growers grow a large percentage of this country's wool. Does he mean that these growers will get assistance also? Does he mean that the Labor Party will introduce legislation which will give so many dollars for each pound of wool grown? Does that mean that a small percentage - the larger wool growers - will get the biggest percentage of the money that the Labor Party wishes to give to the wool growers? He did not tell us this. We have to presume how this money will be allocated and how much will be allocated. He said nothing about this. 
Opposition suggests in  its  motion relating to this matter  of  urgency  that the  only way out of  these  difficulties is  to have a  reconstruction plan. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Will the Minister instruct officers of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to make a submission to the Royal Commission on the Great Barrier Reef, to assist in establishing the Reefs present and future scientific value and its present and likely future importance in the fields of scientific research. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Will the Minister direct the Bureau of Meteorology to give evidence before the Royal Commission into oil drilling on the Barrier Reef, as to the likely effects of weather conditions, especially cyclonic upon any such drilling. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. I refer to the reasons for refusing to allow  Mr Gregory  to enter Australia. I ask: Is  Mr Gregory  the only person who has been refused entry? Is it not a fact that a Baptist minister has also been refused entry? Are the reasons for the refusal the same in both cases and are the Government's attempts to justify its actions also the same? 
Can the Minister  representing the Minister for Immigration tell the Senate how many Americans have been refused visas over the past 2 weeks and the names of those persons? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration explain the refusal to provide a visa to a  Mr R.  Meier of Southern Rhodesia? How can the Government justify this refusal in view of the continuing co-operation with Southern Rhodesia in other ways, especially in trade to the value of $3m a year? Will the Minister deny that this action is a petty attempt to balance out the refusal to grant visas to Dick Gregory and the Rev. McGraw of the United States? 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I ask the . Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it not generally accepted that the Jervis Bay nuclear power station is intended to provide an opportunity to develop the skills necessary for the design of a nuclear deterrent? If so, will the Government consider providing the cost from the defence funds and so free $130m for allocation to the States for legitimate power requirements? Will he consider giving priority to Queensland, the most deprived of the States? 
The honourable senator has made some assumptions and has put them in the form of a question. He said in effect that the nuclear power station proposed for Jervis Bay is designed to provide an outlet for the skills of the people involved so that they will be able to ensure production of a nuclear deterrent. This is a false assumption. It is true that we are to have a nuclear establishment at Jervis Bay. It is also true that we are in the process of providing an opportunity for scientists and technicians to work in this field in Australia. To that extent we are operating against the brain drain from Australia, but the Jervis Bay proposal has the purpose of providing nuclear power. It seems to me that everybody other than  Senator Georges  knows that that is its purpose. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
In view of the statements made by  Mr H.  J. de Bruin, a nuclear expert and former Principal Research Scientist with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to the  effect  that the establishment of the Jervis Bay nuclear power station could not be justified on economic grounds, and that as a pilot plant for the future nuclear development in Australia the $130m installation at Jervis Bay would be utterly extravagant, and in view of similar expressions of opinion which have been voiced against the economics of the power station and expounding the dangers of water and thermal pollution, will the Government delay acceptance of a tender until further expert investigation of  all  the possible contingencies has been undertaken. 
It seems that the Government has retreated from the debate. 1 grant that there is not much to defend in the Budget it has presented. But we would have thought that it would be the duty of the Government to maintain the business of the Senate. It seems that the Opposition must now provide  speaker  after  speaker,  witout any contribution by the Government, and maintain this debate. We do not hesitate to do so. 
I listened with interest to  Senator Lillico  who spoke effectively on the plight of the farmers. But it was a pity that he shifted his ground and began to lay all the blame for the position in which the farmers find themselves on the trade unionists and the trade union movement. He seemed to indicate that the costs the farmers have to meet are the result of actions by trade unionists and trade union organisations. But that is not so. It is the inflation that exists within the price structure which is responsible for the state we have reached. It is this galloping inflation which increases the costs of the farmers and places them, as the Australian Labor Party admits, in a serious situation. 

 Senator Lillico, and also other members of his Party, must be aware that, if the income of the worker is increased by a fraction and if the cost of the article he produces is increased by lc, because of the percentage-type additions to the cost, including the sales tax which this Government imposes very heavily and which it increased just recently, that increase of lc can be inflated to several cents. So the very small amount that the worker receives by way of a wage increase is taken away from him savagely by price increases. Whilst on the one hand the Government is prepared to place restraints on wages and to oppose wage increases, it has done nothing to place -restraints on price increases. Its attitude is exemplified by its recent action in the Northern Territory in opposing and disallowing regulations that would impose some price control on certain commodities. 
These cost increases, which are the result of faulty policy, place the farmer in the dreadful situation in which he finds himself today. Whereas the workers have the ability to wirthdraw their services and to demand some justice, the farmers are not in that situation although, by a very substantial protest march through the streets of Melbourne, they did endeavour to put their case. Unless the Government is prepared to review its policies and to place some importance on price restraint and profit margin control, it serves no purpose for members of the Liberal Party or the Country Party to rise and try to place the blame at the feet of the workers. By workers' I mean the industrial workers of the country. 
The factor which I believe hinders the cause of the farmers most of all is the coalition that exists between the Country Party and the Liberal Party. The Country Party, in supporting the Liberal Party, supports those who gain most, from the fanners' efforts. The Liberal Party supports the interest of those who control the distribution of the commodities that are produced in this country. Members of the Country Party are prepared to accept a coalition with a party that protects those interests. The costs of distribution of our primary products are far too high. Members of the Country Party would be well advised to look to their coalition partners and criticise them for their actions and the high margins of profit that are obtained on primary products, instead of looking across at us and accusing the ordinary basic wage employees of this country. 
It is this unhappy coalition between the Country Party and the Liberal Party which has hindered the economic development of this country. The reason is that the policies of the 2 parties clash; in clashing they neutralise one another; and, while they neutralise one another, outside exploiters and foreign investors fake over and control our interests. 
If the honourable senator wants to refer to the problems that exist within our party organisation at the present time, perhaps he should give some attention to the question  Senator Wheeldon  asked  Senator Drake-Brockman  concerning the conflict within the Country Party in Western Australia. There are divisions of opinion within each of the parties. But whilst ours are merely exercises, and sometimes exercises in semantics, the divisions that occur within the Government parties affect very much the future and the economic stability of this country. So, honourable senators opposite should look to themselves. 
The Budget needs to be attacked vigorously because it does nothing to provide for the ever-increasing areas of poverty that exist in this country. According to  Mr Justice  Nimmo - he has been quoted before and he will be quoted again - I million Australians live in poverty. Obviously the figure will vary according to what is chosen as the poverty line. The poverty line is much higher than most Australians have been accustomed to thinking it is. J. K. Galbraith calls people poverty stricken when their income, even if adequate for survival, falls markedly behind that of the rest of the community because they then cannot have what the larger community regards as the minimum necessary for decency and they cannot wholly escape the judgment of the larger community that they are indecent. I ask honourable senators to mark well that it is no longer possible for a man working 40 hours a week to keep his family decently, in comfort and in dignity and to provide for them. 
The line of poverty is where a person can live with decency and with dignity in this community. It is not a survival level. I believe that the Government considers it to be a survival level. It says: 'If you can survive and if you have sufficient nutritional supplies to live from one week to the other, that is good enough'. Incidentally, it is in this survival area that the people on fixed incomes, including the pensioners, have been placed. 
People who are living in poverty in this country are degraded in the literal sense of living outside grades or categories which the community regards as acceptable. The worst aspect of poverty in Australia is that most of it is not caused by some sudden family crisis such as illness but rather is inherited. Tt is passed on from generation to generation. It is particularly difficult for a person to break out of the area of poverty. The National Union of the Austraiian University Students statement on poverty reads: 
Children are born into a situation which is already one of chronic economic, social and intellectual disadvantage. Their families are already aware of defeat. 
They are beaten before they sturt. 
The fact that they faced the struggle with inadequate facilities and opportunities does not soften the frequent feelings of inferiority. 
In short, the children of the poor - and this is to be found in areas of Sydney in particular, and in Melbourne, in some areas of Adelaide, to a lesser extent in Brisbane and perhaps even to a lesser extent in Perth - are trapped in a circle of poverty. The most marked effect on their chances of breaking free is found in the denial of educational opportunities. 
There is limitation in education opportunity in this country at the present time, but 1 will deal with that later. According to  Dr Henry  Schoenheimer, for the child of a professional or senior executive family the chances of obtaining a tertiary education are 18 times higher than those of a child with semi-skilled or unskilled parents. Honourable senators cannot deny these figures. The cause of this is not only a lack of scholarships to universities and institutes of technology, but primarily a lack of scholarships to complete secondary school. Ft is in this area where more emphasis has to be placed. lt is strange that secondary scholarships seem to go to those people who least need them, The reasons for this are obvious. I think a survey is being carried out at present to see whether those who receive secondary scholarships actually need them. I know a little about this survey because it concerns my own child and children of friends of mine, lt has been found that scholarships were going to children of families which could economically afford to send their kiddies through secondary school and on to university. It is obvious that scholarships are going to those kiddies who are more aware and more intelligent but are not more aware and more intelligent because of any hereditary ability. It is because they have had more nutritional advantages in their younger days and because they have parents who are more aware, more understanding and better educated. The secondary scholarships, instead of flowing to those who really need mem to break out of what I term a circle of poverty, are going to those who need them least. This is the basis for the figures which show that the chances of obtaining a tertiary education are 18 times higher for a child who has professional or senior executive parents than they are for a child who has semi-skilled or unskilled parents. The children of the unskilled have not the same opportunities for enlightenment as those whose parents have had the advantage of secondary education and tertiary education. 
Housing costs are a second major component of the cycle of poverty. The advice which should be given to young people who want to buy a home these days is: Do not gel married. Stay unmarried for :is long as you can. You should both work and save your incomes. If you do get married you should continue to work and have no children. Do not make the mistake of getting married first and having .children because housing costs are such that you will never be able to obtain a home.' Those people who seek to do what society demands - to marry and raise a family as early as possible - are at a distinct disadvantage. They have not the economic ability to save even the deposit which is required to build a home or to take advantage of bank finance when it is readily available, it is not readily available at the present time. Even the $8,000 which is provided through the banks by way of building finance under the Government's policy is not readily available. The higher the cost of a home the higher is the deposit that is required. The person who is married and has a family but does not own a home has less chance of obtaining a home. What rent does he have to pay? In Brisbane today it would be very hard to get a cheap family flat for less than $16 to $20 a week. In a flat you cannot raise a family. Flat owners seem to object  to having as tenants couples who have children, so of necessity a family man who does not own a home must rent a house. To rent a house in the suburbs in Brisbane would cost from $25 to $30 a week or more, which lessens the ability of a man with a family to save sufficient to purchase a home.  1 ask the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  to look carefully at this and to consider increasing the amount of $8,000 to a reasonable amount for the building of a home so that it is not necessary for people to raise a large sum by way of deposit. I ask the Minister to consider the position of the person who in this community should be the most important - the man with a wife and family. The family is the most important single unit within society. The family should be assisted in as many ways as possible. There is no provision in this Budget by way of child endowment to assist the family. Rather, the Budget increases the taxes which flow indirectly and become a penalty on the family. It is anticipated that legislation will be introduced to increase receipts duties which will further escalate and inflate the costs of basic requirements for the family. 
Does this Budget concern itself with the problems of poverty and the low income earner? I say simply but accurately that it does not. Let me deal with social services. Almost without exception social service benefits expressed as a percentage of average earnings are lower now than when the present coalition parties came to power in 1949. This means that while the bulk of the community faces rising expectations - I still say that the bulk of the community is affluent but there is an increase in the area of poverty each year and we must concern ourselves with this increase because it can affect the stability of the whole economy - those on social services face the prospect of a continuing fall in their standard of living relative to the rest of the community. Australian society to-day is a good deal wealthier than it was in 1949 and it should be able to allow its social service beneficiaries at least to maintain their position. 
In this Budget we find that the 50c increase in benefits is not even sufficient to keep pace with the increased cost of living. The 50c a week increase to pensioners was so pathetic that rather than insult these people by giving them such a paltry increase it would have been better not to give them any increase. That any government could come to a decision to give an increase of 50c a week to people who are in extreme need is reprehensible. To think that the Government could fix a sum of 50c a week, which represents about 7c  a  day, is reprehensible. I think the Government must reconsider its attitude toward those on fixed incomes and particularly those who have to live on pensions. It must reconsider the position of a man who reaches 65 years of age and becomes entitled to a miserable pension but whose wife is below the pensionable age and receives nothing. In that situation 2 people have to live on $15.50 or thereabouts a week. I cannot conceive how any government could arrive at such a decision. 
As soon as possible the Government should provide some added subsidy which would alleviate the payment of rates and the cost of transportation and which would allow pensioners some rebate on car registration and give them other indirect benefits. If the Government is not prepared to help them directly, it should provide some indirect benefits. 
The indirect benefits are mainly by way of medical benefits, but such indirect benefits are useful only to the sick pensioner. The $15 a week which a pensioner receives is not sufficient for him to maintain any dignified way of life. I think the Government ought to have a close look at the matter and try to relate the pension to the basic level of earnings. The main criticism of the social service section of the Budget must be that it has failed to tackle the long overdue overhaul of the welfare system. Instead of recognising that a person is in need, and providing to meet this need, the rates of benefit seem to be based on how that person came to be in need. For example, an invalid pensioner gets $15.50 a week. A Totally and Permanently Incapacitated pensioner, who is in effect also an invalid, gets $38 a week. An unemployed adult gets $10 a week. A 17-year-old invalid pensioner gets $15.50 a week. An unemployed 17-year-old gets $4.50 a week whether he is living at home or away from home. I am trying to emphasise the need for a complete overhaul of our social service and welfare programme. Perhaps the rates are based on the worthiness of the assistance. I do not know. But it is of little use to the wife and 3 children of an unemployed man to know that the family would be getting more money to meet their needs if the husband was an invalid or a TPI pensioner. The needs of all people similarly placed are exactly the same, but our social welfare programme seems to indicate that there are some differences. What is required in Australia in our social service system, simply on the money level, is a determination of the needs of a family according to the size and rate of benefit adequate to meet their needs, regardless of whether the breadwinner suffered a setback due to poor seasons or loss of markets in the case of a farmer, or due to unemployment or physical incapacity. 1 refer now to taxation. At. present the minimum wage could hardly be claimed to be an adequate income for men with large families. Such men are not helped by this Budget in which the maximum tax cut of $500 per annum goes to the man with a taxable income of $16,000 a year. This is 25 times more than the reduction for the low income earner. There is no justice here. Justice should have been applied in the granting of taxation relief. Perhaps it is too much to expect of this Government that it should apply the ordinary rule of justice when it comes to providing for the needs of the ordinary people in the community. The ordinary low income earner is not helped by the present structure of tax deductions. Deductions for a wife and child, superannuation, health costs and so on are worth far more, to those on a high income than to those on a low income. This is self-evident. If the intention of tax deductions is to assist the lower income man with dependants, he would be much better off if deductions were abolished and the extra revenue raised given back either as a form of negative taxation or as drastically increased child endowment. 
I come back to this subject of child endowment. The Government has not seen fit to recognise the needs of families. In effect, it has not recognised the existence of families; rather it has tended to place importance on large scale and expensive immigration programmes and deprive Australia of the best source of population - that is the children born in this country. The Government has not recognised the needs of families for extra income. It would be far better if no tax deductions were allowed and if families were subsidised in some direct way; then those who are able to pay would be able to meet the needs of those who are in a much less fortunate position. The society is a society as a whole; it does not consist of just the affluent, it consists of the  afTluL.it  and the poor. The sooner we spread the income of this country across the whole range of people the better. We should give to those who require. The affluent would still have more than they really require. If the increased amounts of child endowment were taxed, this revenue could be redistributed back to where it is most needed. 
The disadvantage of a flat rate  tax  deduction  is  that it gives most money  to  the wealthy. In this Budget the Government has added to that. It has given more money to the wealthy and less to those on lower incomes. The disadvantage  of  flat rate benefits such as child endowment is that they are the same regardless of need. They should at least be taxed. This way the  rate  could he increased without increasing the net cost to Consolidated Revenue. Low income families would receive higher net benefits especially if tax  scales  were revised equitably, lt  is  well known that inflation has shifted upwards the percentage of real income paid as  tax  since scales were last changed in 1954-55. I  suggest  that the best thing that  could  happen to low income earners in Australia would be for the tax scale to be revised  so  as to decrease the burden on low income  earners.  1 would urge the abolition of  tax  deductions and the use of money saved  by  this manner  or  by any other manner to pay to low income families such amounts  as are  necessary to ensure that they can enjoy a decent standard of living. This would apply whether the head of the family was working or not. whether he  was a  farmer or a cleaner. There may  be some  objections to  the  abolition of deductions, but surely they defeat the whole purpose of a progressive income tax scale. 
If any member of the Government is prepared to indicate that he would like  to  join the debate, I will shorten my remarks. As I indicated earlier,  it  seems that the Opposition has to carry on the business of the Senate. If I wished, I could introduce into my speech on the Budget a little about Cambodia. I would like to speak on the subject of Vietnam. On 2 previous occasions when I spoke during the Budget debate I ignored the importance of our foreign policy in the way it affects the whole of our cost structure. I will leave that until another time. I have strong views about the situation in Cambodia. We have heard points of view expressed by those who visited Cambodia recently. They have reinforced their attitude by a first hand view of the situation. I would have been more convinced if they had left the beaten path. There are contrary stories as to what is happening in Cambodia. There are some fears that we might go back into Cambodia. There are some people who say that we left Cambodia at this stage because of the inclement weather. 
I have read the circulated statement which put the widely published views of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  What I have said is that those who went to Vietnam and Cambodia during a recent visit to South East Asia should perhaps have left the beaten track. Perhaps they should have gone out into the countryside and the villages. Perhaps they should have met not only those on the government side but also those who resist. If they had done this perhaps they would have returned with a balanced story. But at another time I shall be prepared to enter into a debate on Cambodia, Vietnam, South East Asia, the Middle East or any other areas of conflict and to answer any argument that the Government is prepared to advance. The tragedy of the situation is that it is not just a matter of words at this stage. If we were talking about these matters, we could amicably agree to discuss them across the table. But while we argue and dispute, people are being injured in Vietnam. A nation is in the process of continual destruction. We are faced with a war which is escalating. We are faced with a situation where violence now seems to be the answer which is sought to solve problems - whether that violence be inflicted by the Israelites or the Arabs or the North Vietnamese or the South Vietnamese or the Cambodians or the Russians or the Americans- 
The violence that has occurred in the streets of Australia is isolated and does not compare in any way with the major violence in Vietnam for which this Government is responsible. Our intervention and our stupid political thinking in 1954 caused the first violence and has perpetuated the continuing violence. How can one compare the odd incidents of violence in Australia with the violence which we have inflicted upon one of the smallest nations in the world? 
Violence is a matter of degree, but when one is at the centre of the violence it becomes much more than a matter of degree because the degree is measured in pain. 
I am tempted to answer that question.  Mr President,  I could save quite an amount of the Senate's time if I were given leave to incorporate in Hansard an article from I. F. Stone's biweekly of 18th May 1970. If I am permitted I will incorporate in Hansard pages 1, 2, 3 and 4 in order to enable honourable senators opposite to hear an alternative view of our intervention in Cambodia. I seek leave to incorporate those pages in Hansard. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to a report in the London 'Times' of 15th September, which was republished in a Melbourne newspaper, that Russia will be the main naval power in the Indian Ocean within a few years? If the Minister's attention has not been drawn to that report, will he ascertain the degree of truth in it, especially the section which alleges agreement with and support given to Russia by the United States of America? As the Government's policy is directly opposed to Russian presence in the Indian Ocean, will he treat this investigation as urgent? 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. What is the Government's reaction to the resolution passed yesterday by the General Assembly of the Australian Presbyterian Church calling for the Commonwealth to give corporate ownership of all Aboriginal reserves in Australia to Aboriginals? Did the Assembly support the Gurindjis in their claim for 500 square miles of Wave Hill land and the general claims for Aboriginal land rights? Will the Government now take notice of the rising tide of public opinion in favour of restoration of land rights to the Aboriginals or will it continue to be steered by the Country Party rump which has its giant pastoral interests to protect? 
The honourable senator has asked whether the Government has taken a decision in relation to a resolution which presumably was passed yesterday by the General Assembly of the Australian Presbyterian Church. Quite obviously governments do not make simultaneous judgments on resolutions carried by various bodies, however august those bodies might be. Some of these august bodies from time to time carry extraordinary resolutions, and I do. not exclude the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church when I make that statement. Any matter of Government policy is primarily within the responsibility of the Minister who administers the appropriate portfolio. Tn the natural course of events a Minister would observe with some interest any resolution which expressed a point of view and he would tend to equate that with Government policy. It would be just one more item that he would examine in relation to Government policy. We cannot accept  Senator Georges'  proposition that because a body has carried a resolution that should be a determining factor in establishing Government policy. If we were to do so we would have some extraordinary results, in view of some resolutions that have been carried. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise: Has there recently been a major theft of dangerous drugs from a pharmaceutical wholesaler, involving the fantastic amount of 4 million doses? If so, when will details be supplied as to how the theft occurred, how such a large quantity of this specific drug was accumulated by the wholesaler and what steps are being taken to recover the drugs? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: fs it a fact that 2 major meat exporting firms have objected to the increasing demands of United States health authorities and have refused to co-operate with them? Is it also a fact that because of this development the senior United States veterinary inspector has been urgently recalled to the United States for instructions? Does there now arise a likelihood of future disruption of our meat exports because of this conflict? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Are Commonwealth meat inspectors now being forced to take their annual leave? If so, why has there been a sudden reversal of policy when only a few weeks ago a Commonwealth meat inspector in Queensland was forced to resign so that he could take his long service leave? 
Is the Leader of the Government aware of the strong public reaction of Australians to the disqualification of 'Gretel H' and the anti-American feeling generated by the incident? Will he admit that the silent majority upon which the Government so often depends for support of its policies has at last been aroused? Will the Government take advantage of the situation and detach itself from American policy and  so  withdraw from Vietnam? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I trust he will not consider it as pathetic as my previous question. Is the Government aware of the public circulation of a booklet titled 'The Vestey Story', which gives chapter and verse of the massive inroads made by the Vestey group into Australia's commercial life? Does the booklet state that the Australian Aboriginal poetess Kain Walker, on a recent visit to London, questioned Lord Vestey about the refusal of his company to return tribal land on Wave Hill station to the Gurindji tribe? Did Lord Vestey, according to the booklet, tell  Mrs Walker  that Vestey's interests in 
Australia were in very good hands as far as politics were concerned - those of  Mr Peter  Nixon, Minister for the Interior? Will the Government refute these alarming allegations that a Minister controlling Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory is looking after the interests of a foreign owned company, and will it do so in the most effective way, that is by granting the Gurindjis the land rights they seek at Wave Hill? 
I ask the Minister  representing  the Minister for Defence the following  question  which  I  placed  on  the notice paper on  10th  June: 
Did Vice-President Ky state that South Vietnamese troops will remain in action in Cambodia after the American withdrawal; if so, will this not further delay the withdrawal of Australian troops from South Vietnam. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As the honourable senator is doubtless aware  President  Nixon, in his statement of 30th June 1970 about the allied operations in Cambodia referred to two basic principles which he was confident would govern the actions of those nations helping Cambodia: 
They will be at the request of and in close concert with the Cambodian Government. 
They will not be at the expense of those nations' own defence, indeed they will contribute to their security which they see bound up with events in Cambodia. 
The  President  went on to recall that in a speech of 27th June 1970,  President  Thieu had emphasised that his government will concentrate on efforts within South Vietnam; that his country will always respect the territory, borders, independence and neutrality of Cambodia and will not interfere in its internal politics; and that the South Vietnamese Government does not advocate stationing troops permanently in Cambodia or sendng the South Vietnamese Army to fight the war for the Cambodian Army. 1 announced on 20th August last that the 8th Battalion will be withdrawn from South Vietnam in November. As previously stated by the Prime Minister for the future the question of further withdrawals will be kept under review. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What has been the total amount, to date, of (a) loans, and (b) grants by the Commonwealth to residential colleges at (i) the University of Queensland, (ii) Cook University, (iii) Queensland Teachers Colleges, and(iv) Queensland Institutes of Technology. 
What assistance has been given to other forms of student housing. 
After listening to tonight's debate in Committee one can realise the complexity of the regulations which govern social services and the nature of the assistance which is given under those regulations. The point I want to bring forward is the necessity for the Department to give the fullest advice to those who may be entitled to benefit under the Act. It is necessary that the literature which is issued by the Department should be clear as to the benefits which are available. That literature should be distributed to all who may be entitled to gain some benefit. 
It is necessarly also for the departmental officers concerned to approach the matter with extreme courtesy, especially when in many cases applications are made by older people who sometimes have lost their confidence and have become timid. I was disturbed that in Brisbane on a couple of occasions applicants for benefits under the social service legislation were not treated with the courtesy which they should have received. Blind pensioners were concerned in both cases. I ask the Minister to assure me that when anyone applies for a benefit the departmental officers will inform the applicant clearly of his entitlement, treat him with the utmost courtesy and give him the benefit of any doubt as to his eligibility. The situation which arose on 2 occasions in Brisbane should not have occurred. It is lamentable that when a man took his blind wife to the Department of Social Services in Brisbane to inquire about a pension he was so upset by the treatment he received that he said he would have nothing to do with the Department and refused to accept any assistance. Rather he said that he would continue to work beyond his 65th year. 
I am sure the Minister would agree with me that a situation such as that should not occur. These people are not asking for charity; they are asking merely for assistance to which they are entitled after a very long period of work for the whole community. If this is occurring in other States I impress upon the Minister the necessity to send out an instruction that pensioners and applicants for social service benefits should be treated with extreme courtesy. The attitude should not be adopted that all people applying for benefits are trying in some way to get something for nothing, that they are trying to deceive the Department, that they are trying to bide some information. I would expect that each person when he reaches pensionable age, when he is ill or when he is incapable would receive the utmost consideration. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (9.58)  -  I have noted the points raised by  Senator Georges  and I can assure him that we all want those who are interviewing people about pensions to give the applicants the utmost courtesy and assistance possible. I believe that usually that is done. 1 have had excellent reports from people who have been shown every consideration and courtesy. The honourable senator has mentioned certain cases. We all know that there are occasions when someone perhaps does not show the desired courtesy but 1 can assure him that it is the wish of the Minister and of the Department that all officers show the utmost consideration and courtesy to those who come to see them concerning pension benefits. I pay a tribute also to the welfare officers, the social workers who really do a first class job. I have had a lot to do with them through the years. I have seen their care, consideration and gentleness with old people, people who are worried and distressed and so on. I can assure the honourable senator that it is our desire that everyone be given a very courteous hearing and every consideration. He also mentioned that matters should be given full publicity. My understanding is that this is being done more and more. More and more publications are going out, regular publications are going out and information has been given on television at different times. Certainly this is being done more and more. But I believe that the point the honourable senator makes is a good one. It is important that this knowledge be made available. I shall see that the Minister notes the points the honourable senator has raised. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 I wish to raise a matter which has caused me some concern. It occurred today and involves not only myself but also  Senator Keeffe.  In the Queensland Parliament in answer to a question by one of the members of his own Party the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  gave what was obviously a prepared reply because at the time he gave it he also distributed copies to members of the Press gallery. I will read the answer so that all honourable senators will be familiar with the subject matter about which I want to speak.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said: 
I am glad the honourable member has raised this question. While 1 must point out that matters relating to the Crimes Act and the National Service Act are essentially a Commonwealth responsibility 
I am afraid I do not have the text of the question but the answer discloses what the question must have been. The answer continues:  . . I must say that I am astounded that the ALP should countenance in its ranks two senators who are paid by the Government to uphold democratic government and our free way of life but who spend their time promoting disloyalty to the ideals and laws of our country. 
I ask the honourable senator to wait a moment and let me continue. 
If the honourable senator will allow me to continue I will enlarge on that when 1 have finished reading the answer. It continues: lt is revealing to see their association with organisations which are either infiltrated or dominated by Communist influences. To name but a few I might mention that  Senator Georges  has within the last 2 years been associated as an active participant with the Brisbane branch of the Australian USSR Society- 
The Premier means the Friendship Society - the Conference to End the Vietnam War (a front of another Communist body, the Peace Council), the Brisbane Committee for Democracy in Greece and has actively assisted in the organisation of two Vietnam Moratorium Campaigns. A brief outline of  Senator Keeffe's  anti-democratic activities must also be of interest to the House. In 1967 he was a  speaker  at an all-night vigil outside the American Consulate in Melbourne in an antiVietnam demonstration. Members will recall his attendance at an interracial seminar in Townsville. In the same year he participated in the Hiroshima rally organised by the Queensland Peace Council which I have already indicated is a Communist body. In 1968 he was associated wilh the civil liberties march in Brisbane which was of course infiltrated by Communists.  Senator Keeffe  has also been actively associated with the two Vietnam Moratorium demonstrations this year.  Senator Keeffe  has also promised his wholehearted support for the treason room in Townsville. Surely the foregoing is a sickening survey of the activities of two members of our Federal Parliament - of two who are supposed to have at heart in the Commonwealth sphere the welfare of this State and the interests of Queensland. 
The Premier concludes: 
I give the House and the electorate at large an assurance here and now - these subversive elements will be closely watched by my Government in the future and their activities against decency and democracy exposed. 
I have checked and found that aside from this statement by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  he also made a couple of ad lib remarks. After naming the organisations with which I have been associated in the last 2 years the Premier said: 
These are just a few things with which  Senator Georges,  who has changed his name three times, has been associated. 
I admit that on matters of political issues over the past 6 or 7 months I have been particularly caustic of the actions of the Queensland Government and especially of the Queensland Premier in connection with the Great Barrier Reef, the crown of thorns problem, the Cooloola sands issue and the royalties on mining exploitation. This action became necessary because the Queensland Parliament had met for only 
II days between November last year and this present session. I must admit that on a couple of occasions the attacks were fairly severe but they were political attacks, not personal attacks. 

 Mr Chalk, the Queensland Treasurer, in response to these attacks took me to task and it was reported widely in the Queensland papers that I was a person who had dishonoured his father because I had shortened my name. This was the personal level to which  Mr Chalk  descended in response to an attack I had made in this chamber during the debate on the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill when I indicated that other means were available by which Queensland could obtain revenue instead of imposing this iniquitous receipts tax.  Mr Chalk  descended to a personal attack and insulted me because I adopted a procedure which my family had used for years of normalising the name which my family had used in business from time to time. I adopted 'Georges' instead of the 
Greek 'Georgouras' which was unpronouncable at first sight in English and was also unpronounceable in Greek. But  Mr Chalk  took me to task on this and accused me of disloyalty to my father and my family. He also made other references to Communist influence and half-baked political attitudes,  i  I ignored that. I did not raise it. If he was prepared to descend to personalities, by all means let him. That was his problem. The  j  fact that he had insulted many migrants ; who have normalised and Anglicised their names was a matter that he had to face. 
Subsequently  Mr Camm,  the Queensland Minister for Mines and Main Roads, made another personal attack upon me but not on the issues F had raised concerning the acceptance of Comalco shares by Ministers or the Premier's share holding in Exoil NL, a company which has oil exploration leases which go across the Great Barrier Reef. I received no answer on these issues. Obviously  Mr Camm  had access to some records held by the special police in Brisbane which included a dossier on my associations going back to 1945. The Minister gave a history of the youth organisations to which I belonged. He mentioned the Randall Youth Society. He forgot the Hellenic Youth Society and the Comrades of St George which happens to be a Church of England society. He merely mentioned that at one meeting I objected strongly to the expulsion of a political group called the Eureka Youth League because I believed that if political groups were to be on the Associated Youth Committee this league should not be expelled because of its political associations. T took this stand some 20-odd years ago. Yet  Mr Camm  was able to refer to that and other matters which had occurred over that period of time. He forgot to mention that for almost 2 years I was an organiser for the youth section of the Australian Red Cross. 
But those things do not concern me. They seek out those things which can discredit a person personally. What I object to in this latest attack by  Mr BjelkePetersen  is his inference of disloyalty and subversiveness to this country. 1 strongly object to this. More than that, I object to the intimidation implied in the last .paragraph - the intimidation of a senator representing Queensland in the carrying out of his duties. He indicated in the last para graph that the Queensland Government would keep me under close surveillance. I do not doubt that it will use the same methods as it used to document the fact that I attended one meeting of the USSR Friendship Society. I was invited to that weekend seminar for the purpose of speaking on co-operatives in Australia. I attended a meeting of that particular society on one occasion and yet the Premier of Queensland is able to refer to it. 
I attended a conference here in Canberra  -  I. am not ashamed of it - aimed at ending the Vietnam war. All honourable senators hope by some way to end this war. We all endeavour to reach some point where we can end this war. We approach this objective in different ways but each of us sincerely would like to see the end of the Vietnamese war. We demonstrate and protest because we are the Opposition. The Government seeks to achieve the end of the war by other means, lt seeks it by the attitude it adopts at peace conferences. The Government has high hopes  -  I think they are vain hopes - of endeavouring to reach a peaceful conclusion of the Vietnam war. 
No, 1 do not agree with that. I am not going to enter into that particular argument. All I am stating is that I attended a conference here in Canberra and I was not in any way subversive or disloyal. My attendance is noted in  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  dossier on me. I also advocate the restoration of democracy in Greece and I attended conferences of the committee which seeks that objective. No one on either side of the chamber would deny the desirability of having democracy in Greece or in any other place, yet according to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  this is an indication of subversiveness and disloyalty. The Queensland Premier went further and said that I took part in the organisation of 2 Vietnam Moratoriums. Most certainly I did. ff f had not taken an active part in those Moratoriums the thing which this Government and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  hopes for - violence in the streets - may have occurred. Withdrawal of important people from these functions leads to the disorders which some people hope for. I think that 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen was a precursor of violence in Queensland. 
Today. 
He made them under privilege in the Parliament of Queensland. It is convenient for  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to forget the campaigns that were waged and meetings I attended - and which were attended mostly by those who are normally his supporters, members of the Country Party and the Liberal Party - in relation to the Great Barrier Reef. He forgets that I attended those meetings also and that we struggled and fought to establish a moratorium on the Great Barrier Reef. He did not mention those meetings; he merely mentioned those which to his mind were evidence of disloyalty and subversiveness. I raise this matter because I feel- 
The comments and criticisms I made about  Mr BjelkePetersen's  personal share dealings were in the interests of the people of Queensland and of Australia. That was fair enough. 
He said I changed my name on 3 previous occasions instead of on one occasion. This shows the level to which the criticism has descended. My criticism of share holdings related to the future of the Great Barrier Reef. It was on that level that my criticisms were made. Surely those are political issues. The interests of State members of Parliament are, when they conflict with their public duty, the interests not only of the State Parliament, of Queensland and of myself as a Queenslander, but also of this Parliament because we too have responsibilities.  Mr President,  the portion of the statement to which I strongly object is the inference that the Queensland Government, using the methods by which it compiled a dossier on me in the past, will now supervise my activities as a senator for Queensland. I believe this to be intimidation of a member of the Senate and I strongly object to it. In due course I shall take action concerning this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many geophysicists have graduated from each Australian university in each year since 1964. 
What has been the 'drop-out' rate from courses in Geophysics in each Australian university in each year since 1964. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister forExternal Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of a report in the London 'Times' of 15th September 1970, that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics will soon be the main naval power in the Indian Ocean, will the Minister make a statement to Parliament on the degree of truth in the report, especially that section which alleges that there has been agreement with and support given to the USSR by the United States of America. 
As the Government's policy is directly opposed to a Russian presence in the Indian Ocean, will he treat the matter as urgent. 
The Acting Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
and (2) I have read the report referred to. I do not propose to comment on a speculative newspaper article, except to say that the Australian Government has no knowledge of any agreement or understanding between the United States of America and the USSR concerning the level of Soviet naval forces in the Indian Ocean. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that two major meat exporting firms have objected to the increasing demands of United. States health authorities and have refused to co-operate with them. 
Is it also a fact that because of this development the senior United States veterinary inspector has been urgently recalled to the United States for instructions. 
Does there now arise a likelihood of future disruption of our meat exports, because of this conflict. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is  Mr Gregory  the only person who has been refused entry into Australia for the reason stated in the Senate on 2nd September. 
Has a Baptist minister also been refused a visa for entry into Australia; if so, are the reasons for this refusal the same as those given for refusing entry to  Mr Gregory,  and does the Government justify this action in a similar manner. 
and (2) An' application for a visa was lodged with  Mr Gregory's  application by one James Robert McGraw, who was born on 3rd December 1935 and who showed his occupation as clergyman at the Colombia Baptist Church, New York. Each application was for a 2 week visit to Australia; the purpose was shown as sightseeing' and the proposed travel itinerary in each case provided for arrival in Perth on 13th September 1970. 
The applications were considered in conjunction and were refused as stated in the Senate on 3rd September 1970. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has there recently been a major theft of dangerous drugs from a pharmaceutical wholesaler involving the fantastic amount of 4 million doses; if so, when will details be supplied as to how the theft occurred, how such a large quantity of this specific drug was accumulated by the wholesaler and what steps are being taken to recover the drugs. 
I appreciate the request made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate so I will abbreviate my question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. It concerns the theft of drugs in New South Wales. In brief, does the Minister appreciate the gravity of the situation? Is he aware that large surpluses of the drug in question have been accumulated because of recent State legislation? Will the Department take action urgently to have the surpluses destroyed to prevent any further theft of this dangerous drug? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Prime Minister have investigations undertaken to see whether regulation 37 of the Public Service Regulations has been breached during the recent issue of Comalco shares. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Public Service Board has been advised by the Attorney-General's Department that Regulation 37 of the Public Service Regulations would not make it an offence for an officer to take up shares in Comalco in circumstances of the recent issue. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, lt follows  Senator Mulvihills  question about hydatids. Is the Minister aware that the Queensland Cabinet, on the submission of the Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  granted permission to graziers to slaughter drought affected sheep for dog food? Is the Minister aware that permission has been granted to use kangaroo slaughtering facilities for this purpose mid that these are not subjected to strict health regulations? Is the Minister aware that the spread of the dreadful and insidious disease hydatids, over a wide area, has been greatly facilitated by completing the chain of infection from sheep to dog to human? Will the Minister take urgent steps to investigate and report on this possibility? 
That State had one of the lowest rates. The honourable senator has raised some very interesting points. I will endeavour to obtain a detailed reply for him. 
asked the Minister  in charge of Tourist Activities, upon notice: 
Who are the owners of. each of the tourist resorts on islands or cays in the area of the Great Barrier Reef. 
If any of the owners are companies which are subsidiaries of other companies what are the names of the parent companies. 
J am stirred to take part in this debate by the remarks of  Senator Marriott  who. seemed to indicate that the services to Tasmania are suitable, efficient and effective as far as Tasmanians are concerned. However,  Senator Devitt  seemed to cast considerable doubt on this. I can speak with some knowledge of the conditions which exist in Queensland. I believe they necessitate an improvement in airline facilities and airline operations. Having listened to the debate tonight I am of the opinion that some further consideration ought to be given to the amendment moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I for my part cannot see any reason why some time cannot be given for this consideration. 1'he  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - You are speaking to the amendment? 
I am speaking to the Bill and to the amendment. I do not doubt that I will make some general references to both. Before I do so I would like to mention the problems we face in Queensland which necessitate an overall improvement in airline services. In particular 1 want to refer to the airport of Gladstone, f had hoped that by this time the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  would have had a chance to inspect the Gladstone facilities and to come back with some report, some statement, which would give hope to the people of Gladstone that the airport might be improved. The conditions of this airport are such that on one occasion it was necessary for the passengers who were to he transported from Gladstone to go out on to the tarmac and physically move one of the aircraft into position for take-off. This did not happen 20 years ago; it happened some few months ago. 
The facilities at Gladstone and many airports in Queensland, especially those further north and approaching Thursday Island, such as the airport at Weipa and the one on Horn Island, demand that something be done to improve the conditions. This is particularly so in the case of Gladstone because it is a town which is improving rapidly. Great industrial development is taking place and, if honourable senators will recall, some time ago wa passed legislation to assist in the establishment of a major power station at Gladstone. But Gladstone is also an important tourist airport, lt was lamentable for me to see almost 100 tourists standing out in the sun without any cover whatsoever waiting for transport to take them either to the city of Gladstone or across to the tourist islands. 
 J would say the honourable senator's interjection supports my argument that the facilities at airports throughout Australia are not as they should be. In Queensland in particular they fall far short of demand. Therefore it is with interest that 1 notice that the legislation provides for overseas aircraft to bc charged a lower rate for facilities than internal aircraft. I am of the opinion that we pay too much attention to, and spend far too much money on, facilities for overseas aircraft to the disadvantage of internal airlines. Anyone who has to suffer the inconvenience of the airport at Melbourne and the inconvenience of the Sydney airport will realise that the domestic airlines are suffering considerably. We had hoped that we would have had some indication by now when the new airport facilities would be built in Brisbane. In spite of the expenditure of much money on the Brisbane airport, it is already overcrowded. One merely has to spend a few hours there on a Sunday when a couple of international flights come into Brisbane to realise just how over-congested is the Brisbane airport. 
The noise problem is causing some concern. However, it is intended that aircraft take off out across the Bay and in some way avoid the suburbs. It is an increasing problem but J believe that as a result of the investigations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise some improvements have been made to facilities in Brisbane and, 1 believe, in Sydney. However, the congested state of the Brisbane airport demands that the programme which has been laid down by the Department of Civil Aviation be expedited. Of course, it cannot be expedited unless money is provided, and no-one denies that the airlines should in some way provide some of the finance for this expansion. The overall programme for the development of the airports in Queensland, as I have suggested - 1 would like to emphasise this to the Minister - has fallen far behind schedule.  had hoped that by now the Minister would have presented some sort of forward programme for the development of these airports in Queensland. It seems to me an ad hoc sort of arrangement that air navigation charges should be raised without at the same time presenting some future programme for development and some indication of how charges would be related to the improvements. However, this has not been done. 
I would like to come back to the point that was made earlier by the Opposition thai because of the points brought forward by the various speakers tonight, and possibly because of the amendment moved by the DLP, some further time is required for consideration of the whole of this legislation. I do not want to bring to the mind of the Senate - I do not doubt we will have need to complain about it later - the fact that there is no need for any exorbitant or unnatural haste in the passing of the legislation, because I believe that we are going to sit for a period of almost 4 consecutive weeks. 
No, there is no need for haste because we can carry through a considerable amount of legislation in the days that remain. I assure the Government that we do not require any extensive time to enable us to carry out a suitable campaign which will give us a sufficient addition to the number of senators on the Opposition side to gain the control of this House which the country needs so desperately. Then we will be able to take the initiative and bring forward legislation, or even obstruct legislation which comes from the other place, for the eventual betterment of conditions in this country. 
1 had not intended to contribute to the debate because I felt that by now the Opposition, or at least the Government - 1 always term it the Opposition because it is in opposition to us in this context - I shall use that word, if 1 may, which is often used by you,  Mr Acting Deputy President  - and now I find myself unable to complete the sentence. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Many honourable senators have found themselves in that situation before you, so you may continue. 
But they have not been prepared to admit it and to apologise. Although  Senator Rae  has indicated that I have not contributed much to this debate, perhaps f have gained sufficient time to enable us to consider this problem further so that we will not have to come to a hasty decision. I have had an indication from a fellow senator that he intends to speak in this debate and 1 would hate to deprive him of the opportunity to do so. 
No-one denies the right of governments to raise revenue, but one questions the need to raise revenue on this occasion. It is the method of raising revenue to which we are strongly opposed. I question also the need in this case to raise $29m by increasing from 25 per cent to 271 per cent the sales tax on a wide variety of articles.  Senator Greenwood  indicated that the need to raise this revenue had been brought about by certain income tax reforms which the Government has carried out. The Government carried out these reforms in a rather irresponsible and spectacular way. If 1 correctly recall the promises which the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  made he said that there would be income tax reductions to the extent of $60m for those in the middle income group. However, in typical fashion, the Prime Minister made tax reductions right across the scale including incomes of more than $10,000 a year. The amount of revenue which the Government has lost by giving income tax relief to people who receive over $10,000 is $28m, which is $lm less than the Government expects to raise by way of this legislation. I would therefore suggest that there was no need to impose increased sales tax. 
The method by which the Government intends to raise this additional revenue is. as has been stated by the Opposition, an iniquitous one. Under the method of indirect taxation the Government extracts money from the pockets of the people without them being conscious of what is happening, except at the time the lax is announced. I have spoken against the inequity of sales tax from the very moment I entered this chamber 2 years ago. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  who represents the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in this chamber, will recall that I objected strongly to the fact that 15 per cent sales tax was being imposed on children's school books. That tax is still being imposed. This item comes under another schedule of the sales tax legislation. However, the motive is exactly the same. Sales tax is an unjust tax and it is inflationary. I do not care what  Senator Greenwood  has said; the fact is that an increase of 21 per cent in sales tax means that the price of goods to the consumer rises by more than that figure. Retailers do not object to an increase in sales tax. They make a profit of 50 per cent, 60 per cent, 75 per cent or even 100 per cent, on retail sales and higher sales tax on wholesale prices means higher profits. 
lt makes a considerable difference overall. The Government has indicated that it expects to derive $29m from this legislation. This $29m will be an  imposition on the  whole of the community, lt will be an added imposition on the 25 per cent rate which the Government has already imposed. The sales tax goes up and up; it never comes down. The sales tax imposed on certain items has been increased from 121 per cent to 15 per cent and in this from 25 per cent to 271 per cent, lt will never be decreased. Sales tax is an imposition on the cost structure. The cost structure forces up the price of the goods. The prices start to impose further pressures throughout the community. It is these pressures which the Government has continually complained about. These are the pressures which necessitate the workers and the farmers demanding increased wages and returns on their commodities. It is these pressures which are causing so much unrest in the community. 
The Opposition indicated early in this session by way of questioning of the Leader of the Government that the Trade Practices Act ought to be properly implemented and the States ought to introduce complementary legislation so that there will be some form of profit control. In other words, the Opposition believes that profit margins should come under some sort of supervision. At present there is no supervision whatever of profit margins and there is no supervision of the arrangements which are made by some firms to fix their own price levels. There is nothing to prevent firms from making a profit on sales tax. The Leader of the Government ridiculed the suggestion that there should be such a thing as price control. I think he would be prepared to go even further and ridicule profit control, which is what it should be called. Unless there is some steadying influence over the movement of prices and unless the Government accepts responsibility for not injecting further costs into the price structure we are going to have an ever increasing inflationary spiral and an increase in the prices of basic necessities. As I have said sales tax is inflationary. A grocer who buys a delivery van will pass the cost on to the consumer. lt is necessary in Australia to have some responsibility accepted by the Government for profit control. 

 Senator Greenwood said that no suggestion had been made by the Opposition as to how to raise the required revenue in another way. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  referred to the wasted expenditure on a particularly unnecessarywar. He referred also to the unnecessary expenditure on VIP aircraft. He indicated how money could be saved in many ways by avoiding the tremendous wastage which occurs in defence procurement, particularly on items such as the Fill aircraft. However, there is another way in which money could be raised in Australia. In fact, far more than the $29m which the Government is endeavouring to raise by way of this iniquitous indirect tax could be raised. I refer to the imposition of some form of taxation on share transactions. This changeover of money from one person to another does not add one iota to the productivity of the company to which the shares belong. The money merely changes hands. If the Government were to impose some form of taxation on share turnover it would rapidly derive the amount of money which it seeks through increased sales tax. In fact, I believe that if a tax had been imposed on this form of transaction the changeover of shares in the Poseidon scandal - and I call it a scandal because it was a scandal - alone would have resulted in the Government deriving income equal to the amount of $29m which it seeks by way of this legislation. 
If a tax is already applied 1 do not think that it is sufficient. 
A receipts duty is imposed, but it is amazing how companies can avoid paying it. For example, no stamp duty is to be paid on the transfer of assets from Mount Isa Mines Limited to a holding company which is considered to be within its structure. This transaction is going to cost the Queensland Government many millions of dollars. A proper examination of these share transactions will reveal that stamp duty is being avoided in this fashion. All I am suggesting is that this area could afford to bear some taxation. The turnover is so great that the tax imposed would need to be only small but at least it would be paid by those who could best afford it. It would be interesting to find out just how much those who made large sums of money on the Tasminex NL shares will pay by way of taxation. It is in this area that the Government should be looking to raise finance. It should be looking to the great overseas companies which have secondary companies in this country. For instance the mining sands companies which are exploiting or intending the exploit the Cooloola sands area revealed in a mining warden's court that they had paid no tax on their operations in Australia. The reason for this is that they sell below cost to their overseas parent and so avoid paying company tax in Australia. This is a tax evasion which is carried out by even larger companies. I suspect that Queensland Alumina also falls into this category. 
No, they are company taxes and, in effect, they are also income taxes which the Commonwealth gathers on behalf of the States and min.buses to the States. In effect the sales tax is raised for a similar purpose. I suggest there are many other avenues for raising finance in this country which would avoid the necessity of imposing sales tax which, irrespective of what the Government says, bears down upon the ordinary people in the community. I ask the Government to appreciate the point of view of the Opposition which looks on these taxes as taxes which increase costs and charges and are iniquitous in the whole area of their operations. For this reason we intend strongly to oppose the Bills and vote against them. 
It is all very well for the DLP to suggest that it can see no other alternative. Members of that Party say they see no need to erode the Budget as it has been presented. They suggest that at some future stage this matter can be corrected. 1 feel that the DLP shifts away from the responsibility of facing what this country desperately needs and that is a double dissolution which will take both these Houses back to the people. If it achieves nothing more than bringing the election of the Senate and the House of Representatives together it will have achieved something indeed, lt will put the policies of all parties completely to the test at the right time; that is at a time when so much dissatisfaction is found in the community. But the DLP will shirk its responsibility on al! occasions, ft goes as far as the brink and then it withdraws because it realises its popularity is not of such a great extent that the people will return its members to this place in the same numbers as at the present time. This is the secret of the voting pattern of the DLP. 
One would expect the DLP to oppose this provision, but of course they know that if they opposed it we would be forced to go to the country at the same time as the House of Representatives and that would mean a loss in Queensland of one of their number and also a loss in Victoria. They are not prepared to suffer these losses. At the same time the Government is not prepared to see them suffer such losses because it is upon the DLP support that the Government depends for its majority in the Senate. I say to honourable senators: Do not fool yourselves, because that is the secret of the Government's success. The Government will support and encourage the DLP. It will compromise with them as it did on the receipts tax legislation. It wilt compromise with them on matters of defence. In effect the Government is controlled and ruled by this Rump of 4 in this place. I am not bringing the Country Party into this debate because it is part and parcel of the Government. But this unholy alliance between the DLP and the Government has worked to the detriment of this country for the last 10 years to my knowledge. It has worked to the detriment of the ordinary person. 1 suggest that the DLP accept full responsibility for this because the Government knows no better. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What arrangements have been made by the Commissioner for Taxation for the payment of company tax by Queensland Alumina Ltd whose plant at Gladstone supplies products at cost to its parent companies. 
How much tax has Queensland Alumina Ltd paid each year since its incorporation. 
What arrangements have been made by the Commisisoner for Taxation for the payment of company tax by the Commonwealth Aluminium Corporation Ltd which sells bauxite to its parent companies at a price well below the open market price for bauxite. 
How much lax has the Commonwealth Aluminium Corporation Ltd paid each year since its incorporation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What has been the average price per pound paid for tobacco leaf grown in Papua-New Guinea in each of the last 3 years. 
Which companies have purchased tobacco leaf in the Territories in each of the last 3 years and what quantities have been purchased by each. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External  Affairs,  upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the proposal to offer arms to the Lon Nol regime in Cambodia is a reversal of Government policy on Cambodia. 
Does this decision open the way for commitment of Australian troops to Cambodia, and will a decision to commit be made without prior reference to the Parliament. 
Are Australians to face the continuing prospect of involvement in the affairs of South-East Asian nations, particularly on the side of those who corruptly oppose the struggle for national liberation. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for External Affairs has provided the following reply: 
No. 
As to the first part of the question: no.The second part is therefore not relevant. 
In a statement to the House of Representatives on 22nd April 1970, the Prime Minister said that the Australian Government considered that small nations are best rendered secure if other nations are not allowed to be overrun and that Australian security was bound up with seeing that aggression does not succeed. Australia has done and will do all it can, consistent with the wishes of the Cambodian Government and people, to help Cambodia to defend itself against the aggression of the North Vietnamese and VietCong forces which have invaded the country. It is totally inconsistent with the facts to imply that this aggression is a 'struggle for national liberation' or that it is being 'corruptly opposed. 
I. object strongly to the proposed arrangement. I have a strong feeling that a farce is being made of this place. Some time ago the Senate caine to a decision that it would sit for 2 weeks and then rise for 1 week. That cycle was introduced for the convenience of this place and of honourable senators. Immediately that arrangement was agreed to, a complete change of arrangements came about. The Opposition does not. mind breaking the arrangement and coming back next week, but to impose an extra Monday sitting upon us is something that we ought not to tolerate and ought not to support. I do not think the Government has any conception of what happens to senators in their home towns and their home States, the amount of work which they have to do and the commitments which they have made for particular days; if it had it would not have put this proposition. These commitments have to be honoured. I think the Government ought to co-operate to ensure that we keep strictly to the arrangements which were made. 
There needs to be forward planning in the arrangement of our sitting days and in the carrying out of our business, especially since the sittings of the Estimates Committees involve staff and public servants. There is need for forward planning. The Government has to plan well in advance and it has to keep to its arrangements. It should not break its arrangements. Every time it breaks an arrangement it throws the whole situation into confusion. For that reason, I think the Senate ought to determine that it shall not sit next Monday. We are prepared to come back next week, which was not arranged, so that the Government can carry out its business and so that we can go to the country for the election. I do not think we ought to try to impose upon ourselves extra sitting days, especially since lt has been indicated that we will try to match the other place, which will start that mad scramble in the last week of sitting, and sit each day until the early hours of the morning. We are expected to match it or to push legislation through here at what can be described only as a disgraceful rate. 
-I rise to take up this matter not because of an interchange earlier in the day, the terms of which I now regret and for which I apologise. It is a matter which I would have taken up on the adjournment debate in any case and refers to a question which I asked of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  The question is an important one. I feel I have to speak here because I believe the Treasurer has evaded answering the question. Since it involves the evasion by companies in Australia of company tax it is an important one. I asked: 
What arrangements have been made by the Commissioner for Taxation for the payment of company tax by Queensland Alumina Ltd whose plant at Gladstone supplies products at cost to its parent companies. 
I meant parent companies overseas. 1 asked further: 
How much tax has Queensland Alumina Ltd paid each year since its incorporation. 
The Treasurer could have answered this part of the question but he did not. He gave a reason for not answering the other part of the question which referred to taxation details of companies. But I will deal with that later. I asked: 
What arrangements have been made by the Commissioner for Taxation for the payment of company tax by the Commonwealth Aluminium Corporation Lfd which sells bauxite to its parent companies at a price well below the open market price for bauxite. 
I feel the Treasurer could have answered that because there are powers under which the Commissioner of Taxation can make an investigation and can charge company tax where he feels that company tax has been evaded by a company selling at below cost to its parent company overseas. To my mind this is a deliberate evasion of taxation in this country. There is provision to stop this evasion. I am seeking information from the Treasurer as to just how the Commissioner of Taxation dealt with this case. I think an answer could have been given to that part of the question. I went on and asked: 
How much tax has Commonwealth Aluminium Corporation Ltd paid each year since its incorporation. 
In other words I wanted the information to bear out what I have implied - that those companies were evading tax in this way. The answer was: 
Subject only to certain specific exceptions which do not apply in the present circumstances, the Commissioner of Taxation is prohibited by law from disclosing information relating to the affairs of independent taxpayers. 
I ask the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  who in this chamber represents the Treasurer: Does this terminology cover a company? 
I would have thought that the disclosure of taxation paid by this company would have been in the public interest. Then we could ascertain whether there has been, as I am charging, evasion of taxation by companies in Australia. To my mind this is a deliberate practice carried out by many of the large overseas companies which straddle the exploitation of our mineral resources. When the mining wardens court in Queensland was investigating the leases that were to be granted at Cooloola it was revealed at the hearing that one of the mineral sand companies had paid no tax because it was selling to the parent company overseas at below cost. I believe this to be a vital question which affects the income capacity of this nation. If there is a widespread practice of this kind then the Commissioner of Taxation ought to report on it. 
 I referred to that in a previous speech. I do not want to give the name of the company because I cannot recollect it exactly. Two mining companies had applied for leases at Cooloola Sands. A struggle had developed between the people who wanted to conserve Cooloola in the national interest and the mining companies. In the case that was presented by the conservationists and in the questioning which took place it was revealed that the companies were not paying the tax. They were evading it by the simple means of selling their commodity at below the world market price. 
That was revealed by the mining company concerned. That is my information. 
Yes. It was revealed by the mining company itself. That can be verified. I have asked questions in relation to other companies and I would have thought that the information would have been made available. The Minister may say: 'This information must be available elsewhere in the company returns'. If it is, then why should the Commissioner of Taxation be hesitant in providing the information to this place? It is information which should be revealed to the Senate for further investigation. I now ask  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, who represents the Treasurer, to ask his colleague to have another look at my question and perhaps come up with a more comprehensive answer. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! I remind the Minister that by speaking now he will be closing the debate. 
In that case- 
In directing a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate I attract his attention to the  fact that I now have the oldest question on the notice paper. 
Congratulations. 
I accept his congratulations. I refer to question No. 422 which reads: 
If the document entitled 'Australian Military Forces Pocketbook South Vietnam' is on issue to the defence forces, and even if it is on a restricted list, will he make a copy available to the Senate for perusal? 
As the question has been on the notice paper since 2nd June, I now ask him why the book has not been made available for perusal by the Senate and what is the reason for the delay. 
asked 2 related questions on the same matter on 2nd June. They are questions Nos 422 and 423 and are directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. The normal procedure for me, as Minister representing the Minister for Defence, when questions are outstanding for any length of time is to attempt to obtain replies to them. I will renew my request for a speedy answer to this question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What has been the volume and value of (a) oil, and (b) natural gas, produced in (i) Australia, and (ii) Queensland in each year since 1963? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
In view of the recent serious thefts which have transferred a vast quantity of dangerous drugs from the legal market to the illegal market and having in mind the danger to the community, especially young people, of the illicit trafficking in drugs and the fact that large surpluses of drugs have been accumulated because of recent State legislation, will the Department of Customs and Excise take urgent action to have these surpluses destroyed in order to avoid the possibility of further thefts. 
I wishto mention two matters. One follows what  Senator Mulvihill  said. The prospect of oil spillages off the Queensland coast, in particular, is a terrifying and continuing prospect. The legislation provides for compensation to be paid after the event. It is a step in the right direction, butI hope that the Government will look at some method by which it can lessen the possibility of oil spillages. It should endeavour to find an alternative route to the one between the coast and the Great Barrier Reef. One other matter whichI would like the Government to take a look at is the practice of oil tankers cleaning their tanks on a return journey. This practice is called butterworthing. I believe that it has occurred off the coast of Queensland. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister  representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the total amount of Commonwealth contributions to Public Service superannuation payments in the latest year for which figures are available. 
What are the projected annual contributions (a) in 1975, (b) in 1985, and (c) in 2000. 
The total amount of Commonwealth contributions to benefits from the Superannuation Fund in 1969-70 amounted to $36,177,564, including pensions, Provident Account and lump sum payments in relation to retrenchments. 
Realistic projections for (a) 1975 (b) 1985 and (c) 2000 are not available because of a number of factors, including the impact of two recent major changes in the scheme - the non-contributory amendments of 1969 and the preservation legislation, currently before the Parliament. There are also imponderables arising from the impracticability of forecasting changes in interest rates which would affect payments made by the Commonwealth for Provident Account benefits, and from changes in the quantum of pension supplements from Consolidated Revenue, in relation to the pensions in force at a particular time, due to pension increases after retirement, the provisions of Section 147 of the Superannuation Act and such considerations. 
I hate this matter of getting to one's feet and shouting. I think it is impolite and should be treated as such. I would like to ask my usual question so that the usual answer can be given. I would like the Minister for Supply  (Sir Kenneth Anderson)  to look at Division 459 which relates to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I ask why there has been an increase of $400,000 in the estimate under this division. When can we expect some breakdown and accounting for this section of the Prime Minister's Department? 
I wish to refer to item 05  -  Incidental and Other Expenditure - under 'Administrative Expenses' for the Senate. You may recall,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  that I got to my feet earlier with the intention of speaking on the matter before the Chair at that .time but I was not seen. At that time I wanted to ask the Leader of the House whether he would have re-committed the matter if the missing Government supporter had been present and the DLP member absent. lt should not be necessary for me to get to my feet and call to the  Chairman  or the Temporary  Chairman.  It should not be necessary for any honourable senator to be placed in a position behind the Chair. On another occasion I asked the Leader of the Government whether he was prepared to re-arrange the seating provisions of the Senate so that the 4 honourable senators who sit behind the Chair - and some on the right of me sit even further behind than 1  -  could be moved to a position within the sight of the  Chairman,  and certainly within the sight of  Mr President.  It is not reasonable to have to jump to one's feet and call out  'Mr Chairman',  lt is not necessary for anyone else to do this. Why should it be necessary for the 4 honourable senators who sit in this corner to call out to the person occupying the Chair? I have no doubt that provision is made under the item Incidental and Other Expenditure for the rearrangement of accommodation fittings in the Senate. I trust that some provision will be made under this head to move the 4 senators away from this section of the chamber to the main body of it, even if it is necessary to take- 
Well, after the election, we will be in such great number on the benches opposite that perhaps the need will not arise to use these 4 seats. I think my request is reasonable. I have been one who, during this debate on the Estimates, has not entered into the debate because I took part as a member of one of the Estimates Committees in the inquiry into the Estimates. Although there was a considerable area of questioning which I wanted to direct to the Ministers who appeared before the other Estimates Committees, I decided that I would seek next year for the rearrangement of the times of meeting of the Committees in such a fashion that perhaps I could attend more Committee sittings. In spite of the fact that the Minister in charge of the previous estimates discussed left so many things unanswered, I was prepared to be patient. But I have been driven to my feet by the fact that not only on this occasion but also on other occasions I have risen to my feet and I have not been noted. I think that the matter could be solved if some of this proposed expenditure was directed towards moving those who are isolated in these seats to other seats where they can be seen comfortably. 
I come to the point that  Senator Georges  made. He said that he is behind the chair. He is not so much behind the chair in which the presiding officer sits. He is certainly behind the chair of the  chairman  of committees. In any event, I feel bound to point out to the honourable senator that we are all culprits in this matter as well as he is because we have the responsibility to catch the eye of the presiding officer. The Standing Orders provide that: 
Every senator desiring to speak shall rise uncovered and address himself to the  President. 
The fact is that we have fallen into the habit of putting names down on a list. It is very convenient. I have seen it; we all have seen it. Honourable senators sit in their seats and wait for the  President  to call them. This is quite wrong. The job of an honourable senator is to rise and say:  'Mr President!' 
I was a member in another Parliament. A member there had to shout pretty hard to catch the eye of the presiding officer. This is our responsibility. An honourable senator does not get the presiding officer's eye by hoping that the presiding officer will read his name off a piece of paper. That is for his guidance only. It is not the rule. So I say to  Senator Georges  that I agree, as I am sure we all agree, that it is a disadvantage to be behind the chairs, particularly the chair of the  chairman  of committees. 
We can move the honourable senator. I am sure that other honourable senators would love to have him next to them. I think that a couple of vacant seats are to be found around the perimeter of the Senate. The honourable senator may occupy one of them. But the honourable seantor should remember that when seeking the call he should rise in his place and assert himself. I am sure that, if he does that, he will have great success. Finally, I am sure that this question of honourable senators being placed behind the presiding officer will be considered when some refurbishing or some rearrangement of the- Senate takes place. 
I rise to say that I support this amendment in order to allow  Senator Wheeldon  to continue. 
I have none at all. I hold no shares in any mining company. I make that declaration here for the information of  Senator Marriott. 
I am not interested in what shares the honourable senator holds. All I am interested in is what attitude I have. We ought to take the steps which have been taken in other countries and set aside these reserves under trusts in which Aboriginals hold control. We ought not permit a practice which has developed within these reserves and grant leases to Aboriginals and so create a sort of petty capitalism within the reserves. In the long run this too will cause the alienation of which we speak. I commend the motion to the Committee. 
 I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, ls it not a fact that the mechanisation of rural industries by large companies and the Government's policy of amalgamation of rural properties call for a reduction of hours for rural workers not to 35 a week but to no hours at all? Is this not supported by the evidence of drift from the rural sector to the cities? Is this situation not caused by the faulty economic rural policy of this Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
If the document entitled Australian Military Forces PocketbookSouth Vietnam is on issue to the defence forces, and even if it is on a restricted list, will he make a copy available to the Senate for perusal. 
The Australian Military Forces Pocketbook South Vietnam' is issued to troops on posting for service in South Vietnam. I am prepared to make a copy of the booklet available to the honourable  Senator for  his perusal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is a document entitled Australian Military Forces Pocketbook 'South Vietnam' on issue to the defence forces; if so, does it, as is claimed by the Catholic Worker, give only right wing accounts of the Vietnam war. 
Who wrote the document, and on whose authority is it distributed. 
The Australian Military Forces Pocketbook South Vietnam' is issued to troops on posting for service in South Vietnam. I  am  advised it is  a  factual general information booklet designed to inform soldiers about the country in which they will be serving and its people. 
The booklet was written by officers of the Department of the Army and issued by direction of the Chief of the General Staff. 
I am concerned about the matter which 

 Senator McClelland has raised. 1 am concerned that the Minister could not accept the view that information regarding loans which are made by the Commonwealth Superannuation Board should be made available. The pattern is broken here. As was indicated by  Senator Mcclelland,  information concerning loans made to public authorities is made available and documented. But for some reason information concerning loans which are made to private groups is not disclosed. 1 cannot accept this at all. There is no assurance from the Minister that this $60m does not flow perhaps to a merchant banker and then flows from the merchant banker into the general speculative area of financing in Australia. This cannot be denied except by producing the actual figures and documenting the loans, the interest paid on the loans and so on. There can be no excuse for the nondisclosure of the details of this very substantial amount of money which belongs to the Public Service. 1 should imagine that this money would be directed only into gilt edged areas. It comes to me as a surprise that such a large sum of money could be loaned under what is virtually a secret arrangement. For the life of me I cannot see why the Government could not disclose details indicating that the money has been made available to various financial institutions. Has the money been passed into a sector which enables the building of. shall I say, luxury units on the Gold Coast and thus have the effect of impeding the Government's policy to restrict the building industry so that inflation can be controlled? Is it possible that this $60m could flow into other areas of speculation which could affect the stability of the economy? All these questions need to be answered because $60m is a substantial amount of money. 
I cannot understand why a company which borrows from the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund would not be prepared to disclose that it has borrowed this money and the terms on which it has borrowed it. Any person who borrows any money from any financial institution these days seems to have those details revealed. An ordinary person who borrows from a hire purchase company will have the details of that financial transaction revealed in various gazettes - and so it ought to be. There ought not to be any flow of money from a fund of this type to another area without it being disclosed to the Parliament. 1 really do think that the Government ought to reconsider this and make certain that the details of that lending are tabulated and documented as all other details have been when the money has been made available to local authorities. I would have thought too that there would not have been any need for the Superannuation Fund to lend to the private sector. There is certainly a demand throughout Australia by semi-governmental authorities for this money and it would serve the country far better for it to be directed in this way - especially since it would be disclosed - than have it secretly passed elsewhere. 
There was another question raised by  Senator McClelland  in which I am particularly interested. How is it that Commonwealth public servants have not been able to have access to this Fund in which there is a surplus? How is it that they have not been able lo borrow from this Fund for home building purposes? If one is insured with any other insurance company and wishes to build a house one can obtain a good substantial loan from that company. The public servant is committed to insure himself with the Fund and cannot insure himself elsewhere because he would overinsure himself and limit his available income for normal expenditure. Yet he cannot draw on the Fund in a time of need when he wants to build a substantial home - or even, shall we term it, a not so substantial home of, say, 16 squares which would cost somewhere around $18,000. He cannot obtain the money elsewhere through the normal government channels because the maximum loan is $8,000. He has to fall back in most cases, when building a house in this range, upon an insurance company. 
The public servant is completely committed to the Fund. He has virtually no access to his own money for his own needs. If there is a surplus surely the Fund could come up with some sort of arrangement to provide money to Commonwealth public servants for home building purposes. If the Fund continues to deny this opportunity, especially when there is a surplus, then I say that it is denying justice to the public servants and denying a service which all insurance companies supply to their clients. 
There is another matter [ want to raise on behalf of  Senator McClelland  who was unable, because of the time factor, to include it in his speech. 1 would like the Minister when he answers to take into consideration that it seems most discriminator)' that the wife of a public servant, should the husband die, receives at the maximum five-eighths of the husband's superannuation. The main contribution to the payment of superannuation must come out of the household budget because most husbands do not restrict their pocket money to pay superannuation contributions. Should the wife die after the husband has retired the husband is still paid a full superannuation pension. In addition, if both the husband and wife die and there are children under the age of 16 years left the pension is drastically reduced and there is not sufficient to maintain the children or keep them at school until such time as they can receive a reasonable education. This to me is discrimination. 
I would like the Minister to tell us why this happens. In these 3 areas alone the Superannuation Fund, those who administer it and the Government which perhaps directs its policy or in some way can influence its policy have been sadly lacking in considering the needs of the public servant. I cannot see any justice in any of these areas: Firstly, the non-disclosure of investments; secondly, the non-availability of loans for home building purposes, and thirdly, the discrimination against dependants. Having regard to these three anomalies I would say that the sooner there is an investigation into the operation and administration of the Superannuation Fund the better. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) (11.51)  -  I only want to say that the honourable senator has expressed a point of view on matters of policy regarding the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. They are not matters that I could be expected, nor would I wish, to respond to when dealing with the Estimates. All I can say is that I will relate the expressed point of view to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  That is all I can do. As for the first matter that  Senator Georges  took up, which was a reiteration of the point of view expressed by  Senator McClelland,  some details of the totality of these funds are shown in the Auditor-General's report. As 1 said before, it is not the policy to give information in relation to companies, organisations or individuals in regard to the investment of money by the Fund. 
It is a matter of policy. The honourable senator might say that it is wrong but all I can say is that I will convey his point of view to ihe Treasurer. The honourable senator would not expect me to argue it whilst dealing with the Estimates. It is a matter for the Fund lo look at in the light of what the honourable senator has said and I do not want to repeat the answer which I gave to  Senator McClelland  on that point. I think that acceptance of the view expressed by the honourable senator would mitigate against the success of the Fund. After all. the Fund has money to invest under a certain charter and it does that. Its responsibilities in the matter are quite clear. It has to invest in such a way as to satisfy the requirements of the Government and the Auditor-General and it has to do it at the very best advantage to itself, lt does not have the responsibility of Government fiscal policy, as  Senator Georges'  argument tended to suggest. Finally, of course, there is an employees' representative on the Fund. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Proposed expenditure - Advance to the Treasurer, S20.000.000- agreed t.». 
Defence Services 
Proposed expenditure $2.1,724,000. 

 Senator BISHOP (South Australia) (H.491-1 move: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced bv SIO.  as an instruction to the Government that it should move for the appointment of a joint committee to inquire into and report upon the Australian Defence Forces in relation to: 
Pay and allowances of all personnel; 
Provision for the re-training of officers and men; 
Housing, and 
Educational facilities for the children of servicemen. 
The Opposition proposes the appointment of a select committee because it considers that what has been done in the past with respect to the general conditions of Service personnel and what is now proposed by the Government are not satisfactory. [ am quite sure that honourable senators will recall that over the years there have been many complaints and much dissatisfaction. During the past 3 or 4 years to my knowledge, when trying to keep pace with increases in pay which should be applied to members of the defence Services, a number of our committees have been faced with the problem that, because of the processes of back-dating, there would have to be retrospective payments. One committee of the Senate was opposed to retrospectivity. This fact alone creates disabilities. The whole process of granting fair rates of pay and appropriate conditions to members of the Services was not adequate. 
Late last year, after great protests and a large number of resignations from the Services, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  decided to set up a committee, but during the first months of operation of that committee it became apparent that it could not handle the situation that was developing in the services. There has been wide dissatisfaction about conditions and pay. We are all familiar with comments that have appeared in the Press, including comments by serving personnel who decided to flaunt the regulations and came out in support of increased pay, increased transfer allowances and better housing. We know, too, that members of the families of servicemen - wives and dependants - have taken the opportunity to express wide dissatisfaction about such matters. Their comments have appeared in the Press over a period of 2 or 3 months and, to some extent, are still appearing. This has been a long-standing problem. In the Budget an allocation of $1, 137m is proposed for the defence services, yet we have nol found a means of giving serving members of the forces a fair go. That is the reason for our motion. 
Honourable senators are familiar with the great controversy which is concerning people in the community. Only recently they had the opportunity of seeing a discussion and hearing various points of view in a session of the 'Four Corners' programme. Points of view were adequately put by persons who had been serving officers of high rank and who mentioned some of the problems which have contri buted to resignations .mci to the general feeling of dissatisfaction. In recent months we witnessed an instant reaction to Service wages and conditions following the national wage case. Some 200 serving ratings in the Royal Australian Navy walked off 5 ships and almost instantaneously the Minister for Defence approved a wage increase for them of $8 a week. This was a most unusual circumstance in the Australian defence scene. Nothing similar had happened before. The Government, the Department of Defence, and heads of the Services recognised that there were great injustices and accepted actions by serving officers and men that in other days might have been regarded as mutinous. 1 agree that on this occasion the Government sensibly blinked its eye at what was taking place and attempted to correct the situation which had developed over the years. 
Currently we have the situation where resignations from the forces have reached alarming proportions. There must be a reason for this position. The situation must be considered against the background of what has been taking place with serving men and officers. Up to now no lasting solution to the problem has been proposed by the Government. Let me refer now to the rate of resignations. Five years ago there were 13 resignations from the Navy, 10 from the Army and 47 from the Royal Australian Air Force. In 1969 the figures were 28 for the Navy, 98 for the Army and 150 for the Royal Australian Air Force. In July and August of this year there were 9 resignations from the Navy, 70 from the Army and 23 from the Air Force. This year the Minister for Air,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  pointed out that the Royal Australian Air Force had lost the services of 28 pilots, including pilots of such rank as senior flight lieutenant and squadron leader. I am sure that all honourable senators will remember what the Minister said and welcomed it. He made it very clear that in his opinion at that time there should have been increases in salary. He criticised the standards of pay and said that he would do what he could to increase them. 
On 19th August the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  said that in respect of Army Intelligence one lieutenant-colonel had resigned and 5 majors and 5 captains had either resigned, retired or been transferred, perhaps to the Citizen Military Forces. It has been mentioned that the late  Senator Cohen  was told by the Government that the cost of an officer graduating from the Royal Military College at Duntroon was $56,000. We know that it costs a lot to train an officer and we know that the present situation is most unsatisfactory. We have read the expert opinions of people like  Sir Henry  Bland who at one time was Secretary of the Department of Labour and National Service. He is an expert on matters of management, employment and economy. He became Secretary of the Department of Defence and retired because of the effluxion of time. He recently made some observations about the general situation obtaining in the defence Services, to which I will refer presently. These matters should be considered. The committee which the Government proposes will not deal with these general background matters. There is need for an open inquiry, such as is proposed in the Opposition's motion, so that the real position of the Services and what its members are entitled to in respect of pay and conditions may be considered. Let me refer to  Sir Henry  Bland's observations. He said: 
Maybe the process of producing the military man has not been sufficiently adjusted to lake account of the sorts of developments 1 have mentioned. . . . 
No organisation gives more attention to, or devotes more resources to, or spends more money on, training than the armed forces, and ours are no exception. One of our generals once told me he estimated that one-fifth of his service life had been devoted to training. 
The needed review calls for the aid of educationists and others outside the Services. Calling for review are the value of the training, the character of training, training methods and techniques, the posting system that generally treats the instructor function as no different from most other functions in the Services, the resources devoted to training, and so on. 
I cannot read all of his opinions but, as honourable senators know, they are founded on a lifetime of experience in these matters. He continued: 
The rotation of posting practices of our own Services are, I suspect, at the root of the current concern over conditions of service. The disruption of family life, including children's schooling, which these practices cause is a prime element, I believe, in the resignation of Service personnel and failure to re-engage. 
There has been some recognition of the situation. If honourable senators examine the 'Defence Report 1970' they will see that the Minister for Defence has drawn attention to some matters which relate to the dissatisfaction with Service conditions and contribute to the growing number of resignations. He said: 
The level of recruitment this year, the rale of engagement and the extent of officer wastage, particularly in the RAAF, are causing some concern. . . . 
There are many factors which influence the attractiveness of Service careers. One important aspect is the frequency of postings involving a change' of location which is of particular concern to the married member with children at school. The impact of Vietnam involving 12 months tours of duty for members serving there and associated sea going service for RAN personnel affects this problem, but a full examination is being made in an endeavour to reduce posting turbulence to a minimum. 
He then goes on to refer to the need for suitable housing. So we have a background Of continuing dissatisfaction. 
The Government has put forward 2 proposals. One is that the present Committee might be able to cope with the general disabilities of ex-servicemen in relation to the Services and to the community generally. I want to refer briefly to the submissions which were made by the Returned Services League which pointed out the need for a much wider inquiry than that proposed by the Government. We must have an inquiry which will allow people with specialised interests to give evidence. It should be an open inquiry which does not in any way restrict the witnesses who are subject to the standards of the Commonwealth Public Service and to the procedures which are currently and traditionally part of the traditions of the armed Services. There must be a new consideration. The only new consideration which the Opposition considers would be satisfactory is the need to look at the whole question of the Services, including the social environment and the family separation which comes from posting, reposting and reestablishment. 
In these days it must be considered as a matter of great importance to what extent the prestige of the soldier in the community ought to be reassessed and somehow improved. This is one of the considerations to which the Committee might refer. 
The proposed inquiry is too restricted. As honourable senators know, it will be headed by  Mr Justice  Kerr, who is a judge of the Supreme Court of the A.C.T. and a member of the Commonwealth Industrial Court. The inquiry will be held in camera. It will not be a continuing review of the kind that is most necessary. It will be restricted. It is presumed that the inquiry will take at least 12 months. It is an inquiry set up for a special purpose when what is needed is an examination of servicemen's pay and conditions and of all the things that go to make up their role in the Services and in the community for which they should be adequately compensated. We know that they are not so compensated. We know that they are not compensated in respect to their pay. We know that some short term adjustments have been made which have partly satisfied the serviceman, but at the same time resignations have increased. This applies to the ordinary ranks as well as to the officers in the 3 Services. We know too that there are general complaints about the standard of housing and the rates which are paid by servicemen for housing. In many cases serving officers and men have to pay more for a house than public servants do. Often the accommodation is not adequate. New consideration must be given to civil retraining and to the needs of the serving officers and the other ranks when their time is up, so that they can be placed in the community. We must see that because of their service they are not discriminated against relative to people in the community generally. 
So we have a position where, because of the general development in the economy, the inducements to work outside the Services are greater than those to work inside. We have it on record in the Senate, as well as everywhere else, that rates for skilled personnel are better outside, conditions are better outside and the person has a greater opportunity of promotion and of getting the sort of things which he needs for his family. Because of the need to conserve time I propose the amendment as a proposition which is most necessary. It will allow an open inquiry. It will do more than what is now being proposed by the Government in respect of these matters. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to amend the second schedule by reducing the proposed expenditure under Divisions 270 to 282 for the Department of External Territories, $104,616,000, by $2. 
As an indication to the Government: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that recent events in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea for which the Government is responsible constitute a danger to the civil liberties and rights of the people of those Territories. 
We have been concerned for some time with a trend which has been developing in the administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. For the peoples of that area we have accepted rather reluctantly a responsibility which should have been accepted in full with a view to bringing to these people a society which would set an example to other similar societies throughout the world and to bringing to them a democratic system of government which would give them freedom to express themselves and to live a full life. Unfortunately, there have ben certain developments under this Government in the Territory which cause concern. 
I would like to go back to May this year and by way of explanation refer to an article headed 'Black Justice' written by  Mr James  Hall in the 'Bulletin' on 26th September 1970. The article said: 
In May this year an Administration Department head in Port Moresby sent a letter to the manager of Radio Rabaul instructing him how to use the Administration radio station as part of a programme to destroy a leader of the Mataungan Association, John Kaputin. 
Fortunately when the letter was made public the plot against the. Mataungan Association backfired and the Administration lost the round. The article continues: 
Nine months before in an unconnected episode the Territory's Public Solicitor, W. A. (Peter) Lalor, acting on behalf of some Bougainville natives took out a writ against the Administration. This Supreme Court writ challenged the validity of the mining ordinance and hence the whole multi-million-dollar Bougainville copper venture. Lalor lost, but he trod on a lot of toes and caused some discomfort to his Government bosses. Last week, like festering sores, the incidents surfaced again and this time they appeared to be connected. 
Again the Administration has more or less been caught out and again it has been by way of an official letter that has been made public - it reveals an apparent attempt- 
I give all these incidents in this form as the lead-up to a situation which brought before the Assembly in the Territory the Public Order Bill. I am leading to this point. The article continues:  . . lo get at the Mataungan Association by applying pressure to the Public Solicitor. The issue started out as the question of whether or not the Public Solicitor's Office would give legal aid to the members of all the Tolai native Mataungan Association to fight tax evasion charges and lo take out a Supreme Court writ to challenge the validity of the presently constituted Gazelle Multiracial Government Council on New Britain. lt has now developed into a question of resolving the status of the office of the Papua-New Guinea Public Solicitor- whether it should be completely independent from the public service or not. The controversy started when the Mataungan members approached Lalor and sought legal aid from his office. Lalor determined that they had a case for aid and offered it. Then Law Secretary Lindsay Curtis stepped in and told Lalor that he was wrong. Lalor asked for it in writing and Curtis issued his directions. He later told the House of Assembly that he was merely outlining departmental policy. 
In this case it seemed to me a withdrawal of legal assistance for the people of the Territory. The article continues: 
Curtis did not order that the aid be completely denied to the Mataungans, only that it be withheld until two conditions had been satisfied. 
And this part I find to be outrageous: 
Th&lt; first was that the Mataungans would guarantee that 'on being found liable to pay council tax they would so do.' The second was more political - that legal aid could not be granted to an association which was acting to advance its cause. 
The conditions made it fairly certain that the Mataungans would not get any legal aid from the Government. Lalor decided to fight the directive and appealed to the Public Service Board. There was little doubt in his own mind and in those of most independent observers that he was being put under undue pressure, but whether it was because of the Mataumgan Association or himself or a bit of both was not clear. 1 would like to emphasise what follows: 
What was clear though was that a lot of the pressure was coming from Australia. Significantly Curtis' directive was issued only after consultations with Federal Attorney-General Tom Hughes in Port Moresby recently - equally significantly Hughes had discussed the matter with Prime Minister Gorton before he spoke with Curtis. 
Now that the matter is out in the open the Government is coming under a lot of pressure both in Australia and Papua-New Guinea to leave the Public Solicitor's Office alone, to define its status and to let it act independently of the executive. The advocates of this line argue that in a country like Papua-New Guinea, where the great percentage of the population has neither the means nor the ability to Ure its own legal representation, it is vital that there be sufficient Impartial legal aid on hand. 
It was written by  Mr James  Hall. In spite of that warning that this area should appear to be free of any direction or oppression by Australian authorities, what came forward next was the very controversial Public Order Bill which attracted the attention of the International Commission of Jurists, which stated that the Bill was distressingly reminiscent of past South African laws in some of its respects. I will not go very deeply into the law because I have already indicated how events since May led to the Public Order Bill and also because other honourable senators on this side will probe this matter even further. But it is interesting to see the way in which this Public Order Bill is framed. This article states: lj) the general introductory note, the Mover of the Bill gives it die appearance of being a mere General revision' of police powers, to 'keep pace with developments' and to 'keep pace with change in the law' in other countries. It is also hitched on to a proposal, which came from the members of the House, to control the number of unemployed people coming to towns. No reference is made to the fact that the changes proposed in the law are great and fundamental, that they are not to be found in such severity In any country other than an overtly police state, that they are capable of the greatest possible abuse and of being used as arbitrary repression by means of the police power, and that the fundamental principle of 'innocent until proven guilty' is flagrantly abused. lt is implied- 
By the mover of the Bill -  . . (hat the present police powers are oldfashioned and inadequate, and that other democratic countries have found this to be so. But this is simply not true. 
The Bill deals with three principal matters: 
public meetings and processions, possession of weapons and associated offences such as intimidation, i.e. undesirable political activity likely to lead to a breach of the peace; 
the repatriation of unemployed or undesirable persons in and around towns; and 
criminal trespass on land (including administration land). 
This is an article entitled 'Law and Order in New Guinea' and it was printed in a university paper in Melbourne on 4th September 1970. It seems to me that the Public Order Bill was introduced into New Guinea to inhibit in some way rising political unrest and the desire of the people of New Guinea to establish their own system of government without any over-lordship from Australia. In spite of the fact that Australia has spent so much money in the Territory and has done so much, by way of administration and service, including skills in various departments, the people of Papua and New Guinea have a right to develop their own political system and to establish their own political freedom without limitation.  1  do not accept that because so much money has been spent in that area we should impose limitations upon these people. 
The Public Order Bill seems to me to have been introduced in New Guinea because it was more easily introduced there than in Australia, although there have been signs that it was the desire not only of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  but also of the Attorney-General to establish law and order as a means of achieving a political end - that is, the maintenance of the power of the present Government. It sought to set up this pattern in the Territory firstly because it is easier to achieve it there. It seems to me that the Government has forgotten that in introducing a Public Order Bill it is necessary to consider the justice involved. For the life of me I cannot see how an Act which enables police to apprehend without real cause - as appears to be so in New Guinea - has any justice in it. It has failed to impress me as an Act with any justice in it when it is possible for Administration officers in New Guinea to expel or exile a man from a town or prevent a man from entering a town. I cannot for the life of me see any justice in this. I cannot see the justice in Administration officers in New Guinea having power to disband political meetings and declare them illegal without reference to the normal procedures of law as they exist on the mainland. I cannot see any justice in this operation. It is for this reason that the Opposition has moved its amendment. To emphasise it, I repeat that it is in these terms: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to amend the Second Schedule by reducing the vote- Divisions 270-282, Department of External Territories, $104,616,000 - by $2- as an indication to the Government that the Senate is of the opinion that recent events in the Territories of Papua and New Guinea for which the Government is responsible constitute a danger to the civil liberties and rights of the people of those Territories. 
Agreement to this amendment will demonstrate that the Committee shares the opinion of the Opposition. 
 My comment in reply to  Senator Greenwood  is that nothing is more calculated to lengthen the period before the Territory can receive self-government than the imposition upon it of the Public Order Ordinance. It will create dissension and tension friction and unrest which will inhibit the ability to give complete selfgovernment to these people as quickly as we of the Australian Labor Party want to give it to them. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  said that I did not deal with the various aspects of that Ordinance. I did not do so because I appreciated that this is an Estimates debate. I had to precis the matter. 
But  Senator Wright  went to great length, perhaps greater than was expected, in reply to my comments. He indicated that I should have taken a little more care and contributed considerably more to the subject. Since he threw down the challenge I have taken it up. I would have thought that this motion in the Estimates debate would indicate the Opposition's attitude in brief. We would have placed our amendment before the Committee and then continued with the business before us. Now we have been thrown into the situation that some of us must answer some of the statements made. One  speaker  said that our attitude was shameful and that our remarks were outrageous. It was said that we were merely vocal exponents for the propagandists. But our concern is sincere. The situation in Papua and New Guinea which has been brought about by the Public Order Ordinance concerns us very greatly. The Ordinance places much power in the hands of law enforcement officers. Honourable senators know that in any democratic society the power of law enforcement officers should be limited. Their powers should not be based on expediency to make their work much easier. This brings to my mind a situation in Port Moresby when police officers co-operated with customs officers and used the powers of the Department of Customs to raid houses in Port Moresby in areas to which the Customs Act did not apply in order to gain evidence which would lead to a conviction. This was action on the part of two law enforcement departments in co-operation, misusing the law because it became expedient and easy to do so. 
The Public Order Ordinance indicates by its penalties its oppressive nature. I shall refer to some of its provisions in brief rather than go through the whole of the Bill. If an area has been prescribed in relation to public meetings and processions or public meetings are held without a permit, the penalty is not a mere few dollars but is $500 or 1 year's gaol or both. The Administrator's nominee can refuse a permit without reason, despite the fact that subsection (5) appears to compel him to issue a permit 'unless he is satisfied' etc. For being present at such a meeting or procession the penalty is $250 or 6 months' imprisonment or both. That is merely for being present. This is why I say that law is oppressive and is meant to be oppressive. It is meant to limit the power of minorities to operate. It is meant to limit the power of minorities which do not agree with government or administrative policy. It is meant to limit their operations to such an extent that if a person happens to be at such a meeting he is liable not to a fine of $5 but to a fine of $250 or imprisonment for 6 months or both. 
On the question of knowledge and intent, an accused is presumed to be guilty unless he can prove that he is innocent. And unless a mere bystander can prove that he was there for some lawful purpose, he is presumed to be guilty. So the onus of proof is placed on the individual. I find this law to be reprehensible. The imposition of the Public Order Ordinance is outrageous. We have been told that the Bill was carried by a vote of 54 to 21. I should like to see a break-down of the vote, but in any case I would say that it was an ill-considered decision. Even outside the gazetted areas, any meeting can be banned or dispersed by any police superintendent. There is no control or conditions on this power, although again it is stated that he may act 'if he is satisfied that it is undesirable in the interest of public order'. I remember that a police inspector at Roma Street, in Brisbane, came to such a decision. The penalty for organising or being present at a gathering after it has been banned is $200, and there are other penalties. In that case also guilty knowledge is presumed under section 9 of the Ordinance. 
The possession of weapons - that would include a penknife - at public meetings is presumed to be unlawful unless the accused proves otherwise. Under section 10 the penalty for that offence is S500. Section 11 relates to behaviour at public meetings likely to cause a breach of the peace. The penalty in that case is $500. For any writing or public statement that is likely to lead to a breach of the peace or a breach of the law, or to promote ill will among classes or communities, the penalty prescribed by section 12 is $500. Any police superintendent, if 'satisfied' etc. - this would be a lawyer's paradise, although I doubt whether there would be sufficient lawyers to protect the people if they were indigenes - can close off any road, and failure to follow orders is an offence the penalty for which under section 14 is $200. That was section 14. Section 15 provides that any policeman can stop and search without warrant any car or passenger if he believes on reasonable grounds that weapons exist, or that the car is likely to be used for purposes prejudicial etc. and the weapons may be seized even if they are being lawfully carried. 
Section 1.6 provides that any policeman can give anyone any order for the purpose of maintaining order in a public place. Refusal to comply with such an order involves a fine of $200. Section 17 provides that any policeman can take any action reasonably necessary to prevent a breach of peace, if he reasonably believes a breach is likely. Again refusal to comply involves a fine of $200. Section 19 provides that anyone who intimidates another - that is, causes him apprehension of injury to anyone or any property - or obstructs anyone, is guilty of an offence, if it is done with the intent, which is in ail cases presumed until disproved, to prevent a lawful act or to procure a change in the law or a change in Administration policy. The mover . indicated that this is particularly intended to protect members of the House. The penalty in that case is $200. 
Another provision relates to security to keep the peace, and repatriation. Any district court can order any person to enter into a bond to keep the peace and be of good behaviour and not to leave an area prescribed. This area would include his home. I am giving these details because they show how restrictive this Public Order Ordinance happens to be. It indicates that the Opposition is justified in voicing its protest by means of this amendment and is not engaging in a shameful manoeuvre. 
I would say the House of Assembly, if it allowed this legislation to go through, was a particularly poor judge. This is the type of legislation which one would expect to go through, and which did go through, in South Africa. This is the type of legislation which one would expect to go through, and which did go through just recently, in Greece. This is the sort of legislation which one would expect in any one of the many police states that exist. We of the Opposition are of the opinion that a territory which comes under the supervision of this country should produce some sort of reasonable enactment to achieve the end which the Administration is supposed to be achieving, which is, I would imagine, law and order and justice. The justice part has been forgotten, as I have indicated previously. Under this legislation the bond can be for any amount. It is not necessary that the defendant should have commited any offence, or that any evidence be brought establishing that it is desirable that he should be so bonded. All that has to be done is for it to be alleged on oath either that he has commited or is likely to commit a breach of the peace, or that he is unemployed in or near a town, and that it is desirable, etc., to remove him. Nothing need be proved; it need be merely alleged. The accused can be arrested and tried, though there is no offence. The magistrate need not be convinced by any evidence but merely satisfied that the accused should be bonded. No reasons or justifications need be stated by the magistrate, and his order is therefore not appealable. 
Yes. Those provisions are contained in sections 20 and 21. The mover said that the provisions would operate only if it was shown to the court that the facts alleged were true. But the Ordinance does not in fact so provide. The same kind of bond can be forced at the time of conviction on any person convicted of any offence relating to public order or offence against property. The provisions get worse as one reads on. In respect of criminal trespass it provides that the owner or occupier, including the Administration in cases of Administration land, of any land can require any person to leave, and if he fails to go, or returns, he can be forcibly ejected, and he is guilty of a criminal offence unless he has a reasonable belief in his right to enter. That is section 30. The mover merely says that this follows similar legislation in other places. 1 assume he means Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa and Greece. 
In relation to protection of genuine political activity, the mover says that section 32 is designed to protect any genuine political activity - that is to say, any such activity would not be restrained or made unlawful. But the section does not do that. It makes it lawful only for a person to point out in good faith defects in the Government or laws with a view to change by lawful means. This was referred to by the Minister. Apparently the only genuine political activity which is so protected is activity by indviduals acting separately. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
At the suspension of the sitting I was speaking of some of the restrictive measures imposed by the Public Order Ordinance in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. I responded to the challenge of the Minister by referring to the Ordinance as it had been proposed and the oppressive and restrictive measures which it incorporated. I indicated that the huge penalties of $500 for misdemeanours under the Ordinance were of such severity as could lead one to describe the Bill as a particularly savage piece of legislation. The Minister made some statement indicating that the Ordinance had been passed by the House of Assembly by 54 votes to 21. It is interesting to read a report from Angus Smales which was printed on 19th September with the date line: 'Port Moresby, Today'. The report stated: 
Australia's controversial public order legislation for Papua-New Guinea passed all stages in the Territory's House of Assembly this morning. About 10 non-aligned private members labelled the Bill 'police state legislation.' 
That is the point the Australian Labor Party is making. 
I will not take up the time of the Committee for much longer. The report continues: 
Australian Government representatives left nothing to chance in a strong lobbying campaign. They even sent Government cars to ensure the presence of conservative native members likely to support the Bill. 
This is a report which was printed in the Melbourne Herald'. The publication is dated 19th September 1970 and it is headed 'NG Crowd Control Bill Gets OK*. The reporter is Angus Smales. It is one of several reports which I have here. I have another one from 'Nation' and another one from the 'Australian'. But 1 will not quote those. 1 think 1 have made my point that it was the endeavour of the Administration to force this Ordinance through. It is for this reason that the Opposition is moving the request. It wants to force the Government to reconsider the Ordinance, lt is of no use the Minister saying that we have no power or that we should exercise no power over the House of Assembly. The Government has power, through the Administrator, to disallow. That is my belief. The Minister can correct me if that is not the case. I would have thought thai because of the sharp criticism which arose from many directions the Government would have exercised its power at least to postpone the Ordinance until November as was one suggestion. A considerable number of amendments were moved to the Bill but on the admission of  Mr Curtis  they were merely to reinforce the provisions rather than to amend them. 
To my mind no consideration has been given to the many complaints which have been levelled at the Administration for bringing down this legislation. It is inconceivable that in a Territory under our control we should have permitted the enactment of restrictive legislation which will have such a great effect upon people who are striving to reach self government" and a full democratic society. It is a backward step. In effect it conflicts with the Government's attitude in another field, namely, the indigenous or Aboriginal people of Australia. The Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  has indicated that the Commonwealth intends to remove all restrictive legislation imposed by the States. The strange thing is that the restrictions which are being imposed in the Territory are similar to the restrictions which have been imposed upon the Aboriginals under State legislation, especially in Queensland. Although the Commonwealth Government is endeavouring to remove the laws which discriminate against Aboriginals. 1 would say that it has been responsible and must accept the blame for imposing upon the people of Papua and New Guinea some of the most restrictive legislation which has ever been imposed upon any people. I ask for full support for the request which has been proposed in all sincerity by the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the request  (.Senator Georges's)  be agreed to. 
 - There are further requests. The Committee has agreed to that. So I am on my feet again. I take particularly strong objection to the side swipe of the Minister for Works when he spoke. Incidentally, I would say that he is responsible for the prolongation of the debate because on every occasion that he spoke he extended the area of controversy. If he has any complaints he should level them against himself. I am surprised that he, after having so much to say on the subject, attempted to apply the gag. I am nol concerned with nor will I try to evaluate what happened subsequent to that. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMANOrder! The honourable senator will be seated. 
There has been a misunderstanding. The closure motion was agreed to. The question then was: Are there any requests? This led to the misunderstanding. The question is: Are there any requests? That is the question now to be voted on. 
May I proceed? I think I can solve your problems for you,  Mr Temporary Chairman. 
To clarify the matter, we shall revert to the motion that the question be put. Are there any requests? 
As I understood the question which was put and upon which senators voted it was: Are there any requests?'. I understood there to be a very strong affirmative vote from all around the chamber. There were no noes. In terms of the question which was put there was an affirmative that there should be more requests. With respect, that might not have been what senators intended to be the result, but as I see the position, it is only fair that people should abide by the response they gave to the question you asked. 1 hope that if it is desired that the question be put the motion will be moved again when  Senator Georges  has finished and honourable senators will vote according to their intentions. 
 In order to get this debate to a conclusion 1 wish to speak briefly to the appropriation for item 0) of Division 280. I take objection to the side swipe of the Minister in saying that because we were unable to get a copy of the Public Order Ordinance our contribution to the debate was ill informed and misinformed. We applied for a copy of the Ordinance. I. believe that the administration of the Department is at fault by not providing the necessary Hansard reports and copies of the Ordinance to the Library so that we could obtain them when we needed them. I am not criticising the people in the Parliamentary Library. They give us tremendous assistance. The fact is that when I earlier sought copies of the Ordinance and the Hansard report they were not available. This document has now come to me. I do not know how I obtained this copy. 
make it clear to the Minister point by point. I have read the sections of the Ordinance. I have read the penalties provided and the implications of the particular sections to which I referred earlier. I have checked my material against the copy of the Ordinance I now have, and it accords with the Ordinance. It remains clear and unequivocal that the Ordinance is repressive and that the amendments made to the legislation were designed merely to reinforce it and not to improve it. The Minister cannot get away from the criticism which prompted the amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party. It is useless for the Minister to criticise honourable senators for not availing themselves of material when the material is not provided by the Department at a place accessible to us. I should not have to go to the Minister and plead for a copy of the Ordinance. Immediately I seek information he knows the line I am going to take. In some cases I may not want to disclose to the Department or to the Minister the line of inquiry I propose to take. I should be able to go to a neutral source to obtain my material. Had the Minister not introduced the wider implications that he did, we would not after 3 hours still be debating these estimates. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Civil Aviation 
Proposed expenditure, $72,823,000. 
 I am concerned about the turnover of geologists in the Bureau of Mineral Resources. Earlier in the year I asked a question and was given the following information in regard to the employment of geologists in the Bureau: In 1964-65 there were 5 commencements and . 19 cessations. So. in that year, there was a loss of 14. In 1965- 66 there were 5 commencements and 9 cessations, representing a loss of 4. In 1966- 67, 14 geologists were employed and only 9 were lost. So, there was a gain in that year. In 1967-68 there were 7 commencements and 10 cessations. In 1968-69 there were 13 commencements and 14 cessations. In 1969-70 there were 12 commencements and 10 cessations. In total, there were 56 commencements and 71 cessations. To my mind, that represents a loss rate that needs some explanation. I ask the Minister why this loss rate exists. Is it not a fact that it is affecting the Bureau's ability to assess the natural resources of the country and to prepare, recommend and lay down policies that will conserve those assets? 
In the second part of the answer to my question some salary rates were given. It seems that the top rate for a geologist or geophysicist - that is in class 5  -  is from $8,712 to $9,326 a year. To my limited knowledge, geologists with a small mining exploration company or a group of companies can receive up to $14,000 a year. It seems obvious on an initial look that the reason for the loss rate may lie in the salary scale. If that is the scale that is to be maintained, it is not surprising that there is a loss of men of this skill, which is of extremely high value to a rapidly developing country, especially in the mineral sector. I ask the Minister: Is that the reason for the great turnover? How is this affecting the Bureau? What steps are being taken to stop this flow of skilled people from the Bureau? 
The  Chairman  shall (unless otherwise ordered) call on each clause or item, and ask if any senator has any request to move thereon. 
No senator has moved thereon. The Standing Order continues: 
If no motion for a request is moved, or moved and negatived, the  Chairman  shall declare the clause or item passed. 1 suggest that as no request has been moved you should declare the clause or item passed. 
 The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  is adopting a rather strange attitude. 1 asked those questions. There is no date on this sheet. We do not normal,, have a date on them. 1 asked these question about 19th August this year. I asked: 
How many geophysicists have (a) been appointed to and (b) resigned from the Bureau of Mineral Resources in each year since 1964, including the available figure for this year. 
What are the salary ranges for geophysicists within the Bureau? 
Having obtained answers to those questions I now ask: What has been done by the Department to prevent this flow of geologists from the Department? It is obvious to me that the suggestion could be made that an approach be made to the Public Service Board for an increase in the salaries of these men so that they will not go elsewhere. If the market value of these men is $14,000 a year it follows that the Public Service Board or the Department ought to be doing something about this matter. If they do not they will continue to lose officers. 
I then asked: How does this adversely affect the Department? I want to know whether the Department is affected by the loss, to what extent it is affected and what it is doing about the matter. Those are reasonable requests. I would have thought that answers to them are not included in the answers I already have to my earlier questions. I asked those Questions tonight in order to investigate what was happening. 1 am asking what the Government is doing about this. 
I want to deal wilh Divisions 350 and 368, Northern Territory services. 1 move: 
That ihe House of Representatives be requested lo amend the Second Schedule by reducing the proposed expenditure for the Department of the interior by $2. 
As an indication to the Government: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that there is a compelling need for the Commonwealth to vest control of existing Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory in a public trust or trusts composed of Aborigines on terms that no such land be alienated without the approval of the Federal Parliament. 
I move that motion as a matter of urgency because, briefly, a conflict has developed between the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of the Interior. There is a conflict of policy which needs to be determined. When one considers that the record of the Department of the Interior in connection with Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory is about as good as that of Queensland one can see that the record is very low indeed. We have been critical of the State of Queensland in regard to its treatment of Aboriginals. But in the area which we ourselves control our record is not a good one. This conflict of which I speak between the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of the Interior is one which bodes ill for the welfare of Aboriginals in the area. The Australian Labor Party is asking that the Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory be placed under trust so that no such land will be alienated.. 1 will not keep the Committee very long. There are a number of reserves in the Northern Territory. There is Amoonguna of 2 square miles, Arnhem Land of 37,167 square miles, Bagot of 57 acres, Bathurst Island of 800 square miles, Beswick of 1,315 square miles, Daly of 5,200 square miles. Hooker Creek of 845 square miles, Jay Creek of 116 square miles, Melville Island of 2,220 square miles. Warrabri of 170 square miles, and Yuendumu of 850 square miles making a total of 44,800 square miles. This may sound a big area but when compared with the Vestey empire it is a small area indeed. We are suggesting that at this time these areas should be brought under public trust and protected so that they cannot be alienated. Even at this late stage I feel it would be a step in the right direction to protect these reserves. I now find that the figure which I gave for the total area of the reserves is not correct because there are some reserves on the other side of the page. I will not name them but they bring the total area to 94,196 square miles. Incidentally, the permanent Aboriginal population on those reserves is 12,976. We are speaking not only of an area of land but of a considerable number of people. 
The Department of the Interior made a statement which, as I said before, indicates the urgency of this matter. In a newspaper article it has been stated: 
. last September 3. when the Minister for the Interior,  Mr Nixon,  stated Interior policy in the most unequivocal terms yet. 
. 'The Government believes that it is wholly wrong lo encourage Aboriginals to think that because their ancestors have had a long association with a particular piece of land, Aboriginals of the present day have the right lo demand ownership of it.' . . . 
This statement conflicts directly with the attitude of the Minister in Charge of Aboriginals Affairs  (Mr Wentworth).  To our knowledge the principle as outlined by the Minister for the Interior has not been discussed, debated or defined by the Government. So tonight we are asking for a vote to make certain that these areas are not alienated and are brought under public trust. Honourable senators may ask why we should do this immediately, lt is not only because of the statement by the Minister for the Interior but also if honourable senators look at these areas they  will find that mineral leases have already been granted by the Northern Territory Administration or the Mines Department, whichever body is concerned. We find that in Arnhem Land companies are involved already. This is what we mean by alienation. These areas ought not to be alienated and leases for exploitation ought not to be given to companies. I shall list these companies and throw the motion to the Senate. In Arnhem Land 3 companies are involved. They are Swiss Aluminium Australia Pty Ltd and Gove Alumina Ltd, and Western Nuclear (Australia) Pty Ltd. At Groote Eylandt there is Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Ltd. Authority to prospect has been given to various companies. In Arnhem Land there is the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd; United Uranium N.L,; Noronda Australia Ltd; Air Navigators Pty Ltd; G. D. Stevens, C. M. Stevens and P. N. Craven; Nevsam Mining Company; United States Steel International (New York) Inc.; H. Brennan; Queensland Mines Ltd and a number of others. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate the names of the other companies in Hansard. These are companies which have authority to prospect across other reserves. 
Alusuisse Mining Pty Ltd. 
Australian Acquitaine Petroleum N.L. 
Geopeko Ltd. 
Namilmil. 
Larab (No. Nine) Pty Ltd. 
Bathurst Island: 
John Holland (Constructions) Pty Ltd. 
Daly River: 
Plant Mining Coy. Pty Ltd. 
Haasts Bluff: 
C. Baldissera 
Central Pacific Minerals N.'L. and Magellan 
Petroleum (N.T.) Pty Ltd.(joint holders) 
Gustav Malbanka 
Melville Island: 
Alusuisse Mining Pty Ltd. 
Petermann: 
Newmont Pty Ltd. 
E. Bitters 
Docker River Social Club 
Wagait: 
Smith and R. Bettencourt 
Corella Exploration No. 1 Pty Ltd. 
Woolwonga: 
Geopeko Ltd. 
Mining and timber royalties and rents on leases other than mining leases, in respect of any land which is an Aboriginal reserve after 2nd September 1953, are payable as prescribed in the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910- 1969 into the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund constituted under the Act. 
The rates for these royalties and rents are determined by or under Northern Territory Legislation. 
Honourable senators can see the extent of the possibility of alienation of these reserves. Surely we can make a decision in Australia which has been made in other places. 
On behalf  of the  Opposition,  as an  amendment  to the  motion  that the Bill be  read a second time, I move: 
At end of motion add: but the Senate is of opinion that it should state a total programme required to meet the needs of the Aboriginal people and provide now a larger amount of money towards meeting that programme, and a better allocation of the funds between existing needs; and that the Common  wealth request the States of Queensland and Western Australia to take immediate legislative action to abolish all discriminatory Acts and Regulations in both States.' 
In view of the fact that we are now at the end of a parliamentary session it is my intention to be very brief in my remarks but I wish to emphasise the reasons why the Opposition has moved this amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. The first part of the amendment states that a total programme should be evaluated so that funds which are now becoming available in larger amounts maybe put to better use.If a total programme is evaluated and the amount of money now made available is insufficient, additional funds should be made available to correct the situation in which the Aboriginal people find themselves in various parts of Australia. At present a considerable amount of money is expended for the welfare of the Aboriginal. In this financial year the States and the Commonwealth will expend about $25m in assistance for the Aboriginal people. That amount does not include other forms of assistance given to Aboriginal people by way of social services and unemployment benefits. That amount of $25m is an increase on the amount expended in this direction in 1969-70. It seems strange to those people who move in areas where Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders live that there is no evidence of expenditure of a nature which reaches the individual Aboriginal. 
No-one would question the intentions or the motives of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. I would say that it has endeavoured with good intention, in terms of ideas and expenditure, to improve the lot of the Aboriginal, but for some reason, despite the increased expenditure and the good intentions of that Office, the individual Aboriginal is still not receiving any visible practical assistance. It is for this reason that we believe it is necessary to have a total programme evaluated so that money now being expended on Aboriginal advancement will in the future be expended with the greatest possible effect. 
The second part of the amendment states that the Opposition is of the belief that the Commonwealth should request the States of Queensland and Western Australia to take immediate legislative action to abolish all discriminatory Acts and regulations in both States. The Opposition believes that this is a most important step because discriminatory legislation is the greatest barrier confronting the Commonwealth in its attempts to improve the lot of the Aboriginal. Many Aboriginals still exist under the control of laws which are repressive, oppressive and discriminatory. While they exist under these laws it is not possible to advance the cause of the Aboriginal or the Torres Strait Islander as much as we would like to do. The Office of Aboriginal Affairs is continually confronted by discriminatory legislation in Western Australia and in Queensland and it is unable to break through this barrier in order to give the effective assistance which it desires to give to the Aboriginal. To enable this assistance to be given we on this side feel that these Acts in Queensland and in Western Australia should be repealed or that the Commonwealth should use its powers to transcend State powers. However, it is the vievv of the Opposition that it would be more effective if the States took the action which this amendment seeks and that is to abolish all discriminatory Acts and regulations in Queensland and in Western Australia. 
I will briefly indicate how discriminatory the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders' Affairs Act 1965 is. In a petition which was circulated in Queensland these questions were asked: 
Would you want the Government to have these powers over you? 
Transfer you from one part of Queensland to another against your will. 
The Aboriginals who live under this Act in Queensland are not free to move about as they have said themselves, and they are subject to this imposition. The next item states: 
Refuse to let you travel away from your home. 
There are many Aboriginals who are in this position. The next states: 
Refuse to let people living elsewhere, even relations, visit you. 
Control how you spend your money. 
Set your wages by Government Regulation instead of by industrial award or agreement. 
Could you feed and clothe a family (as Aborigines on Reserves are expected to do) on wages ranging from $10 to $25 a week? 
Put you under a form of house arrest for an unlimited period of time without trial. 
That is a power which is exercised in many areas of Queensland. The petition continues: 
This is your punishment if you, for example: 
Attempt to leave or escape from a Reserve. 
Fail to obey any lawful instruction of the Manager. 
Are idle, negligent or careless at work. 
This is, of course, at the discretion or interpretation of the manager of a reserve. The article continues: 
In any other way offend against discipline or good order of the Reserve. 
The . Government has all of these powers over Aborigines and Islanders on Reserves. 
It is the opinion of those responsible for circulating this petition that the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders' Affairs Act 1965 oppresses the Aboriginals of Queensland and that it is a denial of human rights. They demand that the Act be abolished. This is the purpose of our amendment. It must be realised that people who live under such a restrictive Act are unable to respond to the assistance which the Commonwealth is endeavouring to provide. Their limited education makes it almost impossible for Aboriginals te take advantage of legislation which provides them with opportunities for appeal against restrictions, lt is with concern that we approach this subject. 
I have with me a summary with an appendix attached of the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders' Affairs Act 1965. It sets out the conditions of remuneration available to Aboriginals on reserves and the conditions under which payments are made. The summary consists of 4 pages but I think that it is important for me to read from it. This document was prepared by Abschol, a group which works on behalf of Aboriginals. This document comes from that group at the University of Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland. With the concurrence of honourable senators. I incorporate this document in Hansard. It reads: 
THE ABORIGINAL AND ISLANDAFFAIRS ACT OF 1965 
The following summary does not cover all of this act. It is intended to deal only with those parts which are very important or particularly objectionable. Emphasis is given to those provisions which cause most complaints among Aborigines. 
The basic philosophy of this act seems to be that the Aborigines it covers must be closely  controlled by the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs (hereafter referred to as the department). No meaningful form of self-determation is permitted. Apparent attempts at this are aborted by the close departmental control exerted. 
In reading the act, or this summary, it is important to bear in mind the people with whom it deals. Aborigines on reserves have grown up believing that they had no rights at all and that they must always obey the white staff on the reserve. Under the previous acts and other directors this belief was very close to being correct. Even if this is no longer so this upbringing ensures that the Aborigine is unlikely to argue with any decision of the manager and is very unlikely to go as far as to appeal against his decision. This becomes more apparent when we consider the possible penalties for any such opposition - removal from the reserve, transfer to the other end of Queensland, complete loss of income and thus food (other than what can be obtained from friends) or house arrest for an indeterminate period. The Aborigine knows these things can occur because he has seen them happen or knows ot some-one to whom they have happened. Some of these do not occur often but the threat is always there. lt is also important to realise that the Aborigine on the reserve has very little formal education - perhaps 5 years of schooling would be the average for the adults. Thus even where the act does give him some rights, e.g., the right to appeal, he is unlikely to know this and is probably unable to use them. The difficulty of access to the reserves for outsiders ensures that he does not learn to exercise these rights. Thus while it may be true that the Queensland Full Court will take action against abuses of power by the administrators of the act it is highly unlikely that any Aborigine will bring before them a complaint. 30,000 Aborigines and Islanders are subject to this act. 
In this summary 'The Manager' refers to the official of the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs who is in charge of a reserve or settlement. 
The District Officer' refers to the official of the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs who is in charge of one of the districts of Queensland. This may or may not include one or more reserves. 
The Director' refers to the official in charge of the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs. He is subject only to the Minister of Aboriginal and Island Affairs, the political head. 
Declaration under and exemption from the act 
The 1965 act differentiates between those Aborigines to be assisted and those not requiring aid. A period of twelve months was set aside during which the director could 'declare any Aborigine, part-Aborigine or person having a strain of Aboriginal blood to be an assisted Aborigine' (Sect. 17). With this went the power to declare under the act any of the children of assisted Aborigines if they hadnot attained or not apparently attained 17 years of age (S.19). 
After the transitory twelve months, admission to the act was, if voluntary, by an application to the Director (S.18). Also included in the act are provisions for compulsory entry under the act. Thus if the Director or any authorised officer finds a personhas a strain of Aboriginal blood' and should in his best interest be declared' he may require him to appear in court and 'to answer the complaint and to be further dealt with according to law' (S.20). The court may declare the Aborigine as needing assistance and put him under the act. In addition when an Aborigine or partAborigine comes before a court the presiding officer may declare the Aborigine to need assistance and put him under the act 'whether or not such person was convicted of the offence with which he was charged' (S.21). 
Exemption from the act may be declared by the Director at his own discretion or upon receipt of an application for exemption. If such application is refused an appeal can be made to a magistrate's court as discussed later. 
Two important points should be made to clarify the situation. Members of Parliament continuuously receive requests for help to get out from under the act. lt is also notable that Aborigines refer to the 'unassisted' as 'free men' and talk about getting their freedom when making application for exemptions. This shows the degree to which they feel oppressed by the act. 
This is not to say that all assisted Aborigines want to be exempted from the act. As things stand exemption means that the Aborigine must leave the reserve. Many Aborigines have lived there all their lives and still want to. They don't like the restrictions under which they live but prefer them to being forced to leave their home. The restrictions after all, are only what they are used to. 
The reserves 
Within the preliminary to the 1965 act, Parliament specified that all existing reserves were to continue as such (S.4 (11)).It is important to examine the extent and generality of the powers assigned to the Manager and to the department. 
The most general powers are contained in Regulations 10-13 and apply to 'every resident on or visitor to' the reserve. Thus all must 'conform to a reasonable standard of good conduct' (R.10), must 'obey all lawful instructions of the Director. District Officer, Manager, Councillors or other officers of such Reserve' CR.il) and must not do any act subversive of good order or discipline on a Reserve' (R.12). Even when a non-resident is authorised to bc on the reserve,he may not interfere with the normal duties or activities of any assisted person' (R.16). Naturally the Manager as the senior officer would be the one to decide, at least in the first instance, on what is a reasonable standard of conduct, what acts subvert good order and what interferes with normal duties. 
The wide scope of these powers is easily susceptible to misuse and gives to the manager almost absolute power over the actions of all on the reserve. Colin Tatz, in his article 'Queensland Aborigines, Natural Justice and the Rule of Law' (Australian Quarterly, Sept. 1963) quotes many documented cases of breaches of similar regulations in the act then in force. He shows how they were used to deal with such diverse topics as arson, assault, bribery, drunkenness, theft and trespass. 
The regulations not only authorise the manager to eject anyone 'who enters or remains on a Reserve without the Manager's authority (R.13) but also make it an offence for anyone to bring onto a reserve 'anything which in the opinion of the Manager' is likely 'to disturb the peace, harmony, order or discipline of such reserve' (R 17). 
Section 34 gives the Director power to forcibly move an assisted Aborigine not living on a reserve onto any reserve in Queensland. The Director may remove an assisted Aborigine from the reserve by cancelling his certificate of entitlement (R.24) or may, on the recommendation of an Aboriginal Court, transfer him from one reserve to another (S.34). The wishes of the assisted Aborigine need not be considered. Appeals against each of these decisions may be made as discussed below. No non-resident of a reserve can enter it without permisison of the manager (R.13). This means that a non-resident Aborigine, born on a reserve with perhaps parents still living there, cannot enter without permission. Nor can the parents leave the reserve to visit the son without permission (R.70). These two provisions cause more complaints than any other in the act. 
Detention in a dormitory can be enforced by the Manager, Aboriginal Court or Visiting Justice (R.70). Acts which are punishable by detention include attempts to escape or illegally leave the Reserve; 'failure to carry out instruction in hygiene, sanitation or infant welfare', being guilty of immoral conduct or committing an offence against discipline. The basic philosophy of the act, that of control of the people it covers, is shown by the definition offered as an offence against discipline (R.70). Breaches are seenas failing to obey 'lawful instructions', behaviour which is offensive, threatening, insolent, insulting, disorderly, obscene or indecent', wilful damage, being either idle, careless or negligent  al  work or 'IN ANY OTHER WAY OFFENDS AGAINST DISCIPLINE OR GOOD ORDER OF THE RESERVE OR COMMUNITY'. 
The  maximum  term of detention before review is six months. Further detention requires a report to the Director. If the Director and Manager so wish there is no limit to the period of detention. The Manager has the power to release the detained person at any time (R.70). 
Aboriginal Councils. 
The Aboriginal Councils seem a liberal attempt to develop self-management on the Reserves. R.21 defines their role as that of 'local government of the Reserve' and, as such they are responsible for the 'good rule and government' of the Reserve or Community. The most pleasing aspect is the acknowlegement of cultural influences - such government is to be 'in accordance  with  Aboriginal customs and practices'. Furthermore, the Council is given the power and authority to make By-laws, such as 'regulating and controlling peace (R.22), including setting maximum penalties which can be used in the Aboriginal Court (maximum of $40 and/or 14 days imprisonment). 
Other powers include passing By-laws to determine 'the direction, administration and control of the working and business of the local government of the Reserve'. R.22 (See also R.23), it can also pass resolutions (R.20) and levy fees, rents and dues. (R.2S). Despite the apparently wide powers assigned to it, the Council is continually subject to the Director. No By-Law can have effect until approved by the Director (R.28), and each order or resolution is subject to the will of the Manager, who may suspend it, 'either for an indefinite period or for such a period as he may specify'. R.31 (1). The normal appeal mechanism applies. 
All communal income (rents, fines, dues) is paid into a Community Fund (R.45) and 'A disbursement shall not be made from a Community Fund unless the manager approves' (R.46). Thus the manager controls all the council's finance and has another effective method of blocking any of its actions that he wishes to. No appeal mechanism exists. 
The council consist of 4 assisted Aborigines only 2 of whom are elected. The other 2 are appointed by the Director. 
Any assisted Aborigine who has been convicted of an offence against the Act, Regulations or By-Laws in the previous two years is not eligible to stand for election (R.33). The scope of the powers allotted to the manager give him a considerable degree of control over such convictions and thus over who is eligible to stand for election. 
The Director may remove any of the members of an Aboriginal Council (R.19). 
Aboriginal Courts. 
The courts are to consist of at least two Aboriginal Justices of the Peace (if the community does nol have 2 J.P.'s then at least three members of the Aboriginal Council will then form the Court). (R.48). Its power is defined as (a) bearing and determining complaints for offences against any By-Law or regulation and imposing penalties and (b) hearing and determining any action set out in "The Magistrates Court Act of 1921" in which the amount involved does not exceed two hundred dollars. The Court can only act in relation to assisted Aborigines and only within the reserve in which it is constituted. 
The members of the court receive no training in their duties. Usually they do not fully comprehend the proceedings and are easily influenced by anyone who does. This, plus their natural desire not to get into the bad books of the Manager givesto him considerable control over their activities. Aboriginal Police. 
Regulations 67-69 allow for the establishment of such a force. Their role is seen as that of assisting the maintenance of good order and discipline on and supervision of a Reserve or community'. The Manager nol only may make the rules regarding the Police Force but can also 'promote, disrate, suspend or dismiss any policeman' (R.69). 
The power of the police is to 'arrest and bring before an Aboriginal Court any assisted Aborigine who breaches the act or the regulations, or a 'lawful command' of the Manager. The police also have the power to arrest any assisted person who is to be removed (S.34) by the order of the Director. No effective training is given to the Aboriginal Police. 
Appeals. 
Appeals to a magistrates court are available for more decisions which the act allows the department to make on behalf of the assisted Aborigine. This appeal must be made in writing. Considering the high rate of illiteracy of Aboriginal adults (average education is about 5 years at school) this implies the heavy dependence they must place on white employees of the department for assistance in their appeal against decisions of the department. 
Perhaps the most telling argument against the effectiveness of the appeal mechanism against administrative decisions is that it is very rarely used. This is despite continued complaints about these decisions. It may be that the basic reason for this is that since the Manager controls every aspect of the reserve and the life of its residents, accepting his decisions is a small price to pay to avoid antagonising him. 
Appeals are also available against decisions of the Aboriginal Court. The procedure is similar except that the first court of appeal is the District Officer, and the second, the Visiting Justice. 
Funds. 
The sense of control over nearly every aspect of the assisted Aborigines life Ls further extended in the financial sector with the provision of a series of Funds. 
In addition to the Community fund already mentioned, the Aboriginal Welfare Fund is set up, which is to be 'maintained for the general benefit of persons having a strain of Aboriginal blood' fR.4). The money is derived from the proceeds of any transactions by the reserve e.g. produce such as cattle. At no stage is there any indication as to what form 'general benefit' might take. 
The department can take complete control of the financial affairs of an assisted Aborigine, exercising all powers which he himself would otherwise have (S.38). All his income is then paid into a trust fund account which is operated on by the Director or his delegate who allocates to the Aborigine such funds as he (the Director) decides 'are required by the said assisted person or are necessary for pay. ment of his just debts'. 
Appendix A. 
It has been claimed by some that the discretion allowed to the director or manager of a reserve are not unusual and that various officials have similar discretion over while citizens. Thus the governor can dismiss a white council just as the director can dismiss Aboriginal councillors. The difference is that the governor has no direct connection with, say, the town council of Toowoomba and will act only if something very unusual occurs while the manager is the administrator of the reserve and may act to prevent opposition to his policies. 
The list below gives powers the department can exercise over the assisted Aborigine that no official has over the white community without court intervention. 
Transfer from one part of Queensland to another. 
Full control over the income of the person. 
House arrest for an indeterminate period without trial. 
Wages set by government regulations rather than by the industrial courts or by agreement. 
The Department can force a man to leave his job. 
Appendix B. 
Form No. 15 - Queensland. 
The Aborigines' and Torres Strait Islanders' Affairs Acts, 1965 to 1967' Regulation 74. 
Wage Rates 
The minimum rate of wages payable to assisted persons employed under 'The Aborigines' and Torres Strait Islanders' Regulations 1966' in addition to food and accommodation shall be as follows: 
General station hands - 
Drover in charge, head stockman or stockman in charge of out-stations, general station hands, drovers, musterers and stockmen - In accordance with the Station Hands' Award. 
Youths under the age of 21 years - 
Experience - In accordance with the Station Hands' Award. 
Inexperienced Trainees - 
During first year of employment - $13 per week 
During second year of employment - $15.00 per week 
During third year of employment - $17.00 per week 
Employees other than General Station Hands, but including houseboys, yardmen, employed at or about a dwelling-house - 
Adults - $23.00 per week 
Under 21 years - $19 per week 
Under 20 years - $17.00 per week 
Under 19 years - $15.00 per week 
Under 18 years - $13.00 per week 
Male employees not specifically herein mentioned - The same rates as prescribed in the preceding item (c). 
Abuses of this power are common. The following Memorandum was written by the District Officer in Chillagoe to the District Officers in Cairns and Mareeba, and was dated 16th April, 1969. 
Dear Sirs, 
D .... D .... of Chillagoe is travelling to both Cairns and Mareeba and is expected back in Chillagoe in approximately 6 weeks time. 
D .... is a waster and it would bc appreciated if only small amounts were given for pocket money. 
A/c. as at 31/2/69- $1,981.72. 
Yours faithfully..... District Officer, 
Chillagoc. lt is frequently not possible for an assisted Aborigine to obtain record of his bank account. Requests for such a record are simply not answered or are answered with incomplete information. 
The power to take control of the finances of an assisted Aborigine can be a powerful method of punishment. Thus in Normanton as a result of a brawl in a hotel, the two combatants had their allowance witheld for a month. As this was their only source of cash income for the families, the persons concerned were left to fend as best they were able, off the charity of the rest of the community. 
Employment. 
Any assisted Aborigine working outside a reserve can be withdrawn from this work by the Director (R.72). 
The District Officer or Manager can demand that the employer of an assisted Aborigine pay the wages, in full or in part, directly to said District Officer or Manager (R.73). 
The wages rations and accommodation paid to the assisted Aborigine other than in those cases covered by an award arc laid down by the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs and are set out in schedule 15 (R.75) Appendix B. 
Examples of the wages paid on reserves are the following figures for Yarrabah in 1969. 
Yarrabah was then on a cash economy so everything must be provided from the wages - 
Weekly Wage 
Truck Driver- $18.00 
Tractor Driver- $10.00-$ 16.00 
Labourer- $8.00-$ 16.00 
Mechanic- $22.00 
Painter- $14.00 
Ganger- $18.00-$23.00 
Carpenter- $1 8.00 (probably trained on Police Constable- $10.00-$16.00 
It is difficult to see how a man can keep his wife and, perhaps six children on $10.00 a week. That malnutrition is so widespread on Queensland reserves (e.g. see  Dr Stewart,  Department of Childrens Health) is hardly surprising. It is also difficult to understand why a labourer on a reserve is only worth one-third as much as a labourer elsewhere. 
Cooks and Domestic Servants - 
Cooks - Male (cooking for 13 persons or more) - In accordance with Station Hands' Award 
Cooks - Male (having less than three years' expereicne-$24.00perweek Cooks - Female (cooking for 10 persons or more) - In accordance with Station Hands' Award 
Cooks - Female (having less than three years' experience) (cooking for 10 persons or more) - $18.00 per week 
Domestic Servants - Female - 
Having three years' experience (over 18) - $15.00 per week 
Not having three years' experience (over 18)- $11.00 per week 15 to 18 years- $10.00 per week 
Slow, aged, infirm or retarded workers - General station hands and stockmen - $28.00 per week 
Youths under 21 - $14.00 per week 
Or such rale as shall be determined by the District 
Officer is writing with the approval in writing of the Director of Aboriginal and Island Affairs first obtained. 
Married couples - 
Husbands in accordance with regulation scale of wages for particular occupation in which engaged. Wife at regulation rates, 
Horse and Saddle Allowance - In accordance with Station Hands' Award. 
Employees engaged by the hour shall be paid one-fortieth of the appropriate weekly rate, plus 15 per cent. There shall be a rninimum of three hours' pay and one meal shall be provided. 
The value of keep for all purposes, including the computing of payment to employees working overtime or on annual leave shall be deemed to be $2.50 per week. 
Food and accommodation shall be supplied to every employee in accordance with clause 75 of "The Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders' Regulations of 1966'. Provided that where it is not possible for the employer to provide food and accommodation as aforesaid the employer shall pay the employee an extra allowance of not less $2.50 per week. 
General. 
Notwithstanding anything herein contained, a District Officer shall claim higher rates than the rates hereby prescribed when he is satisfied that the ability of the assisted person warrants such higher payment. 
In order that the Senate may be given some idea of how the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs reacts to the activities of organisations such as Abschol, I desire to read the words of the Director of this Department as set out in his annual report. 1 think honourable senators will agree with me that the petition presented by Abschol is a reasonable one. I think that it is in keeping with the comments of the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  and members of his Office when they have spoken of the discriminatory attitude of the Queensland Government. 
It is interesting to read the way in which the Director of the Queensland Department in his annual report refers to these people who endeavour to assist Aboriginals and their cause. Many, many people do endeavour to assist them. Perhaps this is because of some conscious or unconscious guilt that we all have when we consider the position of the Aboriginal people. This feeling was reflected in the tremendous vote at the referendum in 1967. Perhaps it is this which causes so many group, organisations and individuals to work for the Aboriginal people. The Director of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in his annual report dated 30th June 1970 states: 
The year, however, has not been uneventful. It has been significant that an increase has occurred in the numbers who seek to attain notoriety by advocating an 'Aboriginal cause'. 
These advocacies have been generally of a pressure group' nature, some of their most vocal proponents being from other States, and without any real responsibility or indeed consideration for the persons affected by the doctrines espoused. 
Those most vociferous have generally also been noticeable by a lack of any real personal contribution or involvement particularly in the welfare field. 
While introduction of new ideas is both welcome and beneficial, it is considered that such ideas should be constructive; however, some performances experienced during the year can only be described as regrettable, unconcerned and mischievous. 
People of Aboriginal ancestry, as a result of a lack of public interest in the past, have enough difficulties of their own and these, together with those arising out of an apparently remorseful public conscience, are more than sufficient. The introduction of radical and subversive activities do little other than add to this burden and can constitute a definite hindrance to the progress of Aboriginal Queenslanders. 
So we see that immediately considerable criticism is directed against the Queensland Act and the Queensland Department, that criticism is described as being the introduction of radical and subversive activities which do little to assist. That is the interpretation of the activities and endeavours by groups such as Abschol and many others to assist Aboriginals. I would say that, in his description, the Director would need to include the activity of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. It would fall within that classification because the approach of the Office in many ways has been radical when compared with the conservatism of the past and, for example, the attitude of the Department of the Interior in the Northern Territory as expressed, I believe, in a debate last night. 
The Director continues in his annual report: 
It would seem also that the period has confirmed the emergence of an 'elite' group who might be described as 'professional' and/or Pseudo' Aborigines, many of whom advocate particular doctrines but who have either become isolated from tha main stream of Aboriginal people or have, in fact, never been in close contact or consultation with the wider segment of Aboriginal Queenslanders who consider themselves truly Aborigines.  1 leave the Senate to judge the statements by this man who is responsible for the control of the many large Aboriginal reserves in Queensland. This man considers all or most activities on behalf of people from the south as subversive activities. He considers those engaged in such activities as 'pseudo Aboriginals' - whatever that may mean. I believe that the failure of the Queensland Government - or its inability - to become aware immediately of the discriminatory measures in the Act is due to the attitudes - the old reactionary attitudes - of the man in Queensland who is responsible for the Administration of the Act. For this purpose, I have moved my amendment and I strongly advocate that it be supported. 
 When we were last debating this measure we were considering provisions to prevent the effects of pollution by oil of the Australian coast, Australian coastal waters and Australian reefs. There are one or two remarks only that I want to make in conclusion. I was directing the Minister's attention to the habit that coastal tankers, in particular, have of cleansing their tanks as they move inside the Great Barrier Reef. This practice is called Butterworthing. I trust that in relation to preventing pollution by oil the Minister will examine this practice to see whether the provisions relating to overseas vessels can be applied to vessels operating off the Australian coast so that the cleansing of tanks, by pumping water into the tank and discharging the oil and the water, can be undertaken at the place where the oil is refined. 
I would like the Minister to look carefuly at the type of dispersant that is used and to seek advice to ensure that such material used in cleansing does not cause more damage than the oil itself. It is important that this aspect be considered. I was somewhat concerned about an answer I received to a question about the advisability of tankers moving outside the Great Barrier Reef area. The reply indicated that such a course was commercially unattractive to the companies. The whole of the Great Barrier Reef area should not be exposed to threat simply because of the extra cost imposed on companies in operating their tankers outside the Reef area and further out to sea. If this is commercially unattractive it should be made even more commercially unattractive for vessels to travel between the Reef and the coast. With these remarks I indicate that the Opposition does not oppose the Bill and I commend its speedy passage. 
I wish to add a few brief words to. what has been said about the late  Senator Ormonde.  When I became a senator a short time ago, it was my privilege to sit next to Jim Ormonde. I benefited from the advice that he gave me. As honourable senators arc well aware, 1 needed that advice quite often. I, and other honourable senators, gained considerably from his experience, from his good humour and from his advice. I will find this corner a particularly lonely one for the next 6 months. I wish to add to the condolences which have been extended to his wife, whom I came to know very well, and to members of his family who I am sure will follow the tradition of Jim Ormonde. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What has been the average price per pound paid for tobacco leaf grown in Australia in each of the last 3 years. 
I wish to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the question asked of him earlier by  Senator Keeffe  concerning the purchase of DC3 aircraft to give to Cambodia. When the Leader of the Government is searching out information on this subject will he ascertain why it was necessary to buy 6 DC3 aircraft from Jetair Australia Ltd when others were available and will he take steps to assure the Senate that this was not a convenient arrangement to assist Jetair's directors to rid themselves of a serious liability, especially when at least one of its directors is closely associated with leading members of the Liberal Party of Australia? 
In view of the last part of the honourable senator's question and until the honourable senator explains himself more fully, I do not feel disposed to give any answer because the last part of the question was a backhanded inferential slur, intended as such, and 1 will not treat the question as a serious one until he lays on the line what he is trying to say. 
May I. be so brash as to ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate why, when the Senate voted against the lifting of the embargo on merino rams, the Prime Minister had the audacity to use Royal Australian Air Force aircraft to facilitate their export to Russia? 
We have debated this matter a number of times. It would be an odd circumstance if it were regarded as audacity - if that is the appropriate word - for the Government, which has to accept the responsibility to govern, to choose to do something which was in contradiction to what the Senate resolved. The very process of government in our democratic system is such that we can express a view, that we can pass resolutions, that we can move amendments and that we can seek requests. Under the Constitution, we have our rights and powers. 
But it was ignored. 
The honourable senator has been here long enough now and he is quick enough on the uptake to know that whilst the Senate can express a view, that view is not necessarily binding on the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
For each of the years 1967-68, 1968-69, 1969- 70, what has been the average import price into Japan of coking coal from (a) Queensland: (b) New South Wales; (c) Canada; (d) United States of America; (e) Poland; (f) Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; and (g) any other major' exporters. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Department of National Development made, or is it aware of, any comprehensive survey of the mineral sand resources cif the east coast of Australia. 
If a survey has been made, what are the total expected reserves, and what proportion of this total lies within the proposed Cooloola National Park. 
If no survey has been conducted, will the Minister instigate one. to enable the alternatives to be clearly understood when it is decided to prevent mining in an area of unique natural beauty. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What has been the average world price, during the past year, for each type of ore obtained fromthe mining of mineral sands in Australia. 
What has been the average world price, for each of the metals obtained, from the final stage of processing each of these ores. 
What has been the average world price at any intermediate stage of processing. 
What is the value of any by-products obtained in the processing. 
Is such processing beyond the capabilities of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What has been the total amount of petroleum search subsidy paid for off-shore exploratory work in the area of the Great Barrier Reef. 
What are the names of the companies which have received subsidy, how much have they received each year for off-shore work in the area, and under which permits or authorities to prospect was exploration carrier out. 
What were the relevant costs on which subsidy has been paid. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What has been the number of (a) petroleum and (b) mining companies whose shareholders have been entitled to the benefits provided in the Income Tax Assessment Act designed to induce investment in companies formed with the intention of undertaking petroleum and mining exploration and development for (i) 1969-70 and (ii) the period since provisions of this type first came into operation. 
How many of the companies in the above categories and during the said periods had their initial share issue oversubscribed. 
How many of the above companies had the opening stock market price exceed the share issue price and by what maximum and average percentage. 
If the information sought in (2) and (3) above is not available will the Treasurer please obtain it as part of a study to assess whether such tax deductions are necessary to induce the necessary investment. 
Special taxation concessions have been available in respect of moneys paid on shares in petroleum exploration and mining companies since 1959 and in respect of general mining companies since 1962. The Commissioner of Taxation advises that the number of companies whose shareholders have been entitled to these taxation concessions Is as follows: 
These figures do not include those companies whose shareholders have been entitled to a deduction in respect of one-third of the calls paid on shares in mining companies, as details are not available in these cases. 
For the 1969/70 income year, information is not yet available, lt should be noted that, as from 1 July 1969. the concession in respect of moneys paid on shares does not. distinguish between petroleum mining and general mining companies; as a result, separate statistics for petroleum and general mining companies will not become available. 
and (3) This information is not available. 
The lengthy inquiries needed to obtain the information sought would, in my view, not be justified. The taxation concessions have undoubtedly encouraged investment in mining companies but there are a number of other factors which influence the market price nf particular shares and the success or otherwise of particular share issues. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry upon notice: 
(a) With which countries in (i) Asia (ii) Africa and (iii) South America has Australia had an unfavourable balanceof trade for each of the last 5 years and (b) what was the amount of the balance in each case 
(a) With which countries in (i) Asia (ii) Africa and (iii) South America has Australia bad a favourable balance of trade, for each of the last 5 years and (b) what was the amount of the balance in each case. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Attached are tables setting out Australia's trade balance with (i) Asia (ii) Africa and (iii) South America. The tables were compiled from Overseas Trade Bulletins published by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 

<graphic href="047232197102160_35_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="047232197102160_36_0.jpg"></graphic>

In addressing my question to the Minister for Air I refer to the purchase of DC3 aircraft from Jetair. Is it  a  fact that the Royal Australian Air Force had 7 DC3 aircraft available for disposal at Laverton? Can he explain why only 3 of them were made available for external aid and 4 were allowed to remain rotting away at the base? How does this fit in with the Government's austerity campaign, especially since these planes needed only $5,000 to  be  spent on them to make them airworthy whereas the Department -of Foreign Affairs is reported to have paid Jetair 540,000 for each of the aircraft obtained from that company? 
1 wish to direct a question to the Minister for Air. I want to be clear on a particular point. Am 1 to understand that the Department of Air was not asked by the Department of Foreign Affairs or the Department of Supply to tender for tha supply of these aircraft? If so, how did three of these aircraft come to be supplied to (he Department of Foreign Affairs? If three of these aircraft were actually supplied what would be the difficulty in supplying the remaining four? The Minister has said that no request was made. I want an explanation as to how these aircraft came to be supplied. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs issued a Press statement in which he indicated that the Department of Foreign Affairs had elected to buy 11 aircraft, six of which were to be purchased from a com.pany named Jetair Australia Ltd. 1 made it perfectly clear yesterday that the Department of Supply would come into the matter only after a decision had been taken as it was the department which was responsible for completing the transaction. As I said yesterday and I repeat today, if and when the transaction is completed I will give the details of it to the Senate. 
It will not be very long. That is the answer to the first part of  Senator Keeffe's  question. The second part of it, as I recall, was in relation to whether the 6 aircraft which were being purchased from Jetair were in fact aircraft which had been disposed of by the Government to Jetair. I said that I did not know but I would seek to find out. I have sought to find out and I have been able to glean the following information so far: No aircraft which were originally owned by the Royal Australian Air Force were sold by the Commonwealth Government to Jetair. 1 was fairly certain that this was right. But  Senator Keeffe's  question went beyond that in that he said it could well be that these aircraft were involved in some transaction before then. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes. I sought to obtain this information. Just at the commencement of question time I was given by my Department some additional information which I think is reasonably accurate. Two of the six aircraft subsequently acquired by Jetair were sold by my Department to Stanair (US). They were from the RAAF. The sale to Stanair was made hi June 1968. 
Were they DC3s? 
-I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as representative of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. My question relates to the answer he gave to a question a few moments ago. I ask: Were tenders called by the Department of Foreign Affairs for the supply of these aircraft? If so, why was a tender or an offer by a Melbourne firm overlooked, although it was considerably lower than the price paid? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice:  (.1) Did the Queensland Cabinet on the submission of the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  grant permission to graziers to slaughter droughtaffected sheep for dog food. (2)Has permission been granted to use kangaroo slaughtering facilities for this purpose which are not subject to stringent health supervision. 
Does the lack of stringent health supervision, by completing the chain of infection from sheep to dog to human, greatly facilitate the spread of the dreadful, insidious disease hydatids; if so, will the Minister take urgent steps to investigate and report on this possibility. 
Yes. 
In relation to (2) and (3), the Department of Health. Queensland, has advised that: 
Instructions for slaughtering drought affected sheep for pet food are the same as for kangeroos. The animals are slaughtered, bled, eviscerated, and stored in chilling boxes on the properties. Thecascasses are transported in the chilling boxes to kangaroo depots where they are skinned and boned out or skinned and distributed to pet food shops who do their own boning out. No offal is sent to the kangaroo depots or the pet food shops. 
The Department considers that, since sheep offal is the principal agent through which dogs are infected with hydatids and since no offal is permitted to reach dogs through pet food shops, the slaughtering of sheep for dog food as at present practised in Queensland should not facilitate the spread of hydatids. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate any information on the Jetair transaction with the Foreign Affairs Department which may remove the necessity for further questions on this matter? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. How can a government department purchase by private treaty goods to the value of $250,000. for example, the 6 DC3 aircraft purchased by the Department of Foreign Affairs from Jetair Australia Ltd? Am I mistaken in my belief that such a purchase by a Government department should have been by tender? If I am not mistaken, what action will be taken to void the. contact and enable others, including the Department of Supply, to submit an offer? 
I ask the honourable senator to put his question on notice. 1 do think there is any question of voiding the contract. I will have the details of the question examined. 
Will the Leader of the Government explain the conflicting reports from Vietnam on Australian civil aid programmes and the misleading statements by the Minister for Defence? Has the futility of programmes which are not acceptable and in most cases are resented by the local population finally become apparent? Does this lead the Government to an inevitable conclusion as to the hopelessness of our continuing involvement in Vietnam and can we expect a complete withdrawal? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThis, too, is a fairly wide question. I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition posed a question on this matter in the other place yesterday, to which the Minister for Defence gave a reply, lt would be inappropriate and very unwise for me to start assuming things from the Minister's reply. However, the Minister did make it abundantly clear that Australia would continue to give civil aid in Vietnam. I commend yesterday's daily Hansard of the other place to the honourable senator so that he may read with a precision which obviously 1 could not give what the Minister said in response to the question. 
Can the Minister representing the Postmaster-General ascertain from the Australian Broadcasting Commission why it refused to show on Australian television a highly praised British production on Vietnam called 'The Quiet Mutiny'? Is it not a fact that one of Australia's leading television critics, Phillip Adams, described the rejection by the ABC of this film as a scandal? Was the film rejected because it showed clearly the disillusionment and the cynicism of a great number of American troops who do not believe in the war? Is this just a part of the broad policy of Australian television channels to keep programmes on Vietnam to a minimum so that Australian viewers remain apathetic about our role on this shameful battlefield? 
Does the Minister representing the Attorney-General recall that one of the first questions I asked in this place concerned secular marriages? I draw the Minister's attention to Statutory Rules No. 6 of 1971. AmI to understand from these regulations that officiating at secular marriages is to be facilitated so that it will be possible in the future for people to be married more easily outside the normal hours? 
The new representative on the Government side of the Senate,  Senator Hannan,  made certain comments that induced me to take part in this debate. For that he has to bear the responsibility and apologise to the members of his party who from time to time question my right to speak. 
That is right. During his contribution, which I found most interesting, he mentioned the series of Labor radio stations that operate in Australia - 5 in all - and indicated that they had the opportunity to broadcast on behalf of the Australian Labor Party the policies of that Party. But in reality that is not so. In reality the radio stations are forced, in effect, to follow the pattern of other radio stations and to operate as purely business concerns, controlled in some way by the people who advertise. 
I can remember one instance in which 4KQ in Brisbane put certain views forward rather strongly on its political programme. Incidentally, that programme is broadcast for only half an hour fairly late on a Sunday night and is possibly the only political programme, based on Labor policy that is broadcast by the station. At that time the station spoke out very strongly against the very high profit that General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd had made in that year. As a result of that. GMH decided that it would not sign a further contract with 4KQ. So, that station found, as all Labor stations find, that it had to conform. If they want to exist, if they want to maintain their operations and if they do not want to go completely out of existence they must con form to the general pattern of broadcasting what is virtually entertainment, with a minimum of political views being broadcast from time to time. 
Labor radio stations throughout Australia broadcast the policy of the Party. We are not ashamed of it. Unfortunately, they cannot exist without payments for advertising. For that reason their operations follow the same pattern as those of other radio stations. In fact, it is very hard to distinguish a Labor radio station from an ordinary commercial radio station, lt is true that the constitution and articles which brought these radio stations into operation provide that their profits should pass into the general funds of the ALP for research purposes. I think it is reasonable that if a Party runs a radio station any profits made should go to that Party so that it can research its material. Surely there is no argument about that. 
But the honourable senator made quite a point of this. If the 5 Labor radio stations each made a profit of $200,000-- 
Let us take that for granted. If the 5 Labor stations were each" to make a profit of $200,000 they would earn a profit of Sim for the Party. There are 5 Labor radio stations, but there are 114 other radio stations in Australia which make an annual profit of about S8m. There are 42 commercial television stations operating in Australia earning annual profits of about $15m. Surely the honourable senator cannot reasonably object to the right of the Labor radio stations to make a profit. That profit reflects their efficiency. Each of those stations is conducted efficiently. In fact, 4KQ Brisbane received the lop rating. I had hoped that  Senator Hannan  would reveal the figures relating to the operations of 4KQ, for my own edification. 1 have not been able to obtain them, even though T am a member of the Australian Labor Party. 
Not for 4KQ. The honourable senator indicated that he took his figures from the 'Financial Review'. He said that he was not entitled to reveal any confidential information received when he was a member of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The Board says that the figures given to it are received in confidence and are used only for licensing purposes. That is fair enough. But the "Financial Review' managed to get some figures which the honourable senator used and so by-passed the requirements which limited his contribution to this debate. 
I have a fair idea of his identity.  Senator Hannan  early in his speech made the interesting statement that if a radio station broadcasts election material for one Party it is required to give equal time to anybody else who requests it. My reading of the Act suggests that all radio stations which broadcast election material must give reasonable time to the other parties represented in the House. Apparently the interpretation of 'reasonable time' is equal time. I cannot quite see that. For the sake of this argument let us say that it is equal time. The ALP faced a very embarrassing situation in Queensland because it broadcast over 4KQ at prime broadcasting time, to the disgust of our supporters, Australian Democratic Labor Party propaganda to this effect: 'Put Vince Gair back, the man you can trust.' The uproar caused in ALP circles in Queensland was considerable. 
It was suggested to the management of 4KQ that it might allocate reasonable time to the DLP at a less popular time during the day. What will happen when next the DLP applies to Labor station 4KQ in Brisbane for broadcasting time remains to be seen, lt will be seen then at what time DLP propaganda will be broadcast. We question whether a radio station is obliged to broadcast what it considers to be offensive material. No station can be forced to broadcast material it believes to be offensive to its listeners. The DLP propaganda to which I have referred was offensive to a large range of listeners but it could not be argued that it was offensive to all listeners. Therefore the DLP advertisements were broadcast in the manner I have indicated. What is right for one station should be right for other stations. I have here a letter addressed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to  Mr T.  J. Burns, Queensland Secretary of the Australian Labor Party. It states: 
have received your letter of 20th January 1971 concerning a decision of station 4BH not to accept certain political material for broadcasting on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. 
It is clear that one station in Brisbane refused to accept advertising from the Australian Labor Party, but the Labor station was required to accept advertising from the Democratic Labor Party. I think a radio station has the right to make a decision on what it will broadcast, just as a newspaper has the right to decide which material it will accept for publication. The sooner the Broadcasting and Television Act is amended to provide that right, the better it will bc. Quite a number of matters relating to the operation of radio stations concern us in Queensland. Just before  Senator Hannan  sat down he mentioned that broadcasting stations should be given protection against actions for defamation. If that were so, perhaps they would not be allowed to continue their open line programmes which almost always contain some very wild statements about individuals. I have a letter here which I would like to read into the record. It was sent to  Senator Lionel  Murphy by the Queensland Secretary of the Australian Labor Party. It refers to an area which is of great concern to many people. It states: 
As the Senate is debating an amendment to the Broadcasting Control Act it might be possible for you and your senators to raise the question of the open line programmes, and the question of broadcasting station 4BH in Brisbane. 
The letter goes on to refer to ratbags, an expression I do not use. It continues: 
Firstly, on open line, the DLP and a few ratbag groups in Queensland use these programmes rather successfully. The stations that are sympathetic to these groups allow spokesmen from the Party to go on under the name of Josie' 'Daisy', etc., and they attack the Labor Party and the trade unions hour after hour, day after day. Speakers who phone to defend the trade unions or the Labor Party are cut off, and under the delay system, the announcer has complete control over what is said. It has been known in Brisbane for deliberate lies and blatant untruths to be used consistently on these programmes. When you contact the station in relation to these matters they refuse to even supply a transcript or a copy of the Jape - e.g.. I attach a photostat copy of correspondence from the particular station. 
In Brisbane have a woman by the name of  Mrs Gabby  Horan running an Open Line programme. She bus been a Liberal candidate and a CMO candidate for the Council. Whilst running an Open Line programme (and acting as  Chairman  of the Housewives Association) she advertises products in the paper under her recommendation, and. of course, solicits advertising from business houses for her programme. So you can imagine what sort of a fair ilea) the housewife gets. 
We have another. Greg O'Dwyer, who was a Liberal candidate against Manfred Cross, and his blasts against the Labor Party and the Unions are as vicious as one would expect from such a candidate. 
I believe there should be some protection under the Broadcasting Act to guard against the vicious libels th.it are pui forward on these programmes. The stations should bc responsible for the material they allow people to broadcast. If they are not prepared to accept the responsibility they should close down the Open Line programmes. 
With that I agree. 
What was that? 
If that was the case- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  -  Senator Georges,  1 think you had belter return to the contents of the Bill. 
In fairness to  Senator Little  I would say that he had the right to lake action against that station for the words used. 
That supports the case I am making at present. 
I did not say that the authorities should close down 3KZ, 4KQ, 4BH or any other station. I am saying that these Open Line' programmes by which unidentified people can ring up a station and broadcast over a wide area these very savage, libellous and defamatory comments should not be permitted. The 'Open Line' programmes are wide open for the making of defamatory statements. The radio stations accept no responsibility. If honourable senators like to listen to some of the stationS in Brisbane they will hear evidence time after time of plants by certain political parties aimed at embarrassing another political party. 
For the benefit of  Senator Marriott,  my purpose here is to embarrass the Government as often as possible. My task is made easy from time to time on a variety of subjects and on a variety of attitudes. This Government merely exists, as I have said from time to time, not because of its virtues or the strength of its policies but .because of the support that it receives at every election from the Democratic Labor Party although it sneers at thai Parly from lime to time. 
I would not accept the support of the Democratic Labor Party even if it was given to me. If it was offered I would refuse it if I could. In any case, that is purely hypothetical. It is perfectly obvious that the Government accepts the support of the Democratic Labor Party on every occasion. 
Who wants lo imagine that the support for the Liberal Party in New South Wales would be so weak that our primaries would pass on to the Democratic Labor Party and increase its numbers in this place? The honourable senator should search out the facts. Excuse me,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  but I must make this point: If our preferences had been given to the Australia Party in New South Wales the result of that election would have been exactly the same. But I ask: Why complain? The Government needs the support of the Democratic Labor Party. It was obvious tonight when several votes were taken. The Government got the support of the Democratic Labor Party. It is perfectly obvious also that the Government carries out the demands of the Democratic Labor Party. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! Having made that explanation,  Senator Georges,  I think you should return to the Bill. 
The point made by the author of this letter is that stations should be responsible for the material they allow people to broadcast. If they are not prepared to accept this responsibility they should close down these shows.I was not suggesting, as  Senator Greenwood  tried to insinuate, that the stations should be closed down; I was saying that the 'Open Line' programmes should be discontinued, and that is fair enough. These programmes have descended to the lowest of all levels. This letter continues: 
In relationto Station 4BH, this Station was commenced by a man named Chandler, one of the founders of the Liberal Party in Queensland and a former Lord Mayor of Brisbane for twelve years. 
This station refused to broadcast Labor Party propaganda. I am not suggesting that it should not be permitted to do this, but why force the Labor Party station to accept Democratic Labor Party propaganda? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, if I am not allowed to continue my remarksI will be accused of trying to keep this debate going until the Senate adjourns. I am not stonewalling, but that will be suggested. I have never been accused of doing that before and I would not like to have to withstand that charge tonight. I want to proceed because I think this letter should be placed on record in its entirety. The author continued: 
The present Postmaster-General was a Director of this Station. When he was defeated in 1961 he returned to the Directorship, and when he won his Seat back in 1963 he resigned as a Director. I think he is probably still closely connected with the Station. The Manager of 4BH is a-- 
The author here uses a term whichI will not use. He states that the Minister is something 'of the first order' and continues: 
. viciously anti/Labor, and I attach copies of correspondence in relation to the current fight with them which is self explanatory. 
I have other letters which have been given to me. I seek leave to incorporate them in Hansard rather than read through the whole file. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Leave is not granted. 
 I appreciate that refusal. I have a letter addressed to  Mr J.  A. McNamara, Secretary, Australian Broadcasting Control Board, 373 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000. 
It  is dated 20th January 1971. It states: 
Dear  Mr McNamara, 
Thank you for your letter of 30th December referring to my previous correspondence of 17th November and 14th December. 1970, on Radio Station 4BH, Brisbane. 
WhilstI realise the Broadcasting Control Board apparently has little interest in enforcing these regulations,I am bitterly disappointed at your Board's reply to whatI believe was a deliberate attempt by a Station to refuse political matter because of the Management's political bias. 
Your Board has accepted the Manager's word that he refused our advertising because the commercials were in bad taste and could, in fact, be libellous. As legal advice was obtained that this was not so, his argument cannot stand up. 
The argument becomes weaker when every other Station accepts the advertisements even with 4BH's manager's biassed report attached. 
It would appear to me that your decision means that any Station Manger can now say that political advertising  is  either libellous or in bad taste, in his opinion, and refuse to accept them. Under these circumstances we could scrap the Act and allow Managements to determine the political view of this country. 
I, for one, and my Party are not preparedto accept such a decision. 
I ask your Board to reconsider, as this is a most important matter of principle and a matter that cannot be decided in such an off-hand way. 
Yours faithfully, 
J. Burns, Secretary 
I hope  Senator Greenwood  will excuse me for reading this file from the front to the back. I am certain we can get the progression of the material in this way. 1 have a letter here from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board dated 30th December 1970. lt states: 
Dear  Sir, 
I refer to your letters of 17th November 1970 and 14th December 1970, concerning a decision of station 4BH not to accept certain political material for broadcasting on behalf of the Australian Labor Parly. 
The Hoard has consulted the Manager of station 4BH on your complaint. The Manager has submitted the following explanation of the incident: 
On the Tuesday, prior to the final Wednesday on which we were allowed to broadcast political matter, we received an additional booking for the ALP. Recorded copy was submitted to (his station for Federation approval. I am currently Queensland State Chairman of the Federation of Commercial Broadcasters, and the staff executive to whom I have entrusted the job of approving recordings on behalf of the Federation brought the commercials to my attention. He was concerned because he felt these particular commercials were in bad taste and could, in fact, be libellous. My decision as Chairman of FAC!) was to affix the Federation Stamp to the recording, but in addition, I sent a note for the attention of Station Managers suggesting that they should carefully examine the disc because, although the commercials were recorded in accordance with Federation standards as to time and wordage. I felt thai individual Managers should make then own decision whether they should be broadcast. My own decision was that we would not broadcast the commercials in the form presented to us, and we advised the Agency accordingly. The Agency contacted me and 1 suggested a slight revision, which was nol acceptable lo them lt is of interest to note that the suggestion I made, or words to that effect, were used in the press advertisement which appeared the ner day on behalf of the ALP. At no stage did we refuse lo accept a booking on behalf of the ALP, but I considered it my duty as Stale Chairman to question the suitability of the copy. If we had been supplied with acceptable copy, obviously we would have been more than happy to broadcast the scheduled commercials. In the absence of acceptable copy, we had no alternative but lo cross the announcement.; ofl' our schedule. 
Incidentally, the firm was Garnsey. Greene &amp; Clemenger. The honourable senator is not questioning their standards, is he? 
What firm does the honourable senator employ in Melbourne? 
The letter continues: 
The General Manager's letter explains the circumstances referred to in your letter of 14th December 1970. that the material although broadcast by other stations was not accepted for broadcasting by 4BH. lt also explains the contact which the Manager of 4BH had wilh other stations in the matter. 
The Board notes your view that the broadcasting of the material by other stations tended to suggest that questions of libel or bad taste did not arise. However, the decision on such aspects must be a personal one for each Manager, lt docs not appear thai there was any political discrimination in view of the acceptance by 4BH of other advertising for the Party and the offer made in the particular case lo broadcast amended copy. lt appears to the Board that the Manager of 4BH acted within his perogatives and thai there would not be justification for any action by Hie Board. 
In future the advice I would give to radio station 4KQ is that when the Australian Democratic Labor Party submits any advertising it is for the manager to determine that he considers it libellous. In that situation the Australian Broadcasting Control Board would support the management of 4KQ in refusing the commercial. From my point of view and the point of view of most members of the Australian Labor Party the DLP commercials have been, perhaps, in bad taste and libellous. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board has laid down the guidelines for radio stations when they are given political matter which they do not wish to broadcast. They only have to say that they consider the commercials to be libellous and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board will accept that decision by the station. This is convenient for us. The other letters merely lead up lo the letters from which I have quoted. In fairness to the Senate 1 shall take no further time except to reiterate the point I made earlier. In  the  past the Australian Labor Party has been able to receive the benefit of 5 licences. Throughout the country the interests which support the Government have been able to obtain both television and radio licences which  have enabled them to broadcast in the interests of the Government Parties to such an extent that the Australian Labor Party has had difficulty in matching those efforts. It is practically impossible through 5 stations to match the efforts of 114 stations. 
The answer to that question is fairly clear. Not only is the honourable senator not deserving of any but, as  Senator Cant  has said, the honourable senator's Party obviously does not need them because money flowed into the funds of the DLP in quite a considerable quantity. If I were one of the great vested interests in this country which was determined not to see the Australian Labor Party in power and I were faced with the decision of where to make a donation to a political party prior to the Senate election I would not make it to the Australian Country Party because it was so discredited. I would not make it to the Liberal Party- 
Does the honourable senator question the fact that the number of votes the Australian Country Party received shows that the Party is discredited? They have been slipping away substantially. Many of its supporters in the country areas are now supporting the bogus organisation called the League of Rights. 
As I said. I would not give the donation to the Australian Country Party. I certainly would not give it to the Liberal Party but I would give it to the Party which would give me the greatest political dividend and that would be the Australian Democratic Labor Party. It has been stated that in Queensland the DLP paid $17,000 to one television station. It would be interesting to find out whether the Commonwealth Electoral Act were contravened in some way. I am told that a similar effective programme was launched in Victoria in support of  Senator McManus.  Let us face the situation. Whether it be the great medical benefit funds, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, the great mining industries or the manipulators on the share market, if they are seeking to obtain a return for their money in this instance they should donate to the DLP. Of course the result would be to their advantage because they would keep the Australian Labor Party in opposition for as long as they possibly could. Do not let anyone in the Liberal Party consider that it . came out of the last election or the previous election with any credit. They should not expect to come out of the election which is likely to be held next year with any credit. It is obvious that the Acts and regulations which control the television and radio broadcasting stations in Australia are in need of review. I trust that in the near future close scrutiny will be given to these Acts and that they will be amended and improved. 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a question concerning further irregularities in the operations of Jetair Australia Ltd. Did this company operate regular scheduled passenger and freight services in accordance with a published timetable? Was this company the holder of an airline- licence issued by the Director-General of Civil Aviation? If so. why were the pilots who were employed by the company not in possession of an airline transport pilot's licence but instead flew aircraft with a licence of a lower status? If the company did not hold an airline licence, did it hold a charter licence? If so. how was it able to operate scheduled passenger and freight services when a term of such a licence prohibits the connecting of any 2 traffic points in a network in excess of 2 services in any one month? 
1 direct another question to (he Minister for Civil Aviation. How did he infer from my previous question that 1 was critical of the Department of Civil Aviation? I assure him that the criticism is directed against those members of the Liberal Party who are friends of Jetair Australia Ltd and are responsible for the preferential treatment given to it. 1 ask the Minister to stop slipping around questions about Jetair Australia Ltd and to expedite the answers. 
1 address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, ls it a fact that there continues to be a serious shortage of teachers in Canberra schools? Why is it that despite qualified persons being available, not one is being employed? ls the austerity, campaign being extended to this area and, if so, how can it be justified? 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate, to whom [ direct my question, by now must be aware that the hours for attendance at the National Library have been reduced. Is this an austerity measure? Can the Minister explain and justify reduced availability of a facility which is so vital to the advancement of knowledge? Are we to take it that the Government intends to prune expenditure in the area of education and so depress the education system further? Would it not be to great advantage to curb the speculators and profiteers, or is the Government not prepared to lose their support? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIgnoring the last reference in the honourable senator's question, I understand that the National Library is within the responsibility of the Presiding Officer. I will have to find out where the power for decision lies in respect of the National Library and then obtain a reply for the honourable senator. 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer agree that a programme for economies which operates at the level of turning out lights, tightening taps and reducing community services can only lead to a psychology of economic depression and a trend that may be irreversible? Will he ask the Treasurer to consult with the Prime Minister and to persuade him to direct his measures to solving the economic problems of this country at a much higher level? 
Decisions by some bodies - State, statutory or governmental - to do certain things are decisions which, no doubt, they take in good faith and good judgment. I do not think that we in the national Parliament should reach the stage where wc make a judgment for them as to how they can best economise or where they can best economise in their particular and narrowed field of administration. 1 acknowledge the point about psychology which the honourable senator makes, but 1 really do not think any approach by me to the Prime Minister is warranted in response lo the honourable senator's question: 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate explain the delay in the tabling of the report of the Joint Committee on the Crown of Thorns Starfish? Is he aware that this is the third committee to investigate the problem, and that in spite of the investigations, the plague continues unchecked? Will he assure the Senate that he will take action to sec that the Committee's report is expedited? 
L am not sure from the honourable senator's question whether the Committee has in fact produced its report and he is now asking abou! an hiatus between its production and its tabling, or whether the Committee has not yet completed its report. I will find out the facts and acquaint  Senator Georges  of the position. 
by leave - 1 am certainly not satisfied with the statement which was made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  on the sale of aircraft of Jetair Australia Ltd to the Commonwealth Government. When the Leader of the Government began to read his statement I thought he had perhaps made a mistake in the year he read out because he began by referring to the year 1969. However, he was correct. It seems to me to be  very strange that negotiations which commenced in 1969 to assist Nepal and Laos should take almost 2 years to reach a decision, especially if these aircraft were required urgently. If the matter was so urgent I should imagine that these aircraft could have been obtained well within 2 years. 
Let us have a look at what the Leader of the Government said. In the early part of his statement he said: 
Following negotiations between the departments of Foreign Affairs and Supply five of these aircraft were bought for a total of $60,000. Two were purchased on 21st November 1969 and three on 15th April 1970. 
Two of these aircraft were purchased in November 1969. The request was first made early in 1969. There did not seem to be any urgency about supplying them then, but suddently there was an urgent requirement to supply to Cambodia aircraft which were available for purchase from Jetair Australia Ltd. In fact, so urgent did the requirement become that certain procedures were circumvented. The Government went steadily about the matter at the beginning and took almost 2 years to reach a decision and then, because Jetair suddenly became defunct and its aircraft became available for purchase, the matter was expedited to such an extent that tenders were not called 
I am not satisfied with the details which were given in the statement about the Department of Supply being asked to proceed with preparing the formal contracts and to make inquiries to ascertain whether other suitable aircraft were available. It would be interesting to find out what those inquiries were, how widespread they were and whether any advertising was carried out. The Leader of the Government went on to say that the Department of Supply's inquiries revealed that other suitable aircraft were not available and that the  Chairman  of the Contracts Board therefore issued a certificate that it was impractical and inexpedient to call tenders. I find this to be particularly unusual. It fits into the pattern of a sudden urgency to purchase aircraft from Jetair. Tn certain questions I have asked I have implied that there has been malpractice. I will continue to ask questions and to seek out information on this subject. I am of the opinion that the Department suited its requirements to the specifications of the Jetair aircraft. 
The Department of Foreign Affairs. It suited its requirements to the specifications of the aircraft of Jetair. For this reason I think it is vital that the whole matter should be investigated thoroughly. I am pleased that the Australian Labor Party will seek to adjourn the debate to a later date. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government been drawn to suggestions that the report of the committee on the crown of thorns starfish plague is to be shelved? Does the Minister recall that I asked a question 2 weeks ago concerning the report of the joint committee which was set up by the Commonwealth and the State of Queensland to investigate the problem further? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In spite of the fact that what I said in my previous question may be a reflection on an overseas individual or an overseas airline, does he not consider the safety of Australian citizens to be sufficient cause to take immediate action to ensure that inexperienced personnel employed by overseas airlines do not land at any Australian airport? 
I direct another question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. While we are waiting for the report on the collision at Mascot Airport, what is being done to see that inexperienced pilots from overseas do not land aircraft at this or any other Australian airport? 
 I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. When can we expect a report of the inquiry into the recent collision at the Mascot Airport between a Canadian Pacific airliner and a Trans-Australia Airlines airliner? Why is there a delay in presenting the report, especially since rumours are circulating alleging a serious breach of regulations by the overseas airliner? 
For our enlightenment will the Minister for Civil Aviation inform the Senate of the safety requirements imposed on the pilots of overseas airlines operating in Australia? 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Jetair Australia Ltd operate regular scheduled passenger and freight services in accordance with a published timetable. 
Did the Company hold an airline licence issued by the Director-General of Civil Aviation; if so, why did the Company's pilots not hold an airline transport pilot's licence but instead held licences of a lower status. 
If the Company did not hold an airline licence, did it hold a charter licence; if so, how was it able to operate scheduled passenger and freight services when a charter licence prohibits the connecting of any two traffic points in a network in excess of two services in any one month. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What has been the average amount of petroleum search subsidy paid per on-shore exploratory well each year since the introduction of the subsidy for (a) Australia, and (b) Queensland. 
What has been the average cost per exploratory well on which subsidy has been paid each year for (a) Australia, and (b) Queensland. 
What has been (a) the cost, and (b) the amount of subsidy for each off-shore exploratory well drilled in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What royalties (expressed in Australian currency) are paid in Jamaica per ton for (a) bauxite exported raw, (b) bauxite processed into alumina within Jamaica. 
What royalties are paid at Weipa per ton for (a) bauxite exported raw, (b) bauxite processed into alumina within Queensland. 
What royalties are expected to be paid per ton of bauxite to be mined by Tipperary Land and Exploration Co. Pty Ltd and Associated Companies south of Weipa. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
How many service stations are there in Australia. 
What is the estimated amount of engine oil drained annually from motor vehicles in. Australia. 
How much of this used engine oil is rerefined each year. 
What is the estimated amount of used engine oil disposed of as waste. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What are the total estimated coking coal reserves in leases held by Central Queensland Coal Associates. 
How much of these reserves can be extracted by open cut mining methods. 
What is the total amount of coking coal that Central Queensland Coal Associates may be permitted to export under the terms of its agreement with the Queensland Government. 
Was the Commonwealth Government aware of the size of the open cut reserves before the agreement with the Queensland Government was signed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is there a serious shortage of teachers in Canberra schools. 
Why is it that despite the fact that many qualified persons are offering themselves for employment none are being employed 
Is the austerity campaign being extended to this area; if so, how is it justified. 
asked the Minister for Civil Avition, upon notice: 
When can a report be expected on the inquiry into the recent collision at Mascot Airport between the Canadian Pacific Airlines aircraft and a Trans-Australia Airlines aircraft. 
Why is there a delay in the presentation of the report. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What are. the safety requirements to bc met by the pilots of overseas airlines operating in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the available figures at 5-yearly intervals for the percentage of national income distributed to each 10 per cent of income earners. 
No figures are available which break up national income in the way requested in this question. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What is done to ensure that overseas aircraft are not operated in Australia by inexperienced pilots. 
ls the safety of Australian citizens considered as sufficient cause for action to be taken to ensure that inexperienced flight crews employed by overseas airlines do not operate aircraft in Australia. 
I welcome the opportunity to enter this debate, especially as I see that the Minister in charge of the legislation is  Senator Greenwood  - a new Minister in this place. That brings lo mind the strange situation that forced the Government to choose a member of the legal profession as the Minister responsible for the health portfolio. I do not .doubt that the Government was considerably embarrassed in the other place, as it is termed, by the fact that in the Opposition there were 5 doctors who placed the former Minister for Health,  Dr Forbes,  under pressure. In order to avoid further discomfiture, the health portfolio was sent over to the Senate. 
 I do not doubt that  Senator Greenwood  will bring to this portfolio the tenacity and loquaciousness that he has displayed in the Senate from time to time. I often wonder whether the Government would not have done better, when choosing the new Ministry, to have done what the Athenians did quite some time ago - in fact, 2,000 or 3,000 years ago - when they were trying to find those who would lead them in government. They put all the names in the hat and drew them out. I doubt whether they would have chosen- 
No doubt they put them in a hat or a pot. Nevertheless, they drew out the names and the only person they were not prepared to choose by that means was the person in control of the water supply. In any case, using that method they would never have chosen a minister of religion to be Minister for the Navy. The Government had its problems in trying to fit into the new Ministry those who were not discredited. 
Yes. I was about to say that, in spite of what I have said. I believe that  Senator Greenwood  will endeavour to deal with his portfolio as it ought to be dealt with, namely, with some humanity. This afternoon I listened to his answer to a question on Aboriginal affairs. I hope that it represents the pattern he will follow in the future. 
I was a little surprised that in his second reading speech this afternoon he quoted some figures that seemed to indicate that the pensioners have never been better off. According to him, his figures showed that over the period since 1946 the pensioners have progressively improved their position in relation to the consumer price index. I say to him that he has chosen the wrong set of figures. He would have been much more just if he had chosen the figures that show the level of average earnings. That is a fair comparison. They would have shown that the pensioners are 25 per cent worse off than they were previously. Earnings are the true reflection of the standard of living within the community. If we look at average earnings, which include all sorts of things such as overtime and over-award payments, we find that the pensioners are not anywhere near as well off as the Minister would like us to think they are. That is reflected in the position in which many pensioners find themselves in the crowded cities of this nation. 
Let me refer to the position in which pensioners find themselves in the suburb of Brisbane that we call Spring Hill. There pensioners wander around neglected, in search of reasonabe accommodation, in search of reasonably priced goods and depressed in such a way that the young students in that area have found it necessary to establish a community aid centre. I find it most strange that in one of our affluent cities young students should find it necessary to set up a centre to which pensioners can go to receive goods at below cost price, assistance in social welfare and directions as to where they can obtain medical care. I. find this situation appalling, especially as there are in this country the means to raise the necessary finance or at least to direct or alter the direction of our expenditure in certain fields so that we can give more to social services. 1 regard this 50c increase as an affront. I find it difficult to accept. How much more difficult must it be for the pensioners to accept a 50c rise?  Mr Daly,  a renowned colleague of mine, pointed out that the increase represents merely one unit with the Totalisator Agency Board, or tote as he called it, at the Canberra races. It represents 2 units on the New South Wales TAB. In other words, the Government is not even considering that the pensioners might have a bet at the races. They have certainly not been given through the increase the cost of 2 ounces of tobacco or a packet of soap. I find it abhorrent that in an outrageously ad hoc manner the new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  suddenly decided to grant an extra 50c a week to pensioners, and that he feels so proud about it. It is outrageous that honourable senators opposite tonight should defend the increase as an humanitarian approach to the pensioner problem. Let us be fair. If 
Government supporters feel so deeply about the position of .pensioners in the community they should '. seek at least to grant to them a wage on which they can live in dignity and comfort. They should no! be forced to live in a situation of complete want. lt is of no use saying that the instances of extreme need of which I speak are isolated. A survey carried om by direction of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  indicated that about 50,000 pensioners in Australia, are living in extreme need. Why not make a full hearted and complete gesture and raise the pension to a level comparable to the basic living wage? The economy should not need a great deal of adjustment for that purpose. We could consider whether the Fills could- be done without. We could save ourselves a considerable amount of money in that direction. Perhaps we could exercise some sort of restraint in Vietnam. We could do ourselves a service internationally by withdrawing from Vietnam. We could save ourselves many' millions of dollars a year and could show our compassion by directing that expenditure away from killing, slaughter, atrocities and complete devastation of the land, lt could be directed to the pensioner's within our own shores, the people who  need-it  most. 
If we can lift the basic level al which these people live we will lift the level at which society within Australia lives. We are judged by the way we treat our older citizens. I repeat that it is; an affront to conscience that pensioners should be granted a miserable increase of 50c a week. It is a pittance. The approch of the Labor Party in the field of social services is sensible and seeks to go to the root of the problem. We seek, to institute a superannuation programme under which everyone would pay according to his ability to pay and those in need would receive according to their need. These may sound like platitudes but the Government will face continual criticism on this point. Since I have been in the Senate, pension increases of $1 a week and 50c a week have been granted. Each time members of the Opposition have indicated exactly what the increase means to pensioners - perhaps an extra item on the grocery order at the end of the week. Surely as a nation we are affluent enough to be able to afford more appropriate increases for our pensioners. We could do so if the Government would place a turnover tax on the rogues who seek to manipulate the stock market to their own advantage, as has been evidenced of late, so that millions of dollars change hands. Some people are enriched but many are impoverished. Surely some income could be derived by the Government from that area and diverted to the field of social services.  Senator Greenwood  is the new Minister who represents in the Senate the Minister for Social Services. I charge him with the responsibility to take back to his Party room the desire of the Senate that justice be given to pensioners. This small handout of 50c a week as an insult to his Party, the Senate and the nation itself. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister in charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What has been  (a) the  maximum number, and (b) the minimum number of Aborigines employed by Comalco at Weipa each year since mining operations began? 
What has been the average gross  pay of  (a) Aborigine workers, and (b) white workers  each year? 
Much as I would like to add to the saga of the 3 dots, I wish to speak on another matter. I direct the attention of the Senate to page 901 of Hansard and the speech by  Senator Cavanagh.  He asked for leave to have a document incorporated in Hansard. He completed his speech by saying: 'If leave is not given I shall read it'. It was my intention to hear that document read in the Senate. So, when  Senator Cavanagh  said: 'If leave is not given I shall read it', and the  Deputy President  asked: Is leave granted?', I said: "No.' And there the matter ended for the night. 
I find that the material that was supposed to be incorporated in Hansard was not incorporated. Since it is of considerable importance to what  Senator Cavanagh  had to say, I propose to read the introduction and then to seek leave to have the remainder incorporated in Hansard. I will give honourable senators an indication of the type of material I propose to seek to have incorporated in Hansard. The letter is addressed to  Senator Cavanagh  and it reads: 
I heard on the radio your speech in the Senate on 7th April on the subject of conscientious objection to compulsory training to kilt our fellow men, women and children. 
You were supported by Senators O'Byrne and Turnbull, and criticised- 
1 shall read the first paragraph and then 1 shall seek leave. The document continues: 
You were supported by Senators O'Byrne and Turnbull and criticised as 'quasi-blasphemous' by  Senator Hannan.  Your speech was one of reason, humanity and Christianity and deserves support, so 1 hope you will give a copy of this to the Senators named above. lt is refreshing to hear Christian Conscience upheld publicly as you did in your speech. 
The writer refers to  Senator Cavanagh.  The rest of the letter quotes various section of the Gospel of St Luke, lt is in considerable detail, lt is a document which ought to be incorporated in Hansard and I do that with the concurrence of honourable senators. 

 Senator Hannan said he knew St Luke's gospel as well or better than you and he startled me bv quoting from St Luke that Christ said 'If you have a coat sell it and buy a sword'. (Ch. 22.36) That is so contrary to the whole teaching of the gospels that it should be pointed out that Christ was speaking to his disciples who would 'deny' him and forsake him at his trial and passion as be had just told them. It was advice to the weak as was his previous advice to 'the unjust steward' who made 'friends of the mammon of iniquity' as do 'the children of this world' when they do not act as 'the children of light". 
But  Senator Hannan  should note that Chapter 22 of St Luke continues: 
"They said: Lord, here are two swords. And he said to them it is enough . . . 
And they said to him: 
Lord shall we strike with the sword 
And one of them struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear 
But Jesus . . . touched his ear and healed htm.' 
St Matthew records: Ch. 27.52 'Then Jesus said to him: Put up thy sword: for all that take the sword shall perish by the sword.' 
St Luke records: Ch. 6.29 'And him that taketh away from thee thy cloak, forbid not to take thy coat also.' 
As for being 'blasphemous' in identifying man's weak and erring human nature with Christ, that is just what we are told to do by Christ himself: 
St Luke Ch.  9  records: 
'And he said to all: If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. 
For he that shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him the Son of man shall be ashamed when he shall come in his majesty and that of his Father and of the holy angels.' 
St Paul, a man as we all are, leaves us in no doubt that we should identify our souls with Christ, our Redeemer. Thus says St Paul to the Galatians: 
'For I, through the law, am dead to the law, that I may live to God: with Christ I am nailed to the Cross. 
And I live, now not I: but Christ liveth in me.' 
For a notable example of a Christian man who could not practise the use of sword or bayonet or do any violence to his fellow men, we have Ronald Knox. His life has been widely published as written by the English writer Evelyn Waugh. Ronald Knox, was a member of the Church of England and the son of a minister of that Church. He was Captain of Eton School although he never played any games. In the first World War he went as a stretcher-bearer to the Front lines because he could not bear to use an offensive weapon. He translated the Bible and was chaplain to the Roman Catholic students at Oxford University where I met him, a fine figure of a man, a most popular Christian. 
As for myself I also could not be trained to use violence to my fellow men and could not be trained to kill in the Army. When the second World War came, I at once volunteered and joined the Navy which 'fights ships not men' and went straight to the protection of convoys in the Battle of the Atlantic as an Anti-Submarine Officer and was the first Australian to be First Lieutenant of a corvette in that Cruel Sea. 
I was top of the Royal Navy Radar School in England and first place 'with greatest credit' in the United States Coastguard School of Radio Navigation, and introduced and taught Radio Navigation to the Australian Navy. 
Like St Paul I "glory", to use his word, in contending with infirmities and dangers and difficulties, as he tells us at length that he did and would have vis do. In witness of this 1 attach hereto a copy of my article 'Ski ing through Blizzards for 12 Days', and a copy of articles from the Sydney Morning Herald of September 8, 1936, and September 1, 1937. Also 1 attach six pages of my article describing how I gave Tasmania its micro-wave radio link with the mainland in spite of tremendous difficulties. 
Yet I would hate to be drawn by a marble in the lottery of death at the age of 20. I would regard it as tyranny and slavery. 
Certainly the Christian and other human people of Vietnam need our support against Communist terror and oppression. But it should be the support of those who volunteer for it. My neighbour has a son in the permanent Army, and as a young Lieutenant that son has been in Vietnam and severely wounded, he says he volunteers to go back there, for he had experience of a village of 100 people who were kept alive and safe from massacre by the Communists only by the Australian Army, and he would again offer himself to save South Vietnamese from terror and certain violent death. 
At a time when Australia was rattling the sabre and was considering going to war with Indonesia over West New Guinea I made a strong bid for peace and friendship with Indonesia as shown by the attached article from the Melbourne Herald of January 9, 1962. 
Just as Indonesia needs our help, South Vietnam needs it far more, and Christian charity demands that we give it. But we should not give it by forcing some only of our immature youths to kill and do violence to their fellow men. 
Let those who counsel meeting violence with violence go themselves to do it. It is wrong and a tyranny and against Christian charity to gaol young men who refuse to join the lottery of death and violence. It is in line with the Governor who sought to imprison St Paul who identified himself not just with Christ, but with 'Christ nailed to the Cross'. 
Yours sincerely, 
I desire the leave of the Senate to incorporate an article in Hansard. The article is called 'The War Machine A Washington analyst takes a pragmatic view of the awesome Pentagon juggernaut as the lamentable keystone of United States economic wellbeing'. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order!  Senator Georges,  arc you seeking leave to incorporate certain material in Hansard? 
Yes. But in fairness to the SenateI will explain what the article is about, who the author is, what the article happens to be and from what periodical it comes. 
It is printed on only one side of each page and some pages are only half pages. There would be 6 or 7 pages of this material. The article concerns the complex military and industrial economy of the United States of America. As we are all aware that our economy is not insensitive to the state of the American economy, it is proper for honourable senators to be aware of the character of that economy. That is one reason for wishing to have the article incorporated in Hansard. The other reason is that it is written by Robert Sherrill and it comes from a magazine called 'Playboy'. This magazine is not banned in any Australian State except Queensland. This notable economic article is not available to the citizens of Queensland and that is a second reason why I would like it incorporated in Hansard. The people of Queensland in that way could have access to the article and could use it. At present that is not the case. I therefore seek leave to have this article incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Is leave granted? 
Did I hear correctly? Is leave not granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - There being an objection, leave is not granted. 
I was rather confused. I believe that the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  refused leave. I think you will recall,  Sir, that  earlier we extended the facility of allowing the incorporation in Hansard of a second reading speech of considerable length. We also allowed the Minister to use a new method of tabling an important document of considerable length so that it would not be necessary to read that document. In other words we were out to save time. I have been refused leave to incorporate in Hansard an article which I believe ought to be incorporated. 
For  Senator Wright's  information I inform the Senate that I approached the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and said that I would be seeking leave to incorporate this article in Hansard.  Senator Wright  may recall that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson came across to me and I showed him the article. 
The reason for refusal that is now advanced is not the reason given by  Senator Wright. Senator Byrne  did not deny me the right. I was fair about this matter.  Senator Wright  objected to the incorporation of this article, but not for the reason given by  Senator Byrne.  I will not read this article into the record at this stage. I will take the opportunity to make  Senator Wright  familiar with the article by giving him a copy of it. I will also give a copy to  Senator Byrne.  At a later stage I shall seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. If I am again refused leave I shall proceed to read the article into the record, a procedure which will be to the general inconvenience of the Senate. Honourable senators know me well. I am not one to inconvenience the Senate at a late hour. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the fact that the Minister informed  Senator Wriedt  yesterday that the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal -was set up to deal with disputes over pay and general conditions of work which I presume are covered by the terms 'industrial matters' and 'industrial questions' as denned in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, I ask the Minister the following questions: Does any aspect of the present dispute between Qantas Airways Ltd and the Australian Federation of Air Pilots cover any matter associated with the safety of aircraft operations? If the present dispute is only over industrial matters and general conditions of employment, why has the dispute not been referred to the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal, which was established for the specific purpose of mediating in such disputes? If the DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation was empowered to mediate in disputes which affect the safety of aircraft operations, why was the tribunal established in the first place? Under what section of the legislation is the Director-General empowered to mediate in matters which have to do with general conditions of employment? 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs I point out to him that the 'Sunday Review' of 25th April reported Vice-Premier Ky of South Vietnam as saying that his country was like a sinking ship, that the Laos invasion had been a. farce, and that a political solution should be sought to end the war. Will the Minister check the truth of that report? If he finds it to be accurate, will the Government accept the opinion of this prominent ally and supporter of Australia's official policy in Vietnam and assist in finding a political solution by withdrawing our troops from South Vietnam forthwith? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Housing aware that increasing numbers of young Australians are meeting extreme difficulty in obtaining housing finance? Does he know that they have been forced to obtain finance at excessive and  crippling  rates of  interest from finance corporations, some of which are closely linked with the very banks which are refusing such finance at normal housing interest rates? Will the Government take action to alleviate this position? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. When in the name of sanity will the Government take notice of the appalling and continuing revelation of atrocities in Indo-China and exercise some of the humanity which Government members claim to possess? Why does not the Government face its conscience and take some international initiative through the United' Nations to bring the war to an end? 
This is a question loaded with inferences derogatory,I think, to the Government.I think the simple thing to do is to put the question on notice. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the' Senate, refers to his answer to my previous question. How can an appeal to the conscience of the Government be claimed to be derogatory? Does he imply that' the Government has no con science in the matter referred, namely, the Indo-Chinese war? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAgain there is an implication in the honourable senator's question. I ask him to put it on the notice paper. 
As I was absent last evening from the Senate 1 was unable to take the opportunity to speak about the crown of thorns starfish problem. The Senate took note of the ministerial statement made on this subject. I now take the opportunity offered by the first reading of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) to make some comments on the crown of thorns starfish because I do not feel that the recent report of the Joint CommonwealthState committee set up to investigate the problem should go unchallenged. However, before turning to that subject I wish to draw the attention of the Senate to the loss to Queensland and the nation of John Busst, an outstanding conservationist of north Queensland whose sudden death only a few weeks ago was a great loss to the cause of conservation, especially in Queensland. The efforts of John Busst were responsible in many ways for delaying the commercial exploitation of the Great Barrier Reef.  His  close friendship with the late Prime Minister Harold Holt prevented extensive experiments in defoliation in north Queensland. I say that in spite of denials  by  the Government in ans wers to questions I asked on that subject It is obvious that the Government had intended to carry out large scale defoliation tests in north Queensland. Because of John Busst's friendship with the late Harold Holt the experiments were delayed and eventually cancelled. 
John Busst's close friendship with former Prime Minister John Gorton brought about the setting up of a royal commission to investigate drilling operations on the Great Barrier Reef.  His  efforts offset the influence of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  - that extraordinary man who is Premier of Queensland - which was being exerted to have appointed to the royal commission a geologist who was closely associated with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  oil interests. We owe a great deal to John Busst and it is a great pity that his death should occur at a time when it is necessary to reactivate the campaign to protect the Great Barrier Reef against exploitation and natural disaster. 
Concern has been growing, especially since the committee's report was tabled, that the threat to the Reef is not properly recognised. We have now had 3 reports on the problem of the crown of thorns starfish. The first report was produced by  Mr R.  G. Pearson and  Dr Endean. Dr Endean  has expert knowledge of the Brrier Reef and of the problem of the crown of thorns starfish. If the Queensland Government had taken notice of this report of the surveys that had been carried out by these 2 gentlemen and had awakened to the implications it revealed, the problem of the crown of thorns starfish would not have reached its present magnitude. If the most recent committee had carried out its investigations and made its recommendations at the same time as  Dr Endean  and  Mr Pearson  made their surveys, some positive action could have been taken then against this threat, but because of the deliberate delay by the Queensland Government in recognising the magnitude of the threat, as reported in the first report, we are now faced with a continuing need of research for another 3 or 4 years before something physical, active and positive is done against this plague. 
Premier of Queensland right and you wrong? 
No. I questioned this last report - that is why I am on my feet now - because the first report indicated that there was a threat. The second report, too, cannot be ignored. It is a report on the crown of thorns starfish and the Barrier Reef. It is paper number 1 1 of the Australian Academy of Science and it was prepared by a committee comprising Professor R. J. Walsh,  Dr M.  F. Day, Professor C. W. Emmens, Professor Dorothy Hill,  Dr D.  F. Martyn, Professor W. P. Rogers and  Dr D.  F. Waterhouse. That report underlined in no uncertain terms the threat to the Great Barrier Reef and supported  Dr Endean's  revelations. It did not question them. It did not rubbish the surveys and reports of  Dr Endean  and  Mr Pearson  as did the last report. 
We have 2 eminent reports which say that there is a great threat to the Great Barrier Reef and a third report which says, contrary to the 2 earlier reports of scientists, that there is no threat to the Great Barrier Reef from the starfish. I would say that the 2 earlier reports are based soundly on scientific evidence and knowledge. One could argue that the third report also is based soundly on scientific investigation and knowledge, but as we have 3 reports, 2 stating that there is a considerable threat to the Great Barrier Reef and 1 stating that there is no threat I, for one, will accept the 2 reports. Any reasonable man would place himself in an invidious position if he were to accept the last report, especially when that report is so contradictory in its conclusions. In its summary of conclusions and recommendations that report states: 
The Committee is of the opinion that the crown of thorns starfish does not constitute a threat to the Great Barrier Reef as a whole. 
The report concludes by recommending to the Government that an investigation and research programme, which will cost the Government $300,000 to $500,000, be set up to investigate a threat which that committee itself says does not exist. I intend to read an article written by a young journalist which appeared in the 'Sunday Review' of 4th April 1971. It outlines the contradictions in relation to this matter. I feel it is important that these contradictions should be brought before this Parliament. It states: 
The brief report of the committee appointed by the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments to consider the crown of thorns starfish problem on the Great Barrier Reef, has already caused quite a stir in scientific and conservationist circles. The controversy is certain to grow as the report becomes more widely available. 
It is necessary to read this report because this matter is passing through the Senate in such a quiet manner, and it is important to stress that there is growing concern about the crown of thorns problem. It would be unwise to say that because a committee has said there is no threat therefore there is no threat. We ought to be aware that this concern and controversy will grow and that conservationists in Queensland and other places will see that the controversy is stimulated so that the truth of the matter will be discovered. The article continues: 
Already, critics have charged that the committee in its conclusions has accepted some hypotheses while rejecting others for which there is equal weight of evidence. 
Examples include the committee's findings that the starfish ' . . . does not constitute a threat to the Great Barrier Reef as a whole' and that the entire living cover, or even a large proportion of the coral cover of the Reef, will not disappear as a result of A.  planci  activity'- 
That is crown of thorns activity - 
The report states that serious damage is limited to reefs between Cairns and Townsville but brings forward no reasons why it might not extend to a large proportion of the coral cover of the reef. Some scientists who see the reef as a total ecosystem would argue that damage to a large proportion of such a system could well endanger the whole. The point made by the committee's critics is that neither view has been established. 
One anti-alarmist conclusion that has already drawn heavy fire is that 'reef-building is a continuous process of growth and destruction of organisms, including coral and algae. Consolidation of the dead material in the reef mass provides the platform necessary for the continuation of this process. In this context the feeding by the crown of thorns starfish on living coral constitutes, in the long term, portion of the destruction by natural forces within the reef-building process.' 
The complaint is that the committee's conclusion doesn't come to grips with what has to be demonstrated - namely that an extraordinary level of destruction arising from a population explosion of starfish is still simply part of the normal reefbuilding process. 
In other words, the article says that whereas a normal population of starfish on the Reef may be part of the growth building process of the Reef the complaint is that excessive population does not necessarily fulfil this purpose and may lead to the complete and ultimate destruction of large areas of the Reef. The report continues: 
On the available evidence, the starfish explosion may just as easily be one of those natural forces which result in ultimate destruction. 
Another disturbing feature of the report is contained in the statement that neither tourism nor commercial fishing has declined as a result of the crown of thorns. Although this has been disputed, no references are given to any supporting data. Nor has any comment been made as to whether these activities are likely to remain unaffected. 
The tourist market is usually susceptible to adverse publicity. Some Barrier Reef resort proprietors are suing the weather bureau over adverse publicity caused by cyclone warnings. 
Honourable senators can see that we have another problem, with vested interests endeavouring to downgrade the threat to the Great Barrier Reef because of their economic commercial interests. The report continues: 
In relation  to  fishing, the introduction to the report mentions a Cairns doctor's report that the crown of thorns infestation was coincidental with an increase in ciguatera - a form of fish poisoning often associated with disturbances to a marine environment 
The article in the 'Sunday Review* states further: 
In evidence before the Barrier Reef Royal Commission on oil drilling, a leading United States expert on corals, Professor R. E. Johannes, suggested that the poisoning might occur from fish eating certain types of algae that flourish on reefs denuded or coral organisms. 
Although a causal relationship has not been established the problem must be regarded as important but no further mention of ciguatera is made in either the main body of the report or in the conclusions; Yet surely this must be something that could affect commercial fishing. 
Severel theories explaining how the population increase in the starfish occurred were examined and most were eagerly attacked on the grounds of insufficient evidence to substantiate them. 
Of the various explanatory theories examined, the Committee opted for what it called the Periodic Fluctuation Theory - population increases occur due to failure of one or more of the normal population checks. It is quite astounding that this should be offered as an explanation of the starfish infestation for it is only to state the obvious - the question is to determine which population checks have failed. 
Despite the many comforting conclusions arrived at by the six-man committee- compared with the other committee ( described - comprising one human geneticist, one accountant, one geologist, one chemist and two zoologists, its final recommendation was that over $100,000  a  year be spent on further research 'as knowledge of reef ecology is inadequate to permit a complete assessment of present and future problems concerning the crown of thorns'. 
Despite the statement made at the beginning of the report of that Committee that there is no threat to the Great Barrier Reef, the Committee concluded that we should spend many thousands of dollars on investigating whether such a threat exists. I do not question that this expenditure should be provided for. I have argued on many occasions that this research is necessary and that it is mandatory that money be spent on such a valuable area. It is not only a State or national asset, it is a- 
I agree with the honourable senator who has assisted me. It is a tremendous responsibility which this nation has to face, and we should expend large sums of money to make certain that this area is protected. If we had botanic gardens that were infested by a caterpillar plague we would take immediate steps to eradicate the pest by the use of physical efforts. Surely we should not accept the decision that what is happening to the Reef is merely a cycle and that we should allow the area to be devastated because in the natural course of events the whole area will recover. It may also be argued that the great bushfires which ravage our lands should be permitted to go unchecked because in SOO years time that cycle will be completed and the areas devastated will recover to their original form. 
The argument has been put forward that this is what is occurring on the Great Barrier Reef, but it is a dangerous argument. If it is a cycle, as it is claimed to be, which is likely to take perhaps 500 or 600 years to complete, and the conclusion therefore is that the Reef as a whole is not under any threat of destruction, we must be very careful in our consideration and bear in mind that in that 500-year period other elements may intrude into the restoration of the area. Man himself may intrude. If the area were a wilderness and were left to its own devices, then in 500 or 600 years the cycle may be completed and the devastated area may return to its original beauty. But that is not the case in these days of pretty rapid progress and exploitation. What would happen if this area were downgraded by vast devastation by the crown of thorns or by pollution from rivers? The commercial interests which have their eyes on the Great Barrier Reef would be justified in exploiting the whole of the area, thus preventing the regeneration cycle from completing its course. 
So I feel that we ought to take the sort of initiative that was taken by the Americans in an area of far less responsibility. They have taken the initiative in expending $4m to protect their coral reefs against the crown of thorns by physically reducing the infestation; by protecting areas of regeneration. Yet after  3  reports and  10  years of investigation the Government will now merely provide money for research. This is good. Let us spend the money. Let us try to find the basis of the problem, but in the meantime the Government needs to provide finance to launch a physical attack on the problem, particularly the major areas of infestation. Do not let us be sidetracked by the magnitude of the problem or by the attitude of the scientists that no immediate results could be achieved because the problem is so vast. Let us follow the example of the man who had a vested interest in attracting tourists to Green Island. By placing a bounty on the crown of thorns he reduced the infestation and the devastation caused around that island. 1 give notice to the Senate that in the coming recess I, with many other conservationists in Queensland and throughout Australia - conservationists who fought to prevent drilling on the Great Barrier Reef - will launch a campaign to set up a fund to protect the Great Barrier Reef against the menace of the crown of thorns. Even if wc achieve only a little it will be something. We will endeavour to involve the Torres Strait Islanders, many of whom are skilled divers and fishermen but who are idle at the present time. We will seek to refit some of the luggers that are rotting in the Torres Strait. We will seek to combine the harvesting of the crown of thorns with a revival of the industry of harvesting beche-de-mer. Our aim is in some way to attack the problem at the major point of infestation. I give notice that funds will be raised to such an extent that the Government will be embarrassed into subsidising an immediate physical campaign against the crown of thorns. We will enlist the assistance of the various skin diving associations in order to attack this problem. 
If a particular reef is severely infested surely it is reasonable to launch such an attack as has been launched in the United States. Lest this infestation develop and move south, surely it is reasonable that we should try to erect a barrier. Because of the tremendous support that was given to the campaign to prevent drilling on the Great Barrier Reef perhaps people will come to the assistance of such a fund. In the circumstances I feel that the setting up of such a fund is justified. It has been proved necessary in other parts of the world. I am certain that the efforts of various groups and the various news media will be co-ordinated to such an extent that such a physical and immediate campaign will be successful. 
The future of the Great Barrier Reef certainly cannot be left in the hands of the present Queensland Government which is led by a Premier who has a vested interest in its commercial exploitation. This is proven by the amount of money that is being spent by the State Government in paying for representation before the Royal Commission. It is paying for representation before the Royal Commission in effect to support its case for drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. No money was provided by the State Government for counsel to support the tourist industry or the conservation cause. In all fairness, the Federal Government provided money to help pay the costs of the conservationists. I do not doubt that several thousand dollars will be expended in providing counsel for the conservationists to appear and present a reasonable case against drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. On the other hand, the State Government is making no contribution to the costs of the Royal Commission. To this date I have seen no mention of any amount of money paid by the State Government towards the cost of the Royal Commission as a whole but it is providing for the cost of an eminent Queen's Counsel to support the case of the Queensland Mines Department for drilling on the Reef. 
So we cannot leave the future of the Great Barrier Reef to the Premier of 
Queensland or to the Country Party dominated Government of Queensland, no matter what  Senator Webster  might think about it. It seems to mc that as  Mr Gorton  is no longer the Prime Minister we cannot allow the future of the Great Barrier Reef to rest in the hands of this Federal Government. The Great Barrier Reef will be saved only if there is a great involvement on the part of the people of Australia and it is the intention of the campaign that we will launch to involve as many people as possible so that no government will be prepared to take any action which will threaten the Great Barrier Reef and no government will be prepared to delay for too much longer some immediate physical action to protect the Reef against this predator - this plague - the crown of thorns. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many companies have been investigated by the Commissioner for Taxation to ascertain their liability for taxation under section 136 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
How many companies pay tax under section 136 of the Act. 
How many of these companies are engaged in refining bauxite. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) Responsibility for administering the income tax law rests with the Commissioner of Taxation who is required by law to maintain secrecy regarding affairs of particular taxpayers. 
The Commissioner has advised that, for many years, taxation officers have been conducting investigations to determine the taxable incomes of companies, engaged in various form of industry, which may be affected by section 136. In a number of instances, investigations of this type are still continuing. Because of the secrecy provisions, the Commissioner is unable to furnish the information requested regarding the companies engaged in refining bauxite. 
asked the Minister forCivil Aviation, upon notice: 
Does any aspect of the present dispute between Qantas and the Australian Federation of Air Pilots cover any matter associated with the safety of aircraft operations: If not, and if the present dispute is only industrial matters such as general conditions of work only, why has the dispute not been referred to the Flight Crew Officers' Industrial Tribunal which was specifically established for the purposes of mediating in such disputes. 
Why was the Flight Crew Officers' Industrial Tribunal established if the Director-General of Civil Aviation is empowered to mediate in disputes other than those which affect the safety of aircraft operations. 
Under what section of the Act is the DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation empowered to mediate in matters concerning general conditions of work. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration seen a Press report that a black American citizen has been refused permission to remain in Australia for another year despite the fact that he is reported to have special skills and guarantees of employment? I also ask the Minister whether he has seen the following statement purported to have been made by his colleague the Minister for Immigration: 
It is my responsibility to ensure that the rules are observed, and further divergence from these will not be allowed. 
Will the Minister inform the Senate of the precise nature of the rules to which the Minister for Immigration referred in that statement or, failing that, will the Minister table a complete set of these rules, for the information of all honourable senators, before the Senate rises for the winter recess? 
I congratulate you,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  for calling me because I am seated in a position where it is hard to see me. As a base for my comments I wish to refer to paragraph (2.) of clause 66d of the Bill. I refer to paragraph (2.) as a basis for my observation and a question of the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood).  The Minister took up some time in speaking about industrial blackmail which had been imposed by the Australian Council of Trade Unions on particular firms so as to enable a certain store in Melbourne to obtain the supply of goods. Might I impress upon the Minister that this is an isolated action? In comparison with the blackmail tactics that have been used in the commercial world over many years such action becomes very insignificant. I ask the Minister: How will this Bill cover the situation where a large retailer or a group of retailers uses blackmail tactics against a manufacturer - the Minister used the word 'blackmail' to define this pressure - and tells that manufacturer: 'If you supply goods to a retailer who sells the goods below the price at which we sell them you can discontinue supplying us with the goods'? In effect this forces the manufacturer to discontinue selling his goods to a small outlet, which to my mind is exactly the blackmail that has been imposed by the big retailing firms throughout Australia for many years. This is a tactic which has forced manufacturers to supply them and them alone in spite of the fact that someone else is prepared to buy goods from that manufacturer and sell them at a lower price. 
This has been prevalent in the furniture trade particularly/The retail furniture trade in this country has demanded the sole right that it be able to purchase from the manufacturer at a certain price, perhaps $100 for a suite of- furniture to which the sales tax of  2i  per cent is added, and they then demand the right to place upon that article a margin of SO per cent. If anyone endeavours to break this SO per cent margin, in other words if he wishes to sell one  article which he may not even handle or see because it may be delivered directly from the manufacturer to the consumer, they, demand that he shall make SO per cent on the cost of the article plus sales tax. They say that if the manufacturer supplies to anyone else who wants to sell at 25 per cent, which would be a fair margin, that manufacturer shall cease doing so. In effect, they say: 'Supply him, do not supply us.' If the retailer is sufficiently large he can succeed in doing this. If he is not big enough but combines with a number of other retailers through an association he can also succeed. What does the Minister expect the manufacturer to do in this situation? Will he continue to supply the small outlet with a limited amount of his goods and go out of business, or refuse unjustly to supply the small retailer and supply only the major retailer? There has been talk of industrial blackmail imposed by the ACTU in a situation where it demanded that it be supplied goods by Dunlop Aust. Ltd. Dunlop refused to supply these goods because major retailers said: 'Do not supply Bourke's.' Dunlop, the manufacturer, in many cases wants to supply the goods. The manufacturer makes his own profit. He is not concerned about the profit the retailer makes as long as his own turnover is going through the factory. He wants his goods to be sold in quantity, and if the price is lower the quantity of the goods he manufactures to meet demand may be even greater. So he is not very much concerned about resale price maintenance. In many cases it is the retailer who imposes the resale price maintenance, and I want to know exactly how this Bill will prevent -that situation from occurring. The demand by Bourke's Melbourne Pty Ltd was that it be supplied with goods by Dunlop. They wanted to exercise their free will to sell those goods at what they considered to be a reasonable margin of 20 to 22i per cent instead of 50 per cent and, in some cases, 55 to 60 per cent. 
I would like further brief clarification in relation to proposed new section 66d. As we go through this Bill I can see now why the Government applied the guillotine to it in the other place. The closer scrutiny we give to it, the more likely we are to oppose it, but perish the thought at the moment. The Minister in his answers has made it fairly clear that no person can enter into an agreement with another person oh the basis of maintaining a retail price. Can he explain how the oil companies will find themselves placed in entering into agreements with persons to operate one of their outlets when they specify that the purchaser shall purchase a particular type of commodity from a particular type of supplier and sell it only at a particular price? Would this arrangement and agreement be illegal under this Bill? Tt appears to be so from the explanations which the Minister has given. I am referring to an arrangement by which 2 people arrive at an agreement to sell at a certain price otherwise the agreement is broken. I think it has been referred to as conscious parallelism. It is a situation which exists at the present time in great depth in this country. How is this covered by the Bill, and if it is not covered, what is the intention of the Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Government studied whether there is a trend to increased or decreased 'durability' in 'consumer durables', in view of increased concern about the cost of living in Australia; if not, will steps be taken to institute a continuous assessment of this situation? 
Is there any Government sponsored research undertaken, designed to improve the use of products manufactured in Australia; if so, what is the amount spent on such research and will the Government increase it, in view of the contribution it could make to reduce the cost of living? 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. There would be great problems and difficulties in making objective measurements of the type suggested by the honourable senator and the Government is not contemplating instituting the continuous assessment to which he refers. It is generally believed that market forces are sufficient, at least in the longer run, to ensure that the  characteristics of consumer durables, including their durability, are reflected in their prices. The honourable senator will be aware of the activities of consumer associations which in recent years have given wide publicity to the results of their tests of various products, including consumer durables. 
Research designed to improve products manufactured in Australia is carried out in a number of Divisions of the CSIRO - among them the Divisions of Food Research, Forest Products and Applied Physics. This work forms part of the overall research programme of these Divisions and no accurate estimate of the cost involved can be given. The Government also makes annual grants for industrial research and development generally; for 1969-70 the amount involved was $8.915m. 

 Mr FRANCIS JAMES (Question No. 1103) 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Government, through the United Nations Organisation, take some initiative to bring an end to the war in Vietnam in view of the appalling and continuing revelation of atrocities in this war.' 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the 
Minister for Primary Industry, whoever he may be at the moment. Inspite of the explanation given by the Leader of the Government in the Senate that it is loo early to talk of the implications of the freeing of the United States dollar. I ask whether it is not a fact that the wool industry will be immediately in further trouble and that our meat trade also will be in trouble? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What companies hold petroleum prospecting licences (a) onshore; and (b) offshore in the Papua New Guinea region? 
What companies have applied for but have not yet been granted (a) onshore; and (b) offshore licences? 
How many petroleum prospective basins have been identified in the Papua New Guinea region: and of these, in respect of how many have (a) prospecting licences already been granted: and (b) applications been called for? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What is the maximum tidal surge for which the new wharf at Hay Point, via  Mackay,  has been designed to withstand? 
What has been the highest tidal surge recorded in the Mackay region? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. May I have the temerity to mention Vietnam and indicate my approval of the Government's decision to withdraw 
Australian troops from Vietnam. Will the Minister assure the Senate that while these troops are being withdrawn no overzealous commander will undertake any action or manoeuvre which might lead to the death or injury of any of these men? In case he is tempted to brush off this question will he specifically deny that the recent deaths and injuries to our men in Vietnam resulted from training in action missions which need not have taken place? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories upon notice: 
What companies have (a) mineral production leases, and (b) authorities to prospect for minerals, in the Territory of Papua New Guinea. 
What royalty rates are payable on minerals which are being extracted or may be extracted in Papua New Guinea. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What has been the total amount of legal fees paid to lawyers in private practice for work done on behalf of the Attorney-General's Department for each of the years 1967-68, 1968-69 and 1969-70? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What salaries, on average are paid to geophysicists in the Commonwealth Bureau of Mineral Resources who have, respectively 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14 years and more than 14 years of professional experience since taking their first pass or honours bachelor degree? 
In what way do these salaries reflect higher degree qualifications? 
Have there been changes in the salaries received by geophysicists in the Geological Survey of New South Wales? 
Will the Minister provide salary tables, comparative to those requested in (1) and (2) above, concerning geophysicists employed in the Geological Survey of New South Wales? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: When will the report of the Administrative Review Committee be tabled in this House? No doubt he is aware that it has been considering the problem of administrative review since January 1970. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, cannot wait for later discussion. I refer to the question I asked yesterday about the safety of Australian troops in Vietnam. Will the Minister, without using emotional terms such as 'stupid' and 'nonsense', assure the Senate that contingency measures will be introduced immediately to protect our men in Vietnam from any unnecessary action which may lead to their injury or death? 
Sentaor  Sir KENNETH  ANDERSONThere is quite a different pattern in the  19 August 1971  question asked by  Senator Georges  today compared with the one he asked yesterday and the answer I gave, if that is what he is referring to. As I understood the question yesterday, his proposition was that the Senate should decide the tactics for the commanders in the field. I said - and I repeat - that such a proposition was not in the interests of the troops in the field. I thought that, far from protecting them, if the Senate determined tactics, the troops would be at greater risk. That was the answer I gave and I do not detract from it. I suggest that the remainder of the question should go on notice because no doubt the matter to which it relates will be dealt with during the debate that we will have. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and I refer him to the answer he gave to an earlier question on the threat posed to our meat industry by synthetic meats. I ask the Minister whether he is aware that there is a further threat to our meat industry. Is he aware that Australian meat cannot be exported to a brucellosis free area? Is he aware that the United States of America has almost eradicated brucellosis from its beef producing areas? What action does the Minister intend to take to prevent a situation arising in which our meat cannot be exported to the United States? 
Before that motion is moved, may I throw a cat amongst the Democratic Labor Party pigeons? I think that one of the reasons why the proposition has been brought before us is to save the time of the Senate because there has been some feeling that there have been too many urgency motions. This is borne out by the proposition which has been brought forward for a shortening of time. 
This is the point I am trying to make. The true motive behind every one of these procedures and steps we are taking tonight is to shorten the time for urgency debates, perhaps to shorten the. number of such debates and to shorten the speaking time of honourable senators during those debates. Recently there has been evidence of the use of urgency debates for a political motive by the Australian Democratic Labor Party to embarrass the Opposition. Because, by some freak of election, the Democratic Labor Party numbers have been raised to five. It has been possible for members of that Party to move for urgency debates at frequent intervals. I wish to raise here the matter of support for an urgency debate. At present, one honourable senator stands in this place and seeks the support of 4 honourable senators. I want to know whether this number was the number required when the Senate was composed of fewer senators. It may be necessary, in order to resolve some of these matters, to alter the number required to support a motion for an urgency debate from 1 honourable senator supported by 4 to 1 honourable senator supported by 9. This may be necessary to prevent these debates being misused by a small group. I atn serious about this because we have a situation where a very small party, which does not even need to call a caucus meeting because it could hold a caucus meeting within a telephone box, can bring urgency motion after urgency motion into this chamber with the support of 4 senators. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many members of the Australian Defence Forces who have been wounded in Vietnam have subsequently died outside Vietnam? 
Have all these figures been included in official figures given for those killed in the Vietnam conflict-, if not how many have been included? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question. 
Seven. 
Yes. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Has the Australian dollar been linked with sterling on a day to day basis without an official announcement having been made? Has this action resulted in a steady revaluation to 2 per cent of our dollar in relation to the United States dollar? Is this, as has been stated by a newspaper correspondent, revaluation by stealth designed to keep the rural sector of the economy in doubt as to the Government's intentions? 
I direct  a  question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As the dollar crisis has been in operation for almost  a  fortnight, and in view of his evasive replies - on behalf of the Government of course - on the subject, will he now admit that the Government has no more control over the Australian economy than it has over Australian foreign policy and that our future depends largely on decisions outside our control and made by other countries? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONNo, I do not admit that. I think it is complete fantasy. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral received an application for registration under the Marriage Act from the 
Independent Greek Orthodox Church? If he has, why the delay in granting such registration? Can I be assured that the Government is not taking sides in this very divisive matter? 
I direct a question to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I refer to  Senator Turnbull's  difficulty in directing his question to a Minister. Is it not the practice to have a small card issued to all honourable senators which indicates the Ministers and their responsibilities? If this is the case why have we not received one lately? 
I thought that would be the reason or that there was about to be another reshuffle in the Ministry or the appointment of an Assistant Minister. Nevertheless I think it would facilitate matters if you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  could make representations to the  President  to have this card or a daily bulletin issued so that we will know exactly who is likely to answer any questions which we wish to ask. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - I have taken notice of the question which the honourable senator asks. 1 shall make representations to the  President. 
In addressing my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation I remind him of a question I asked him concerning the collision at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport between a Canadian Pacific airliner and a Trans-Australian Airlines aircraft. Since there has been a further incident at that airport involving an overseas airliner and endangering the lives of many people, will the Minister indicate why the report on the accident referred to in my former question has not yet been presented to the Parliament? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation and I express my alarm at the protracted nature of the investigation into the aircraft accident at Mascot. Is the Minister aware of the growing concern over this matter especially since, according to the DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation, an overseas pilot landed a jumbo jet by the seat of his pants? Is the airport safe for the landing of aircraft by overseas pilots or are some overseas pilots not qualified to land at the airport? 
I again ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a question which he has not yet answered. Are some overseas pilots not qualified to land at Australian airports? I also ask him a question of a different nature about factors which may be inhibiting the preparation of the report on the accident at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. What is the nature of the litigation currently in progress as a result of the collision between a Trans-Australian Airlines aircraft and a Canadian Pacific aircraft? 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Does Caltex Oil (Aust.) Pty, Ltd own any portion of any companies controlled by Ampol Petroleum Ltd: if so, what is the extent of ownership by Caltex. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environ ment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
How many applications from (a) throughout Australia; and (b) Queensland, have been received for assistance from the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. 
How many have been approved from (a) throughout Australia and (b) Queensland. 
How many of those approved in Queensland are (a) associated with missions or government settlements and (b) owned and controlled by Aborigines. 
What is the total amount of funds available and how much has been advanced (a) throughout Australia and (b) in Queensland. 

 - Mr President, the question I wished to ask was
              asked by  Senator Wheeldon.  It was a question on
              health. Now I direct a question to you, <inline font-weight="bold">Mr
                President,</inline> because I intended to ask my question of the Minister assistant
              to the Minister for Health. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General received an application for registration under the
                Marriage Act 1961-1966 from the Independent Greek Orthodox Church; if so, why has
                there been a delay in granting such registration. 
Will the Government give an assurance that it is not taking sides in this very
                divisive matter. 
In addressing a question to the Attorney-General I refer to the answer that he gave to me yesterday concerning, the Autocephalic Greek Orthodox Church, in which he stated that the Attorney-General who preceded him had not been disposed at that stage to recommend the proclamation of this church because he was not satisfied as to the long term stability of the church. Under what right and with what authority has his Department made such a decision, based as it is on the nature and future prospects of this religious body? 
Most certainly not,  Mr President.  I seek to ask a question of the Minister for Health and I will not request the assistance of the Assistant Minister, if he exists. I refer the Minister to a letter written by an 11 -year old which appeared in the 'Canberra Times' on Monday. It complains of pep pill pushing. Will the Minister share the concern of the 11- year-old letter writer and ascertain whether these energy boosters, as they are called, are based on the illegal amphetamine drugs? Will he also have an investigation conducted to determine whether the widespread advertising of these pills on television and radio was authorised by his Department? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONMy attention was drawn to the letter referred to by the honourable senator. It was written, as he said, by a lass who gave her age as 11 years. I sought some information on the matter. My Department has closely investigated the formulation of such energy boosters and has found that the claims made for them in advertising are reasonable. Under the Broadcasting and Television Act all advertisements of a medical nature on television are subject to the approval of the Director-General of Health. The criteria used by my Department for censoring such advertisements are based on television programme standards land down by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and, more particularly, a guide laid down by the National Health and Medical Research Council, which has recently been revised. 
The new National Health and Medical Research Council guide to advertising places heavier restrictions on the advertising of vitamins and pain killers, particularly in relation to certain claims of efficacy and safety. The letter referred to by the honourable senator appears to relate to advertisements on television for Stimavite Plus'. The formulation is known and it does not contain any scheduled drug or any drug related to the amphetamine group, to which the honourable senator referred  in  his question. 
As usual I am last in to bat. I make no criticism of  Senator Prowse  because 1 found his contribution interesting. 
Interesting. Since I have two or three minutes left before the Senate adjourns I can afford to be kind. In being kind I express my congratulations to those honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches. I look forward to hearing from those who, have yet to. speak. The continual shuffle which has taken place in the Government parties as Minister moves from responsibility to responsibility is puzzling to honourable senators on this side of the chamber. We have noticed that in this chamber the portfolio of Health has moved from the control of  Senator Greenwood  to the' control of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I could not escape the impression that the, quick transition of  Senator Greenwood  was in some way caused by pressure applied by the great medical benefit funds of Australia which, in some way,, resented his youthful aggressiveness. Some of us -hoped that under his responsibility the funds which one suspects have influenced the policies of this Government may have been brought somewhat into line. 
In some way 1 feel sorry and sympathetic for  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson now that he has become Minister for Health. I hope that he will soon be able to see the Assistant Minister whom you,  Mr President,  could not see the other day. I admit that I was at fault. I was not aware that he had not been sworn in. I cannot understand this situation. There must be some breakdown in communications. In any case, when he is seen I trust that we will take some of the responsibility off the Minister for Health and place it on the shoulders of the Assistant Minister for Health. I knew the Government tactic and manoeuvre was to take the Minister for Health out of the other place where he would face the criticism, the skill and searching inquiry of the 5 doctors who sit on the Australian Labor Party benches. 
The tactic was to remove the portfolio of Health from the other place .and bring it here because that would, in some way, protect the Minister from such searching criticism. However, we intend to take up the cudgels on behalf of the people of this nation to see that they receive better treatment, better health facilities and cheaper and much more sophisicated treatment. I shall launch into some criticism of the Government. 
Debate interrupted. 
ls the Minister for Health aware of reports which have belatedly disclosed the dangers of the 1970 flu epidemic and the failure of antibiotics to cope with the plague? Can he explain why the extreme gravity of the situation was not revealed at the time? Will he now admit that the private doctor immunisation scheme was inadequate to cope with the situation? Will he undertake to have his Department commence a plan for a national mass immunisation programme in anticipation of the next epidemic? 
Can we have some forward planning in anticipation of the next epidemic? 
What the honourable senator is asking is that at question time on a medical question I, as a lay person, should indicate some procedures for the future. I do not think it is proper that I should. I will have the question, as the honourable senator posed it. put to study and obtain a reply for him. 
Honourable senators will recall that at a late hour last night I commenced speaking. As I was about to launch into an attack on the Government the  President  scuttled me by putting the motion for the adjournment, under sessional orders. Again today I find myself faced with the problem of limited time. The programme for today is in some way limited because some new honourable senators are to make their first contributions to a debate. For that reason I do not intend to speak at great length. I believe that the shortcomings of the Budget which has been presented by this Government need to be condemned at length and in depth. What the Budget endeavours to do is based on the authority of the Government. But what it will do is the exact opposite of what the Government claims it will do. In fact, instead of being an anti-inflationary Budget it fuels the fires of inflation by adding costs to the price structure. This will further escalate the pressures for increased remuneration which will, under the system approved of by this Government, inevitably lead to increased prices. 
The Government has failed lamentably to look at the cost of distribution of goods within this country and to appreciate that too many people are trying to make an income on the efforts of the few. Too many people are endeavouring to distribute goods - and make a profit out of that distribution - within the community. Whenever we move about the country how often do we see several outlets for the one commodity where only one would satisfy, whether it be a garage, a grocery store or a chemist shop? In effect there is an overcapitalisation in the area of distribution which lifts prices by demanding excess profit margins. In spite of what  Senator Webster  said, increased and unfair profit margins impose a theft upon the community. 
A reasonable margin on non-perishable products would be in the vicinity of 25 per cent instead of 50 per cent. In fairness to the businessman I make the point that when he has to compete against a similar enterprise situated alongside him and to maintain the same overhead and the same staff he finds himself required to work on a 50 per cent profit margin. In other circumstances with increased turnover he could operate on a profit margin of 25 per cent, and even less on hard goods. This fact has been proved by the various discounters who have been able to operate. But one of the dangers of discounting, of course, is that the quality of goods can be reduced to shoddy; and this is a danger which is ever present in the community. But the rural industry and the champions of the rural industry on the Government benches should be aware of this problem - that the distributor is demanding too much for his operation and the producer is receiving far too little. If we were to look at this area and this area alone, there could be a considerable improvement in the problems which face the productive industries - the rural industries of this country. But the Government has not faced up to this problem at all. This is another Budget in a series of budgets brought down by this Government which say either stop or go at rather irregular intervals. The community is left to bear the burden of progress. The community - and a very resilient one it happens to be - has been able to manage in spite of the efforts of this Government, not because of them. 
The Government has been in a state of almost complete disintegration. One wonders, when one looks at the manoeuvres that have taken place, how it has managed to exist. The Government has managed to reshuffle the whole of the Ministry and to change over the whole of its responsibilities from person to person in such a way that the Executive, to my mind and to the minds of many people, is ineffective and is not capable of carrying out the function of governing this country. How can a Minister for Health expect in a period of 3 months to understand the problems which face his Ministry? How can he accept those responsibilities and develop expertise? How can he establish even the necessary communication with the heads of his Department in that short time? Yet this Government on 3 occasions, and for shorter periods, has imposed upon the Department of Health a different Minister. 
Such changes do not occur only in this area; they occur in other areas. They occur in the areas of defence and foreign affairs. The Prime Ministership itself has changed too often. There is a desperate need for change in this country. I feel that people are beginning to believe that if the democratic institution is to survive there needs to be a change of government - an immediate change of government. I am certain that at the first opportunity the electorate is given the people will surely change the Government and there will be another reshuffle in this place. Those who happen to be on the left of you,  Mr Deputy President,  will move to the right of you. 
The importance of the Budget, which now has been accepted with resignation by society at large, pales and becomes insignificant to the responsible citizen of the community when he views the disasters which are occurring overseas. I refer not only to the economic disasters and the down-valuation of the dollar but to the tragic collapse of human relations. The latest example of this, of course, is the horror and disaster of Attica. This is another name that will go down in history as one of the low spots in human history. This horror is a crystallisation of what is happening too often in the world today. Such an event is conditioning us; it is dehumanising a people with whom we should be more actively concerned. Events such as this are dehumanising us as well as those with whom we have to deal. They are conditioning us to the acceptance of violence and tragedy. 
We have reached the stage these days where compassion begins to boggle. We do not know to whom we have to direct our sympathy or assistance these days. Do we give this to those who are caught up in a situation such as Attica and the resultant disaster and violence which had to be used to bring a situation under control; or are we to look to, if we have not forgotten already, the destruction and mutilation of Vietnam; or do we move further to Pakistan and the horrors and the deaths of thousands of children in that country which as yet our minds do not accept; or do we go on to the Middle East, from the Middle East to Ireland, from Ireland to Africa and from Africa to South Africa? 
I am appalled at the condition of the blacks and the coloureds in South Africa. I am appalled by the lack of understanding on the part of the Government and those who support it; the lack of understanding on the part of those who criticise the people who were involved in the anti-apartheid struggle and demonstrations in Australia. Of course Government supporters do not understand. They have never bothered to' find out exactly what has been happening in South Africa. What is happening in that country is what happened in effect to the Jews under Hitler in Nazi Germany. However, in Nazi Germany it was a matter of race. Some Jews were able to disguise themselves as being other than members of that race. But in South Africa it is impossible - and this point has been ignored and overlooked - for a person whose skin is black to change the colour of his skin. A person can change his religion, or appear to change his religion; he can change his politics or can appear to change his politics if the circumstances demand it and if his children need it; but he cannot change the colour of his skin. This is the terrifying iniquity of what is being imposed upon the coloured and black people in South Africa. 
If honourable senators want to read for their own enlightment they should get a book which has just reached the Library entitled 'Passing for White'. If they did so they would realise the desperate situation in which a coloured person finds himself in South Africa. A coloured person in South Africa has to prove before a board whether he is white or black. The terrifying situa-tion can exist where half of a family may be classified as black and the other half may be classified as white although they eat around the same table. This is the result of the racial policies of a government which we should have nothing to do with on any level whatsoever. Yet, those who oppose involvement with South Africa, even on the sporting field, have been abused, condemned, decried and insulted whenever they have sought to protest against any recognition of South Africa. 
This attitude is understandable when we look at the Government's behaviour because even in Australia we practise in the case of immigrants a policy which is in essence the same sort of policy that the South Africans impose. Just recently I read of a Greek migrant in Melbourne who had made application on 7 occasions to be naturalised and who, on 7 occasions, was refused in spite of the fact that he had been in this country for 39 years.  His  children are Australian citizens and his wife has been accepted as an Australian citizen. However he has not been accepted and no reason has been given. I do not recall this man's name at the moment but he states that he thinks the reason is that he was a member of the Communist Party. So the Government, for a political reason, refuses him naturalisation. I have spoken of this before. But here is an instance where a man has decided for various reasons to change his political affiliations. This man states that he has not been a member of the Communist Party for the last 4 years. He has changed his point of view. He has come to a political decision.  His  attitudes are different. He has been a good citizen of this country and he has been guilty of no crime within the country, except that he has belonged to a political party and that is not a crime under our Constitution as has been decided by the High Court of Australia. In any case, he has changed his point of view. He has changed his political affiliations. Yet this Government insists further that he shall not be naturalised. 
That is his prerogative. 
 If that is the honourable senator's attitude I can understand why the Government's policy is not to recognise a person because of his political beliefs. How much better is the Government in this situation than Vorster of South Africa? Its apathy and attitude in this situation is appalling. Our attitude to our own Aboriginals in its end result places us on the same level as the Government of South Africa, except that our attitude is lesser in degree. I am talking about the end result and the conditions under which Aboriginals find themselves in many places in Australia. The conditions in which they find themselves are the same conditions in which the blacks and the coloureds find themselves in South Africa. We have achieved the same result in a different way. By our very indifference and by that strange quality of resignation and acceptance by the Aboriginals we are able to achieve with our coloureds the same result, to our eternal and continual humiliation. However, I will pass on to another point because I do not want to embarrass the honourable senators who will speak after me. 
One question on which I seek to try to pierce the indifference of this Government is the question of metal pollution, which has recently been declared a threat in this country. It is a problem that is horrifying to those who are prepared to search out the consequences of neglect in this area. Metal pollution or mercury pollution has become evident in Tasmania and in Botany Bay and elsewhere in New South Wales. In particular I want to attract the attention of the Senate to the possibility of metal pollution occurring on the Great Barrier Reef. It is a threat which is considerably increased by the likely establishment of a Dow Chemicals (Aust.) Ltd complex at Gladstone. Mercury pollution is created by excess mercury which is released in a manufacturing process going to the sea. The level of wastage in the effluent could be as much as 23 per cent of the amount of mercury used in the process. This effluent enters the marine environment. It may remain inert under certain conditions, but in other conditions of added pollution it can transfer itself or convert itself into the highly volatile methyl mercury. It enters the marine food chain. On entering the marine food chain it escalates in tremendous proportions. 
I refer honourable senators to 3 articles which I have read on the subject. For the sake of brevity I will merely give the names of the articles. The May 1971 edition of the 'Scientific American' carried an article entitled 'Mercury in the Environment'. 'Mercury Is Heavier Than You Think' is an article by Jay Holmes in the Esquire' of May 1971. An article in the Saturday Review', an American periodical, of 6th February 1971 shows just how the escalation of metal pollution is dramatic as it moves from the effluent to the plankton. 
The escalation. 
Yes, the escalation of the contamination by the mercury or metal pollution in the food chain is dramatic. lt compounds itself  10  times. So if there happened to be  5  procedures in the food chain,  100  or  1,000  times the pollution level could be apparent at the end of the food chain, which could be food which will eventually reach the table. The Dow Chemicals complex which is likely to be established at Gladstone is to use a process which was responsibe for the metal contamination of the Great Lakes. Dow Chemicals was the company responsible for the closing down of the Great Lakes. The process that will be used at Gladstone is exactly the same as was used in that case. The environment is extremely favourable for its operations because the effluent will flow into mangrove country, which is a breeding ground for plankton and for crustaceans, and so will commence the contamination of the food chain. 
The seriousness of the position is this: The operations of this company can destroy the effectiveness of the whole of the food producing area of the Great Barrier Reef and therefore destroy the fishing industries and breeding grounds that stretch right across the Pacific Ocean. I am not certain to which Minister I should direct this matter. However I have before me the transcript of an interview in which the Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  took part on the radio programme 'A.M.'. The Minister engaged in a certain amount of prevarication, dissembling and, if I could use the term, buck passing, which is characteristic of this Government. The interviewer asked  Mr Howson: 
Do you have any plans to present any Bills to Parliament on the issue of pollution control in this Session? 
The interviewer was referring in particular to mercury or metal pollution. The Minister answered in these terms: - No, because again in detail  1  expect most of this to be done either by the States or if it affects Commonwealth Territories by my colleague, the Minister for the Interior. 
The interviewer then asked: 
You don't foresee any particular issue or any particular matter at this stage where the Commonwealth should step in over the States and put down some hard and fast legislation? 

 Mr Howson replied: 
Well, we haven't any power to do so- 
So commenced the first move in the buck passing, which, as I said, is a characteristic of this Government - and this I want to make quite clear - in almost every case as I see it the actual legislation dealing with pollution must be the responsibility of die State governments. But we can make it quite clear as to what research we have undertaken . . . 
It seems to mc that we are about to engage in an operation of moving the responsibility from the Federal sphere to the States sphere, and in the meantime we will lose the iniative that is required to control immediately this problem of mercury pollution, especially in the area of the Great Barrier Reef. Since we as a Federal Government are providing the finance for the power station which will produce the electricity which Dow Chemicals will use to produce the caustic that is required for the alumina industry at least we can see that some restriction is imposed. It is a growing problem in Australia because the alumina industry has the greatest growth rate in Australia. For that reason we can expect the problem of mercury pollution to increase. 
Let me merely indicate to honourable senators the dangers of mercury pollution. If a person smokes excessively he increases his chance of dying of lung cancer at some stage, but the procedure is long and he can put off worrying about it, if he wants to, for quite a number of years. But that is a physical pain and the stability of one's mind is not affected. But in the case of mercury poisoning, the person's sanity is attacked. The disease is similar to a viral encephalitis. No person, whoever he may be, can with equanimity face the possibility of losing control of his senses. If anyone discounts what I have said, let him consider the origin of the phrase 'mad hatter'. Does any honourable senator know how the term 'mad hatter' came to be used? It was because people who were engaged in the manufacture of hats in past centuries, when hats of this type were fashionable, seemed for some reason to go raving mad and to spend their last days in mental homes. It was subsequently proved that it was because of the use of methyl mercury in the processing of the felt from which the hat was manufactured. That is the origin of the term 'mad hatter'. 
That was a subsequent story. The term 'mad hatter' came from the level of insanity among workers in the felt industry. I assure honourable senators opposite that it is no joke. In America, within 6 months of discovering the problem of mercurial pollution, it was decided that the pollution had to be controlled. Whole fishing industries were destroyed in the United States. Since this is so amusing to some honourable senators opposite, let me tell them of what has happened. Ernestine Huckleby, an 8-year old black girl, fell from the monkey bar at school- 
From the monkey bar at school. This is no joke. This was at Alamogordo, New Mexico, on 4th December 1969. She went home complaining of dizziness and pain. During the following week she stumbled and staggered about so pathetically that her mystified parents, Ernest and Lois, robust people in their 40s, took her to a hospital in El Paso, Texas. By that time the girl had lost control of her voluntary body functions. Two weeks later, Ernestine's brother, Amos, aged 14, complained of pain in his neck. Overnight he, too, lost control of his muscles. He could see only straight ahead, as though he were looking through a tunnel. That was the second case in the family. I shall not read the report on the other cases; suffice to say that the whole family was affected by mercurial poisoning. How did this happen? It was because the father had decided to obtain some cheap feed for his pigs. He went to a nearby army depot where there was some discarded seed. He was warned that the seed had been treated with methyl mercury, but he ignored the warning and fed it to his pigs. The family diet was mainly pork, and simply through the use of seed which had been protected by mercury the whole family was rendered incapable and virtually destroyed. 
 Senator Gair  seeks to joke about a very important problem, which is an increasing problem in Australia. What has been disclosed by Professor Bloom, an eminent professor in Tasmania who has carried out tests, reveals that in future we will not be able to eat oysters without doing so at our peril. If people are not prepared to take the risk with the oysters it will mean the destruction of the oyster industry in New South Wales and Tasmania. What is more, it could mean also the destruction of the fishing industry up and down the coast of Australia. If that is not something to be concerned about and if it is something that honourable senators opposite want to laugh about, they may continue to laugh. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy. On behalf of Australian dock workers, will he seek from the Minister for the Navy an apology for his outrageous imputations of disloyalty against these workers and their union officials? Perhaps he is not aware that the record of these men compares more than favourably with his own reputation and that of his- 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Treasurer. Has the Government emerged sufficiently from the economic limbo in which it has floated to give some information as to where the nation stands financially in the dollar crisis? What is the value of the Australian dollar in relation to overseas currencies, especially the yen? What has been the effect on internal costs of goods and overseas prices of Australian exports? If there is as yet no answer to these problems, when is it expected that there will be one? 
I will refer the honourable senator's question to the Acting Treasurer. As the honourable senator knows, the Treasurer is overseas at present. Many of the matters referred to iri the honourable senator's question are matters of great concern among financial advisers throughout the free world. To expect that I, representing the Acting Treasurer, would give a ready answer to this question is getting a bit into the realm of Gilbert and Sullivan. If the honourable senator wants to put his question on notice, I am quite happy for him to do so. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Will the Government through its embassy in Greece seek clemency for Lady Fleming who, at  62  years of age, has been imprisoned for  15  months by a military tribunal? 
That is a- typical remark to expect from  Senator Gair.  (Opposition senators interjecting) 

 - Mr President, 1  seek to ask a question on clemency. 
1 enter this debate in a transitory role to allow the Leader of our Party  (Senator Murphy)  to close the debate at a later stage and also to allow  Senator Laucke  to make his contribution to a debate which has attracted the attention of honourable senators on both sides of the House. The contributions to the debate have indicated that honourable senators are concerned almost in unanimity with the problem that faces us - the problem of the population explosion. It is a very complex problem and perhaps it is a pity that we cannot devote much more time to it, especially since Australia is caught between its position of needing population and the position of the world as a whole requiring a smaller population. It is a matter that ought to be left to the scientists and to the sociologists to advise the politician. We can no longer depend upon the advice of priests who are not prepared to accept the responsibility of theories which add to the population and which add to the problems and which cumulatively present us with the crisis we are discussing tonight. 
The politician must carefully assess what has been stated lately by prominent sociologists and scientists and do that which is necessary to prevent the destruction of our environment by over-population and by over-production. For so many centuries we have depended for population control on war, on famine and on pestilence. We can still depend on war in a small measure to wreak havoc, death and injury and to cut down the population in various unfortunate parts of the world, such as Vietnam whose population is suffering considerable loss through a war that ought not to be fought. Because of the balance of terror which has been presented to us by the atomic weapons, those horrific instruments that man has devised, it is likely that major wars will be postponed for some time to come. We have reached the end of the 20-year cycle in which major wars take place. Because the balance which exists between the major powers and which depends upon terror, one side is not prepared to unleash its resources because it knows that retaliation will come from the other side. We cannot depend on the ageold device that nature has provided to limit population. 
So far as pestilence is concerned, in the last 20 or 30 years science has achieved many improvements which have led to longer life for man, not only in the developed countries but also in the underdeveloped countries. But there is a balance here also, because having solved the problems of plague we have imposed upon ourselves new illnesses. Many people now die of diseases created by our development, by congestion and by over-population. Many more of us now die of lung cancer which we inflict upon ourselves by the over-use of tobacco in the smoking of cigarettes. Wc inflict upon ourselves an increase in the death toll or the carnage on the roads, which increases daily. We inflict upon ourselves illnesses which can be related directly to the polluted condition of overpopulated cities. This is evident here in Australia. As is borne out by the increasing cost of health services in this country, we have added a whole series of illnesses that were not known in the past. Perhaps, having gone through the part of the cycle in which man has been assisted by the wonder drugs, we are now entering a period in which pestilence again will act as a dampener upon population growth. 
Over-population of the population explosion presents a severe problem because it is erratic in its effects. There are population explosions in the countries of Asia. There are also population explosions in the cities of Australia and in congested cities all over the world. The erraticalness of the situation, in that there is a density of population or over-population in one spot and a lack of density in another, such as the continent of Australia, presents a problem for us in decisions which have to be made as to whether we can afford to take unilateral action for the reduction of our population growth, lt would be unwise for us to do so because the pressures that bear upon Australia from without - from the increasingly populated areas to the north - will increase. It would be undesirable for us to place ourselves in a position of underpopulation unless we are prepared to change our attitude to race and immigration and are prepared to accept in far greater numbers people from the over-populated and under-privileged nations of the world. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: What is the proportion of assisted migrants who are flown to Australia and to what extent does Qantas Airways Limited participate in this programme? Has the fall in the profitability of Qantas Airways Limited been due to the cutback in the immigration programme? If so, will the Government take action to reduce assisted passages by sea which may operate to the detriment of an Australian owned Government transport system? 
In answer to an earlier question the Attorney-General  stated: 'Breaches of the law should be investigated wherever they occur'.  I  ask the Attorney-General: Why is it that no such action was taken by Commonwealth Police against  Mr Ron  Waishing, a New Zealander of Chinese descent, who publicly defied the immigration laws? Will the Minister deny that to do so would have been an embarrassment to the Government? Does not this action reveal that the Government is discriminatory in its application of the law, in spite of the Minister's many denials? 
1 direct my question to the Attorney-General. Is it not a fact that by his direction the discretionary powers of the Commonwealth Police Force have been removed or severely limited? Is it not a fact that recent actions of members of the Force are a reflection of the Minister's aggressive desire to impose the law without regard to the justice of the moment? Will not this approach more than any other action destroy the reputation of the Commonwealth Police Force? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral a question which is a little differently based. Has he received the report from the Administrative Review Committee? If so, why has it not been presented to the Parliament? Will he expedite the report to allay suspicion that it may deliberately be withheld? 

 - Mr President, I wish to make a personal explanation to put the record in order. 
Yes, I do claim that, and I want the record to be corrected. 
I have to do it now because we are approaching the time of adjournment and I need the correction to be made now rather than tomorrow.  Senator Webster  claimed that I sent a telegram to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  asking for arms to be sent to Cambodia. I deny that I was the person who sent that telegram. 
Debate interrupted. 
Obviously not. But certain remarks were made in this place about Assistant Ministers being cuckoos. I was hoping that that was not the position. 
Obviously it is in retrospect. I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Will the Minister take note of the claim by  Mr Lang  Hancock, a West Australian, that Japan is playing grand scale power politics to get greater control of Australian raw materials? Will the Minister ask the Department of Trade and Industry to give close scrutiny to the various movements relating to trade and finance between Australia and Japan in order to ascertain the true position? In particular, will he investigate claims that Japan has progressively stockpiled raw materials, especially coal and iron ore, and now is in a position to reduce purchases and further depress prices and income losses of Australian mining companies, thus laying them open to takeover by foreign companies? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. May I direct the Minister's attention to the statement of 12 professors, a report of which appears at page 31 of today's Canberra Times', pointing out the urgency for the Government to make a decision on the future of the Australian economy? Will the Government share the concern of these eminent economists and make an immediate decision on the matter which is of such grave importance? To put it plainly, are we to revalue? If so, in what way and. in particular, when? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI also saw the statement this morning. It was a quite important statement in which a certain professorial group suggested that there should be a revaluation of the Australian currency in a dual way, as 1 understood it, linking it to the Japanese yen and also to the American dollar. 1 sought to have this matter processed in order to get some information on it. At present I am not in a position to respond to this very important question from  Senator Georges,  although I would hope to be in a position tomorrow to make some comment on it. All honourable senators will be aware that the Treasurer is overseas at present. The very nature of his overseas visit is related to matters of the Australian currency and Australian trade. Both questions are linked together significantly, having regard to the American decision in relation to duty. I should think that the generality of the honourable senator's question relates to a policy decision by the Government and that I may not necessarily be able to reply to him, but I should like to get at least some comment from the Treasury in relation to certain elements of the question posed by him. I shall seek to have that information for him tomorrow. 
I again ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: When may we expect a report on the collision between a Canadian Pacific airliner and a TransAustralia Airlines aircraft at Sydney Airport? Why was it necessary to send investigators to Canada? Have they returned? If so, why the prolonged delay in a matter so vital to public safety? 
I am not prepared to allow the matter to pass without making this observation. I have asked questions about it over the last 2 or 3 months. I was mostly concerned about the qualifications of overseas pilots who were required to land at Australian airports. That is the point I had been presenting for quite some time. I am disturbed by this report because it endeavours to shift the blame which obviously should be laid at the feet of the Canadian Pacific airliner to the Trans-Australia Airlines crew. I take quite a deal of exception to this and I want to oppose it at this stage. 
It appears to me that this report is a compromise which has resulted from consultations, over a considerable length of time, with the Canadian authorities. It seems obvious from the report that the people who were primarily to blame - it points it out clearly - were the crew of the overseas aircraft. How can one be expected to accept that an air crew received an instruction to take taxiway right and misinterpret it as 'backtrack if you like' without checking with the observation tower? 
Yes, and then make a 180 degree turn. In effect, this report is shifting the blame from the overseas crew. I would not mind that except that the blame has been shifted to the Australian crew and to the personnel of the observation tower. I make the point now that I do not accept this report and will not accept this report. At a later stage I shall make my objections in a more definite manner. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Debate adjourned. 
 It is not to the credit of  Senator Withers  to make such a charge against all members of the Opposition. 
Since he passed judgment on us let me pass judgment on him. This is about the second occasion on which  Senator Withers  has spoken in so many weeks. Since he saw fit to criticise the work of the Opposition on committees let us look at his record. Anyone who serves on a select committee in this place - there are many of us on the Opposition side who serve on select committees - know that there is little time left to us. In fact our recess periods are taken up almost completely. Where was  Senator Withers  on Monday of this week when a Senate select committee met in this place at 9 o'clock in the morning, sat through to 11 o'clock at night, commenced again at 9.30 the next morning and sat until 1 o'clock? Then the Senate sat in the afternoon. 
It is grossly unfair for  Senator Withers  to make such a statement against members of the Opposition, some of whom serve on 2 select committees and on many other committees. It is grossly unfair, especially at this time. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  indicated that this very important matter has been held up for years. We on this side of the chamber, in order to get a decision after such a great lapse of time, have refrained from entering into the debate. It seems to me that this device has been introduced by some Government supporters, particularly by 2 of them - and especially, I would say, by 
No. I am speaking to the amendment. I manouevred myself out of that situation and am now speaking to the amendment, 
The subject is the amendment. I am not quite certain whether  Senator Withers  is a member of that standing committee. 
ThenI ask him to appreciate the amount of time that will be required to assess the evidence given to the committee and come back with its decision on 9th November, or about that time. It would be of advantage to the committee, and to  Senator Withers,  to know the feeling of the Senate about this matter. Therefore the proposition put by the Leader of the Opposition that there should be a vote on the second reading is a good one. The standing committee at least would have the expressed opinion of the Senate on this matter. I think the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  indicated earlier in the piece that it would be of advantage to look at the expressed opinion of the people at gallup polls. How much more to the advantage of the standing committee would it be if there were a vote on the second reading, proposed for tomorrow evening, to so advise the standing committee how the Senate as a whole feels about this matter? 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Murphy's amendment)  be added. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the debt owed by Australians to the late  Sir Alexander  Fleming, the discoverer of penicillin will the Government, through the Australian Embassy in Athens, seek clemency for his widow, Lady Fleming, who, at 62 years of age, has been imprisoned for 15 months by a Greek military court? 
I direct to the Minister for Works a question following upon his answer about the training of indigenous personnel in Papua New Guinea. Can he give some indication as to how the rates of pay for indigenous plant operators compare with those for white plant operators? 
I ask the Minister for Works a question. If, as he states, the rates for plant operators in Papua New Guinea are so well known, will he kindly give that information to the Senate, as I asked in my previous question? If he does nol know the exact amount that is paid, will he give some idea of what percentage or proportion of the wages paid to other employees is paid to indigenes? 
 Mr President,  I direct a question to you. It arises out of the question asked by  Senator James  McClelland. Have you read the editorials which have recently appeared attacking the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange? Are you aware that in New South Wales there is a massive lobby operating to intimidate this Committee and, in some way, to intimidate future committees? I ask: When is the Privileges Committee going to investigate the whole of this area and come down with some guidelines for the satisfaction not only of the public in general but also of members who serve on these committees and who are embarrassed by these statements and editorials? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement made to a Court in New South Wales, in support of a drug addict, to the effect that a gaol sentence would be a slow death for the victim; if so, and as the Report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Australia strongly supports this point of view, what action has been taken by the Department of Health to implement those recommendations of the Committee which deal withthe treatment, rather than imprisonment, of drug addicts. 
I have noted newspaper reports  of  this statement. The Courts in Australian have discretionary powers concerning penalties for drug addicts and the offender may not necessarily be imprisoned. With regard  to  the Senate Committee recommendation that every facility should be afforded for the addict's medical rehabilitation, this recommendation centres around the adequacy of available facilities for treatment and rehabilitation. 
The Senate Committee's recommendations are at present under consideration by the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence and the Mental Health Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
I  must point out, however, that implementation of any recommendations will be primarily a matter for individual States, the Commonwealth having responsibility in this field only in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. 
 Thank you,  Mr Deputy President,  for ruling in that way. I do not doubt that  Senator Webster  was prompted to take the point of order because during the course of his speech, in which he referred to certain diseases of cattle, he failed to mention the very important and dread disease called brucellosis. It has  to be considered within the ambit of this Bill because it concerns not only the future of our meat exporters but also the welfare of the slaughtermen, the meat exporters and the veterinary men who have to slaughter and prepare these beasts for export. We had to wait until  Senator Primmer  spoke before brucellosis was mentioned. 
I remind the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  that by way of question I indicated that among the many threats to the export of beef from this country to the United States of America there was the added threat of brucellosis, because the information coming from the United States indicates that brucellosis is almost completely under control there and Australia could face an added restriction by the American health authorities against the export of our meat. West Germany, which is free of brucellosis, has imposed this restriction on our meat already. Meat from this country cannot be exported to West Germany. So it is very important to press the point that moneys raised under this Bill should be directed towards, and emphasis and priority should be given to, the control of brucellosis in this country because limitations could be imposed on the export of our meat to the United States. That could affect us economically. That is a very real threat. The United States authorities consider this to be a very serious disease. As a matter of fact, they consider it to be more serious than bovine tuberculosis. It may be that in the past we have been secretive about this disease because we did not want to raise the fears of the American authorities in any way, but I do not think that that is a reason for us to endeavour to avoid research into the control of this disease. 
I turn now to the human element and the need to carry out research to control brucellosis because of the dreadful consequences which can flow to men who work in the industry. Brucellosis is, in effect, the venereal disease of cattle. It is transmitted to man. In particular it is transmitted to the men who work closely with the preparation of these beasts for the market. There have been many instances in which meat inspectors have contracted this disease which, in effect, is incurable. It renders a man impotent at an early age. In many cases this has led to the breakup of a man's family. The rendering impotent of a man is a serious consequence which should be compensated. In fairness to the department concerned, it keeps on the payroll for as long as it can men so afflicted, but that is no compensation for the complete loss of family life. In Queensland 2 weeks ago a meat inspector who had contracted brucellosis died of an overdose of drugs which he took because of threatened divorce action by his wife. Who can blame a young wife who, in the early stages of marriage, is faced with this situation? It is very important that moneys should be collected and that a priority should be established if for no other reason than to clear our herds of this disease. A vaccine is available, but unless we face this problem, bring it out into the open and taken action to clear our herds of this disease we will face, firstly, the economic problems that I have mentioned and, secondly, the disastrous consequences which flow to the men who work in the industry. 
There is no cure for this disease. The meat inspectors are aware of the likelihood of their contracting the disease and take blood tests from time to time merely to find that they have contracted this disease for which there is no cure. Many meat workers in Australia contract this disease, and often their problem is that their condition is not properly diagnosed. For this reason, during the debate on this Bill we should indicate to the authorities, the Government and the Minister who is responsible for this area that moneys which flow from this levy ought to be directed towards finding a cure for this complaint. 
 I take this opportunity to place on record a number of questions which have come to my mind concerning the situation which has arisen in the Territory of Papua New Guinea. I do this in the adjournment debate because the questions are considerable in number and also because of the ruling by The  President,  with which I agree, that it is not acceptable to read quotations from newspapers during question time and that if the nature of the question requires some research it is not suitable for the short period of question time. Again, I do not disagree with this point of view. But it means that the situation will arise in which senators will have to use the adjournment debate to seek answers to certain questions from whoever the responsible Minister may be. 1 wish to deal with the position since the tragic and unfortunate death of  Mr J.  Emmanuel, a district commissioner in Papua New Guinea. Let me make it clear that I consider this crime to be a great atrocity and that no sympathy is intended for those who perpetrated the crime against a district commissioner who was highly regarded in the area which he previously supervised. However, there is considerable evidence that the Administration in Papua New Guinea has over-reacted to the situation and, instead of correcting the unfortunate position in which the people find themselves in Papua New Guinea, may add considerably to the problems. 1 will read out the questions which I ask the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories without any comment and knowing, of course, that he may not be in a position to answer them tonight. 1/ he so desires I can raise the matter again at the first opportunity. He can have the necessary investigations carried out by the Department in order to get more comprehensive answers than he may be prepared to give me tonight. 
The 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 3rd September 1971 reported a statement ky  Mr Oscar  Tammur, member of the House of Assembly representing Kokopo on the Gazelle Peninsula, to the effect that he had been told that police were raiding villages and forcing people at gun point to pay taxes to the local government multi-racial council. I ask: Would the Minister agree that it is the responsibility of an elected member to make known disturbing rumours of this nature if they came to his ears? ls it true, as the said report stated, that the Secretary for Law,  Mr L.  J. Curtis, told the House of Assembly that  Mr Tammur's  statement would be investigated and 'if untrue, careful examination would be carried out to see if the member for Kokopo has infringed any laws of this country'? 
I ask: Has the Secretary for Law carried out the examination to which he referred? What is the outcome of that examination? Is the member for Kokopo to be proceeded against in any way? Does the Minister acknowledge the Secretary's statement to be a crude and unconcealed threat to, and most disturbing intimidation of, a duly elected member designed to prevent him from discharging his public responsibilities? That is a situation which we should view with great concern since we are responsible indirectly for the administration of the Territory. Did the patronage of the member for Kokopo of the Mataungan Association, a known opponent of the Administration's intended political solution for the Territory of Papua New Guinea, in any way influence the Secretary's decision so to intimidate the member for Kokopo? 
To refer to the murder on the Gazelle Peninsula of the District Commissioner,  Mr J.  Emmanuel, it is common knowledge - one can see, for example, the article in the 'Melbourne Age' of 4th October 1971  -  that the Administration has been engaged, ever since the Administrator's eulogy the following day right to the present day, in an extraordinarily unabated and persistent campaign of villification against the Mataungan Association, complete with the rhetoric of law and order - something we are very familiar with in this country also - which has carried the clear insinuation that the Mataungan Association either inspired, instigated or aided such murder. I ask: Is it not a fact that despite the most intensive investigation into the circumstances of the murder no evidence to implicate the Mataungan Association has ever been found? Will the Minister make an immediate statement, in the interests of justice and fairness, unequivocally clearing the Mataungan Association of the innuendo of complicity which the Administration is unashamedly seeking to fix on it? 
The Administrator was reported in the Australian' of 9th February 1971 as announcing the upgrading and reorganisation of the Territory of Papua New Guinea security and intelligence services and as saying: 
The new division will be concerned with providing information about external danger and internal subversion, but its total role will be much wider. 
I repeat that he concluded by saying:   . . but its total role will be much wider. 
I ask the Minister: Will he detail the matters additional to external danger and internal subversion with which his spies are concerned? Does it include the surveillance of elected members of the House of Assembly? Does it include the members of the Mataungan Association? 
Honourable senators will recall the exposure last year of the Administration financed and sponsored Warmaran Group which was granted news media facilities to peddle the Administration's political propaganda. In case the memory of honourable senators has dimmed, the Administration's Director of Information and Extension Services, in a letter dated 1 1th May 1970 addressed to the Radio Rabaul station manager and published in 'Inside New Guinea', wrote: 
A major concern of the Warmaran Group was to reduce and destroy Kaputin's standing. 
My questions are: ls it still the Administration's aim to destroy the standing of John Kaputin and of the Mataungan Association? ls the upgraded security and intelligence service being used for these purposes? 
On 30th September 1971, according to the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 1st October 1971, a summary of a confidential report on the problems of the Gazelle Peninsula, commissioned from Professor R. Salisbury earlier this year, was tabled and, so the Press report said, its principal recommendations were rejected. The questions f ask therefore are: What was such summary and is a copy available? Were any recommendations therein acceptable to the 
Administration? The same newspaper report contained this quotation: 
The  Admistrator's  Executive Council considers that the first priority is a political settlement. 
What does this mean? Does it mean the liquidation of the Mataungan Association? Does the Minister accept Professor Salisbury's statement, reported in the Sydney Morning Herald' of 30th August 1971, that his time on the Gazelle had convinced him that all Tolai leaders were progressive men? Why is the Administration so unwilling or unable to come to an accommodation with the Mataungan Association comprising, as Professor Salisbury vouches it does, all progressive men? 
The Minister many times has given the platitudinous assurance that the people of the Territory of Papua New Guinea will be allowed to choose their own society and their own political structure. Since that is the clear statement of the Minister, I conclude with these questions: What public and universal political education has the Minister directed to be implemented to enable the people to make such choice intelligently? Does such education include the sympathetic presentation of the principles of socialism with which we are very much concerned, that is, public ownership of the means of production, distribution and exchange? If not, why not? Does the Minister intend the people of the Territory of Papua New Guinea to be kept in ignorance of a social system adopted in whole or in part by a majority of the citizens of the world? Is not the sin of the Mataungan Association that it rejects as unsuitable for the Territory of Papua New Guinea the capitalist free enterpise system which the Administration is endeavouring to transplant and entrench before the people there discover the total inadequacy of such a system in a newly emerging nation? 
I place those question on the record and I ask that in due course some answers be given to the matters I have raised. 1 have with me some copies of the articles to which the questions refer and I ask for the leave of the Senate to incorporate them in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
1 will conclude at that point,  Mr Deputy President,  and take no further time of the Senate. (The documents read as follows) - 
Johnson Takes Over NG Security Service 
By MAX HOLLINGSWORTH 
The Papua-New Guinea Administrator,  Mr Johnson,  yesterday announced a sweeping reorganisation of the Territory's security and intelligence network. 

 Mr Johnson, speaking in Port Moresby, defended security work and said be did not want a cloak of secrecy cast over intelligence services or their motives. 
He announced the establishment of a division of security and intelligence, to be set up within the Administrator's Department and headed by a first assistant-secretary. 

 Mr Johnson said the Administration would be remiss if an intelligence service was not developed and made available for use by a self-governing Papua-New Guinea. 
He had been concerned by criticism of such a service which emanated perhaps from a suspicion that intelligence information was used to suppress civil liberties and silence critics of the present Government. 1 suggest no citizens of any country of the world have greater freedom of speech than Papuans and New Guineans' the Administrator said. 'No citizen is subject to coercion because he expresses opinions critical of government action or motives. 
As the Territory advances towards independence there is a need for the structure of government to become more streamlined and more sophisticated so it may be able better to meet the increasing demands that are made on it.' 

 Mr Johnson said the new division would be concerned with providing information about external danger and internal subversion, but its total role would be much wider. 
NG Taxes Taken At Gunpoint 
PORT MORESBY, Thursday- Legal action may bc taken against a member of Papua New Guinea's House of Assembly for claiming police were collecting taxes at gunpoint on the Gazelle Peninsula, the Secretary for Law,  Mr L.  J. Curtis, said today. 

 Mr Oscar Tammur, member for Kokopo and patron of the Mataungan Association, said in Rabaul yesterday that he had been told police were raiding villages and forcing people at gunpoint to pay taxes to the Gazelle Council. 

 His allegation was denied by the East New Britain District Commissioner,  Mr Arthur  Carey, who has been directing police action on the Gazelle Peninsula after the murder two weeks ago of bis predecessor,  Mr Jack  Emanuel. 
In the House of Assembly today,  Mr W.  A. Lussick (Marius and New Ireland) asked  Mr Curtis  to take appropriate action to stop inaccurate and damaging rumours if  Mr Tammur's  statement was untrue. 

 Mr Curtis said the claim would be investigated and if it was found to be true - 'which I doubt' - action would be taken. 
If untrue, 'careful examination will be carried out to see  H  the member for Kokopo has infringed any laws of this country*. (AAP) 
Gazelle Proposal Is Rejected BY NG Cabinet 
From IAN HICKS 
PORT MORESBY, Thursday- Papua New Guinea's embryo Cabinet has rejected principal recommendation from Canadian anthropologist Professor Richard Salisbury on the Gazelle Peninsula of East New Britain. 
The  Deputy  Administrator,  Mr Tony  Newman, made it clear today that neither the Administration nor the Cabinet - the Administrator's Executive Council - saw any long-term solution to the Gazelle problems in (he Salisbury report. 
The council considers that the first priority is a political settlement',  Mr Newman  said when tabling a summary of Professor Salisbury's recommendations, and the council's reaction to them, in ,he House of Assembly. 
Professor Salisbury is understood to have argued that a breakdown of communications between the Administration and the 70,000 Tolai people of the Gazelle was at the root of the peninsula's problems. 
He urged that Tolai public servants be returned home to staff and direct Administration departments in Rabaul and that regulations governing participation of public servants in politics be greatly relaxed. 
The council has rejected the first recommendation and indicated rejection of the second - both reactions are predictably in line with Australian policy. 
Similarly predictably based is the council view that there will be no changes in the structure and status of the Gazelle Peninsula Local Government Council unless all Gazelle factions take part in next December's council elections, thus producing a fully representative council membership. 
The official summary of his report indicate? that Professor Salisbury wanted changes before the elections to entice the Mataungan Association to take part in the poll. 
With such enticement rejected by the Administration and the Executive Council, there is little likelihood that the Mataungan Association will change its opposition to the Gazelle Council and lake part in the poll. 
Plea to Return all Tolai Officials to Gazelle Duties  From IAN HICKS 
PORT MORESBY, Sunday.- Papua New Guinea's Administration will be urged tomorrow to transfer senior Tolai public servants working outside the Gazelle Peninsula back to their homes. 
The return of educated and experienced Tolais to the Gazelle is one of the key recommendations in a confidential report to be presented to the Administration by a Canadian anthropologist, Professor Richard Salisbury. 
Professor Salisbury, professor of economic anthropology at McGill University, Montreal, is investigating the Gazelle Peninsula problems for the Territory Administration. 
The report will also urge the Administration to permit the establishment of a Tolai local government council, independent of the division of Local Government, to explain land law policies and to provide a new form of assistance to local businesses. 
It will also recommend to the Administration that the Mataungan Association's New Guinea Development Corporation not only be assisted, but be given sufficient help to ensure its success. 
Professor Salisbury wrote the report, which will go to the Administrator,  Mr L.  W. Johnson, tomorrow morning, after three weeks on the Gazelle Peninsula, on which he is an expert. 
He said today that his time on the Gazelle had convinced him that all Tolai leaden were progressive men. 
None of them was a 'yes' man as alleged by some young revolutionaries. 
All Tolais had agreed there was a need for much more local control of politics and economics. 
But they disagreed on techniques of getting it,' Professor Salisbury said. 
I have no solution for this; they have to do it themselves. But 1 think there are some things the Administration can do to help.' 
I have said to the local people that if the feel able to go it alone in local government without an Administration adviser, then the Administration should recognise this,' Professor Salisbury said. 
The Administration should recognise that this is a gamble that may lead to lower efficiency, but which is very important if there is to be Tolai control.' 

 Major part 

Professor Salisbury said the idea of sending Tolai public servants back to the Gazelle was designed to mend the communications breakdown that was a major part of the Gazelle problems. 
The people who explain administration actions to the Tolai people should be people who speak Tolai,' he said. 
It is really incredible if you look at the history of the past four or five years how much of it is based on poor communications. 
For example, there is nothing really wrong with a multi-racial council except that the Tolai in the early stages of the council dispute didn't understand what it was all about. 
The whole issue of how to get knowledge ot new legislation, new policies and new institutions across to the Tolai people is something that really has to be faced. 
If the Gazelle situation had not arisen over the issue of a multi-racial council, it would simply have come up over something else a few years later. 
You must recognise these different pressures of regionalism, and one of them is that policies have to be explained locally, and they have to be adapted to suit circumstances - expatriates are not very good at this.' 
Professor Salisbury said past experience with development corporations provided useful advice for the Mataungan Association's New Guinea Development Corporation. 
There is suspicion in the Gazelle that things are not well with the development corporation; people have paid their money in during the past year and a half and nothing has yet happened,' he said. 
If it does fail it will be serious for the Tolai people, and the Government should be prepared to do what it can to help.' 
Professor Salisbury said the New Guinea Development Corporation was the brainchild of Mataungan spokesman  Mr John  Kaputin, who is understood to have collected about $70,000 from the Tolai people for use as capital for the venture. 
Papua-N.G.'s Intelligence be Upgraded 
PORT MORESBY (AAP): Papua-New Guinea's security and intelligence services are to be upgraded and re-organised, the Administrator,  Mr L.  W. Johnson, announced yesterday. 
A new division, expected to be headed by the Acting Secretary for International Relations and Internal Affairs,  Mr Gordon  Linsley, will be set up in the Department of the Administrator to run the services. 
This means the police will no longer be responsible for security intelligence. 

 Mr Johnson said the services would have 'a role of assisting the Government to ensure the safety of the country and the protection of the people by providing information about external dangers and internal subversion'. 
It also would have the wider role of the 'collection, validation, analysis and assessment of every kind of information which will contribute towards the Government's understanding of climates of opinion and appreciation of peoples' attitudes, needs and aspirations, which will provide early warning of developing pressures and underlying discontents, and which will point to unpopular policies and prompt a realisation of the dangers inherent in pursuing them'. 
Intelligence, in other words, assists the Government to make intelligent, informed decisions and to devise sound, acceptable policies,' said  Mr Johnson. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that the glass of the observation bays of the control tower at the Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport is subject to misting in wet weather? ls it not also a fact that on the night of the collision between the Canadian Pacific Airlines Ltd airliner and the Trans-Australia Airlines airliner this misting was at its worst, and in fact the Canadian Pacific airliner was not in sight of those in control of the observation tower? Is it also a fact that complaints have been made by the staff of the observation tower concerning this matter over a long period and that they have been advised that nothing will be done concerning this until the new observation tower is built? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Do the air traffic regulations at the Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport clearly state that any aircraft larger than a Boeing 727 shall not make a 160 degree turn? If this is the case, is this regulation made known to, or is it known by, overseas operators of airliners? If it is known, how did it come about that an overseas airliner made a 180 degree turn at the Sydney Airport? 
I address a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. If he has no concern for public safety- 
Am I to take it from his response to my questions this morning that the Minister for Civil Aviation is not prepared to answer any questions concerning the safety of the Sydney Airport because of pending litigation concerning that collision? 
Will the Minister representing the Prime Minister explain the nature of the appointment of  Dr Coombs  as adviser on the Prime Minister's mission overseas? Does he admit that  Dr Coombs  was surprised by the appointment? Will he indicate to the Senate what will be the future role of  Dr Coombs?  Does this appointment in some way reduce the standing of the other 13 advisers? 
What about the Prime Minister's mind? 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister to recall that over the past few weeks I have asked questions about the economy and the state of the Australian dollar. He indicated that in due course some statement would be made, I now ask: How is it that the Prime Minister can announce not to the Parliament but to a correspondent that the Australian dollar is to be continually tied to sterling? Is this the case? When are we likely to receive a statement on the position of the Australian dollar and the Australian economy in general? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI will look at the honourable senator's question and see whether a statement is to be made. As to some other reported statement that the Prime Minister is alleged to have made to certain people, I shall not comment. 
My question, directed to the Minister for Works, follows upon an answer he gave about the employment of plant operators in the Territory of Papua New Guinea. Is it not a fact that at Bougainville indigenous plant operators are working alongside expatriate plant operators but are receiving considerably different rates of pay? Can he justify that situation and the tensions that flow from it? 
May I tentatively test your patience,  Mr President,  and ask  a  question of the Leader of the Government  in  the Senate? 
My question, which 1 address to the Attorney-General, follows on the question by  Senator Cavanagh  and the answer given to him. In spite of the assurance given by the Attorney-General that it was not his Department that instigated proceedings, can the Senate be assured that it was not his 
Department that imposed upon the Commonwealth Police not to press full charges against the person arrested? 
In a statement put down by him today the Leader of the Government in the Senate announced that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had gone to Saigon to be present at the inauguration of President Thieu. I ask: Why was there such a high level representation to celebrate such an undemocratic result? Does this indicate that the Australian Government approved of the method of the election of President Thieu, which excluded all other candidates? If so, why has there been a change of attitude on the part of the Government which previously did not approve of the election and did not send observers? 
The honourable senator expresses his views in his question and I am sure they have no relationship to fact. I put down a statement saying that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had gone to Saigon on the occasion of the inauguration of the  President  and that he would be home tomorrow. Anything that  Senator Georges  added is an expression of his own personal views. They certainly are not my views or those of the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Will the Minister take notice of the claim of  Mr Lang  Hancock, a Western Australian, that Japan is playing grand-scale power-politics to get greater control of Australian raw materials and will he have the Department of Trade and Industry closely scrutinise the various aspects of trade and finance between Australia and Japan to ascertain the true position. 
Will the Minister investigate claims that Japan has progressively stockpiled raw materials, especially coal and iron ore, and is now in  a  position to reduce its purchases of these minerals. 
Will this situation further depress prices, increase the losses of Australian mining companies, and thus lay them open to takeover bids by foreign interests. 
Does the Minister for Health share my concern at a statement by a spokesman for the Australian Medical Association that tests of drugs and new hospital techniques are being carried out on dying patients and that in fact patients are being kept alive for this purpose? Will he undertake to carry out an investigation as to which hospitals and personnel are involved? If the charges are true, will he protest on behalf of the Commonwealth and undertake to withhold any subsidies that such institutions may be receiving? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI did read the article referred to by the honourable senator and I think it would be fair to say that I experienced a reaction of concern because of the way the article was presented. However, all my instincts told me that I should be aware of the full facts before making any judgments. I have set about obtaining the facts relating to the matters referred to in the article. I think  Senator Georges  would agree with me that we should know all the facts and not act on an article containing a statement which might have been transposed. To do otherwise might inadvertently do harm. When 1 have all the facts I shall be happy to make the information available to the honourable senator, and if we think the situation justifies a response to the Senate I shall certainly respond to it. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer and it follows a question asked by  Senator Gietzelt.  Is it not a fact that there is considerable division existing between the Government parties on the matter of the position of the Australian dollar? Is it not true that the Leader of the Australian Country Party is supporting devaluation, the Treasurer is supporting the floating of the dollar and now the Prime Minister has come down on the side of revaluation? 
Revaluation is up, devaluation is down and floating is a position in between those 2 situations. 
Following the question asked by  Senator Keeffe  I ask a supplementary question of the Minister for Air. When he carries out his investigation will he ascertain whether on any occasion those flights took place outside the normal hours allowed under the curfew arrangements? If they did take place outside the normal hours will he see that this does not occur in the future as such flights result in considerable discomfort to the residents of the area? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. I take it that the hospital reconstruction scheme commenced on 1st November. If that is the case, I ask how it is that the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia in a letter dated 29th October to subscribers in Queensland stated: 
It is now certain that we shall not have sufficient information from the Commonwealth in time to advise patients fully on the hospital reconstruction scheme before it comes into effect. 
I ask the Minister: How does this position come about? Is the implementation of the scheme so far behind that hospital benefit funds have been thrown into confusion and patients are not likely to gain the benefits from the new scheme? 
I think the honourable senator has made a judgment which is not quite accurate in relation to the whole national health scheme. I do not blame him for that because there are many phases to it. 
Am I inaccurate? 
The honourable senator asks me a question.  Mr President,  am ! to bc allowed to answer the question or does the honourable senator want to ask further questions? 
I look upon this matter of urgency with some misgivings because it purports to indicate that there are serious implications for the defence and security of Australia. 
For that reason I was pleased to listen to the contribution by  Senator Carrick  who welcomed these 2 great events - the entry of Great Britain into the European Economic Community and the entry of the People's Republic of China into the United Nations - because he indicated that here was represented the greatest hope for peace. If this is true, the implications for our position are not matters to be feared but matters for which we should be grateful. The result which flows from the entry of Great Britain into the Common Market is that we shall not, ever again, be embroiled in a struggle in Europe caused by the petty disagreements of the minor nations of Europe. There is no chance that we will be so embroiled again. The entry of China into the family of nations, as it was referred to, in my view represents another great step forward. It adds to my great hope for peace in this area. 
For this reason I was astounded as I listened to the fear-crazed reaction of the Democratic Labor Party to these 2 great events. This is a fear which members of that Party have endeavoured to generate not only within themselves - they have an hysterical reaction to these things and we are used to it - but also in this place and throughout the country. Let us make no mistake about it: At this time members of that Party represent the power in Australia. They are the power behind the Government of this country. They are the ones who are responsible for the policy of this Government. When they react in this manner to 2 of the greatest events in the history of mankind, we can fear for the position in which Australia will find itself because of the machinations of this group. After listening to  Senator Byrne  today, there is no doubt that they will blackmail the Government into changing its policy from one of an acceptance of a possibility of peace and a reduction in our efforts to arm ourselves to the teeth. They will stand over the Government and see that its policy is reversed and that we shall continue to take up the posture of the warrior nation of the southern hemisphere. 
This is exactly so. Led by that pint sized colossus,  Senator Gair,  the Democratic Labor Party stands across the path of destiny of Australia. 
 I am not wrapping them up at all; I am merely appreciating exactly where we stand in this country.  Senator Webster,  as a member of the Country Party, and other honourable senators opposite who support the Government, have continually withdrawn from new policies, as a result of pressure applied by these people, and have caused this country a considerable amount of concern and sorrow, especially in the case of those who have become directly implicated in the wars in South East Asia. 
Tn addressing a question to the Minister for Health I ask him to recall that he supported the suggestion that there was a danger to the health of the community in mercury poisoning. Will his Department carry out a survey to ascertain how much mercury is imported, who uses mercury in industrial processes and whether any of the mercury which is used escapes to the environment and so enters the food chains in a manner which leads to a danger to the health of the community as a whole? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. I refer to the question I asked yesterday concerning drug experimentation on dying patients. Has the Minister anything to add to the answer he gave me yesterday? 
As I mentioned yesterday, the National Health and Medical Research Council has already laid down guidelines for doctors engaged in medical research generally. One of these guidelines stresses the duty of doctors to respect at all times the personality, rights, wishes, consent and freedom of patients. Another guideline states that the patient should have given his free consent to the research after being made aware of nil its implications. I am pleased to add that it is a condition applied to all medical researchers awarded National Health and Medical Research Council grants that they undertake to observe all the Council's guidelines on this matter. 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation explain to me the purpose of the scaffolding which surrounds the observation tower at the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport? Is it for the purpose of replacing the old glass of the observation bays with clear vision glass? Will he confirm this so that I can bs assured that the pilots of the planes in which I fly can be not only heard but also seen? 
I cannot allow the Minister for Civil Aviation to escape with the answer which he gave to me about clear vision glass. I ask him whether he has ever been on the bridge of a vessel at sea. Is he aware that provision is made for a clear vision disc to enable visibility to be clear at all times for those on the bridge? Can he make the necessary arrangements at least for the new observation tower at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, to see that such a clear vision disc is part of the equipment? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. When did he personally first become aware of requests for military advisers for the Cambodian forces? Was it as early as April this year? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI ask that this question, like the question asked earlier by the honourable senator, be placed on the notice paper. I am asked to give my recollection of when I thought of something. I think of many things during the day, particularly during question time. 
 I refrain from comment,  Mr President.  I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he has issued a summons against a person in Queensland, based on the evidence given by that person before a select committee of this Parliament? If so, will this action complicate the consideration of privilege at present being undertaken by this Parliament? 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
What has happened to Vladimir Petrov, the former Union of Soviet Sovialist Republics' diplomat who defected to Australia in 1954? 
How much has Petrov been paid by the Government since his defection? 
Where is Petrov now, and will the Government continue indefinitely to conceal his whereabouts? 
Is the Minister for Health aware of the reports that the mercury level in canned tuna sold in Australia is 10 times the permissible level? Is his Department aware of this position and what action is being recommended to the respective authorities? Will he resist any attempt to increase the permissible level of mercury to allow such contaminated products to escape the health regulations? 
If there are health regulations, it is axiomatic that there would be no attempt to allow any escaping from the regulations unless it was proven and established, not on any capricious judgment of a Minister for 
Health or lay people- 
You will not allow an increase? 

 Mr President, am I to be allowed to answer the question? 
Obviously, you did not hear the question. 
I thank the Leader of the Government in the Senate for that accommodation, which I do not really deserve. Will the Attorney-General consider postponing the action taken by him against a person who gave evidence before a select committee of this Parliament and in so doing incriminated himself? Will the Attorney-General first allow to be concluded the investigation by this Parliament into the rights, privileges and protection of witnesses who come before our committees? Will he accept that had these rights been properly defined, and protection and advice properly given to this witness, the witness would not now be in a serious predicament? 
-I again refer the Attorney-General to the extraordinary and startling appearance last Tuesday on the television programme 'This Day Tonight' of a draft resister, and the Attorney's statement that he was not aware that a person in conflict with the National Service Act would be appearing on that programme. Is it not a fact that the Commonwealth Police were aware that such a resister would appear on that programme? Is that not the reason why they reached the television studio at least half an hour before the programme took place? Further, is it not a fact that it was the AttorneyGeneral's Department which advised the Commonwealth Police- 
Well, is it not a fact that it was the Attorney-General's office which advised the Commonwealth Police that such a resister would appear on that programme? Does it not appear that the Attorney-General took part in a rather shabby plan to apprehend the resister whom he knew would be taking part in that programme? 
May I inform you,  Mr President,  that I had 5 questions to ask and that I did not intend to ask a further question now but I have been prompted to do so by the previous answer given by the Attorney-General. I now ask the Attorney-General whether he can explain to me what type of warrant the Commonwealth policeman who was at the Australian Broadcasting Commission studios had. Did he have a warrant for the arrest of Matteson in particular? How was it that he had this warrant when he did not have foreknowledge that Matteson would be there? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the value of the Australian dollar in relation to foreign currencies especially the yen? 
What has been the effect on Australia in terms of imports and export prices of Australian goods as a result of the international monetary crisis? 
and (2) In a statement to Parliament on 26th August the Prime Minister announced that, because of the state of uncertainty in foreign exchange markets following the economic measures announced by President Nixon on 15th August, it was not possible to settle on a firm exchange rate for the Australian dollar. However, in order to enable overseas transactions to take place, the Government had decided to continue to fix the exchange rate of the Australian dollar with the pound sterling on a daily basis. The Prime Minister added that the situation was continually under review and that any short-term change in the rate against the United States dollar should not necessarily be taken as an indication as to the long-term rate that will eventually be settled for the Australian dollar. 
As a result of this decision, the existing parity between the Australian dollar and sterling - that is, $A2. 1429 for £1 sterling - has been maintained. The value of the Australian dollar in relation to all other currencies is determined by the rate at which sterling is traded in terms of those currencies. As I pointed out in my statement to the Mouse on 28th October on the international monetary situation, this means that the Ausralian dollar has appreciated by about 4 per cent in terms of parity with the United States dollar. However, other countries, some of them important trading partners, have appreciated even more against the United States dollar. If the Australian dollar is related to the currencies of our trading partners, it is evident that overall the Australian dollar has effectively neither revalued nor devalued to any significant extent. 
The rate of exchange for the Australian dollar in terms of a number of overseas currencies as at 29t h October as quoted by the Commonweath TradingBank, is shown below. (Most of the rates are variable from day to day.) 

<graphic href="050232197111235_23_0.jpg"></graphic>

Rates for the yen are available only on application and not quoted publicly. However, as a guide, the rate in London on 1st November was about 328.69 yen for$US1, which was the equivalent of about 368.13 yen for $A1. 
I would like to follow  Senator Douglas  McClelland because question lime has been limited - and I understand the reason for it - but in being limited honourable senators have not been able lo continue questioning on a matter of extreme public interest. For this reason we have to take time on the adjournment debate to seek the clarification of points that we were not able to seek during question time. I am appalled at the situation in which the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  placed himself in l his interview that took place on ABC television. 1 indicated that at question time and you,  Mr President,  said that 1 should not make imputations. The programme was not broadcast to Queensland and, if I recall correctly, I also asked why this was not done. According to the information which  Senator Douglas  McClelland has revealed, it was broadcast only to New South Wales and Victoria. The Attorney-General came to some rather extraordinary arrangement whereby he accepted an invitation to appear on the programme 'This Day Tonight' together with a draft resister. It is apparent to me, if it is not apparent to someone else, that he must have had some reservations about appearing on this programme with that draft resister because it was obvious, from the events that lead up to the programme, that it might have been a draft resister who was under a threat of arrest. 
To my mind, a draft resister is a person who is in opposition to the National Service Act directly, not a person who is opposed to the Act. Many of us are opposed to the Act. The Attorney-General is irving io slip away from the question by saying that when they mentioned a draft resister he thought it was someone who was opposed to the Act. But it was fairly obvious from the precautions that were taken that the Attorney-General was aware of the possibility that the draft resister was one who was in direct conflict with the Act and, in effect, was a pt-.'son who was subject to arrest. For some reason, the AttorneyGeneral sought to take part in the interview in a separate studio. Information was given to the Commonwealth police. That information apparently was not given to the State police although I think the State police have some responsibility to carry out Commonwealth law. The information went to the Commonwealth police to be there at the studio. Someone in the Attorney-General's office - it has been admitted it was his office that gave the information to the Commonwealth police - must have anticipated that the draft resister would be someone subject to arrest. If that was the case, why then did the Attorney-General agree to such an interview? Why then did the AttorneyGeneral agree to have the interview in a separate studio? Was he afraid that if he appeared in the same studio with a draft resister subject to arrest he might find himself in the embarrassing situation of having to carry out the advice which he handed out to the interviewers on the programme that they should carry out a citizen's arrest? Was he afraid that he might have to carry out that advice himself? Did ke avoid that situation by being in another studio? To my mind, the whole thing is a fiasco. The Press in Queensland on the Sunday indicated that it was a fiasco. It indicated by comment that it was a situation in which the Attorney-General ouch not to have placed himself, and 1 agree. The position arose today that some ( my colleagues felt that the approach to this whole problem indicated that a series «f Attorneys-General trying to carry out Government policy were not, in effect, serious in their attempts to arrest those who were in direct conflict with the Act. Looking back over the figures that  Senator Cavanagh  has given, I would say that a reasonable conclusion might be that the Government is embarrassed by the Act which it has inflicted upon young men and is embarrassed by the tremendous task that faces the authorities in imposing the provisions of that Act on many thousands of young men. One conclusion could be that all of these attempts are just attempts to satisfy the militants within the Government parties, to show them that the Government, through the Attorney-General, is making some attempt to arrest draft dodgers. The result is that as the Act is selective, so are the Commonwealth Police selective as to those whom they arrest. 
I am of a different opinion. My questioning today seems to indicate that my opinion is correct. I have the feeling that the person who now, after a series of changes, holds the office of AttorneyGeneral is a person who is determined to impose the law against thoi-e who resist the Act and who is determined to treat these young men as criminals in breach of an Act. He is determined to treat these young men in the same way as those who are guilty of an indictable offence are treated. As this offence carries the penalty of 1 8 months' imprisonment - the period of imprisonment once was 2 years - one would have thought that the offence was an indictable one. But it is not an indictable o-Tence; it is a summary offence. Gauging it by the actions of the AttorneyGeneral, one would say that it ought to be an indictable offence, that he considers it to be an indictable offence and that he considers the offence to be an outright crime. 
The Attorney-General has never properly considered, nor does he understand, the position of young men who are strongly opposed to the selective type of conscription which has been imposed upon them by this Government. The Attorney-General would be wiser not to impose his will upon these young men but to advise the Government to scrap the ..'hole Act. The Opposition has suggested time and again that the whole of the Act be scrapped because it is unjust. 
What are the consequences which are flowing from attempts to impose the provisions of the Act? The immediate consequence in this instance is pressure against or, should I say, oppression pf the Australian Broadcasting Commission for endeavouring to present, news that, is in the public interest. The Government seeks to prevent the ABC from presenting the news as it happens. In other words the Government, through the Attorney-General and by pressure on the ABC, seeks to prevent the news from standing on its own feet because it is not to the advantage of the Government if the news is expressed freely. 
The other matter which concerns me also is that, by endeavouring to impose the law in this restrictive way, the whole character of the Commonwealth Police Force is being changed. Where once the Commonwealth Police was a supervisory police force charged with protecting the interests of the Commonwealth and its property, it has now become, under this Attorney-General, a punitive force which does not exercise the discretion which it used to exercise. This is evident not only in this case but also in the manner in which the Commonwealth Police carried out certain raids against University students in southern universities and in the treatment of protesters against apartheid in South Africa. 
A change - it is a regrettable change - has occurred in the whole attitude of the Commonwealth Police mainly because of the way in which that police force is being used by the present Attorney-General. Might 1 impress upon him the consequences which flow from the methods which he has been using. Might 1 suggest to him that he gains very little credit and that his standing is affected by the manner in which he is beginning to pursue these young men who seek to expose the Act for what it is. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Air, who represents the Minister for the Army in this chamber. I ask: If he cannot, as the representative of the Minister for Repatriation, give any details of entitlements available to ex-ser vicemen, can he, as the Minister representing the Minister for the Army, give some indication of the entitlement available to men who come directly under the responsibility of the Department of the Army? Is it not a fact that repatriation benefits available to members of the Army serving in Vietnam are severely limited and is not the Minister's hesitation in answering the previous question asked by  Senator Murphy  because of his embarrassment in having to reveal the true situation? 
lt has been indicated to me that I will not get another chance to speak. Therefore, 1 will now speak to the resolution. I want to complain, as many honouraNc senators on this side of the chamber and in this place will complain, that suddenly a very important resolution was put down, by leave, in the Senate and we had very little prior notice of it. During the emotional- 
We were given very little notice of ii. 
It was placed on the Table a very few moments ago. As I said it is a, very important resolution. 

 - Senator Gair has contributed very poorly to this debate by way of interjection. If he intended to present this resolution to the Senate with sincerity. I think his behaviour since he moved the resolution is questionable. 
Perhaps 1 have sat on a road in support of a very strong cause. 
Let me proceed to the resolution which ought to be supported; the resolution that places on record 'appreciation and gratitude to the personnel of ail Australian forces who served in the Vietnam conflict for their courage, dedication and sense of duty'. But the Opposition wishes to add the rider that we regret that this courage, this dedication and this sense of duty had to support a cause which was not a just cause and which has been indicated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  to have been an immoral cause. One wonders at the state of frenzy into which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  worked himself because the Leader of the Opposition stated clearly that we consider the sacrifice these men made was a sacrifice that ought not to have been asked of them. Nevertheless the Opposition gives them its full appreciation and supports the resolution. 
Bui 1 could not allow this matter to pass without referring to the second part of the resolution. Particularly do we express our sympathy to the relatives of those Australians who gave their lives during this  conflict. We express our sympathy to those who were injured, who were hurt and who were maimed. Let it be known clearly by the Government that if the Opposition's advice had been supported in the early stages of this war these men would not have been killed, injured or maimed and it would not have been necessary for this Senate to place on record its sympathy to the relatives of those men. 
It sticks very much in my throat to say that it was the Australian Democratic Labor Parly which brought forward this resolution. What a pious and hypocritical resolution it is coming from the members of that Party because they more so than the Government are responsible for the deaths of these men and the position in which the relatives find themselves. If it had not been for the support of the Party which they represent in this place there would not have been a commitment in Vietnam. If men have died or have been maimed in Vietnam then those honourable senators must accept the responsibility. Yet, they come here and move a resolution of sympathy to the relatives. Mark you, if this Government stays in office much longe with the support of this crew of unmitigated humbugs, then further men will die. I say that further men will be sent to fight wars that we ought not to support. For that reason I point out that the DLP is misguided in moving such a resolution of sympathy because the resolution exposes the  DLP's  hypocrisy to its full depth. 
I seek an opportunity in the committee stage, following on the earlier contributions, to ask whether the homes savings grant is available, has been made available or will be made available to those who save with credit unions. To assist the Minister, I recall that certain conditions were laid down last year which would enable credit unions to obtain such entitlement. 
Yes. The question 1 would like to ask is this: Have credit unions or has  ony  one credit union been able to take advantage of the conditions for the granting of this home savings subsidy? If they have not, is the Government considering any change to enable these worthwhile organisations to participate? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for  Labour  and National Service, upon  notice: 
Does the Minister accept responsibility for the safety of young men who have been imprisoned under the provisions ofthe National Service Act 1951-1968? If so, why has  Mr Geoffrey  Mullen been transferred from prison to prison? 
Has  Mr Mullen  been subjected to threats and intimidation and, by whom? If so, will the Minister correct this sorry consequence of the National Service Act? 
 I take this opportunity to refute the statement of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  that it was disrespectful to the Senate for the Opposition to be critical of the provisions of this Bill. 
-I will exercise some discipline andI will not directly refer to the Minister's reply at the second reading stage. Therefore I seek to ask a series of questions of the Minister. Perhaps he will explain to me how this Bill will directly improve the position of the home seeker who is faced with an allocation by way of advance of $9,000. either from a bank or from a Slate instrumentality, at a fairly high interest rate. Can he explain to me how the young home seeker in particular will find himself in an improved position when the cost of land at the present time very seldom falls short of $5,000 and even a modest home of some 12 or 13 squares costs $13,000 or $14,000? Can the Minister explain to me how this position is to be improved under this legislation? Does he anticipate that the interest rates will go down? Has the co-operation of the State authorities been sought to reduce interest rates? Has the co-operation of the States been sought to increase the availability of money at lower interest rates, or is the home seeker still to be in the position of having to seek secondary finance at interest rates of 1 2 per cent or 1 3 per cent? 
Can the Minister explain these things to me, becauseI cannot see, in spite of all his protestations, how the future or the expectation of the young home builder has been improved in any way by the provisions of this Bill?I restrain myself from referring to the Minister's reply at the second reading stage, but may I indicate that it was his reply, his manner, his objection to the Opposition's attitude that stimulated me to rise and speak at the Committee stage. Will the Minister give me clear answers on these matters? Is there to be more money available to the individual home builder? Is there to be a lower interest rate? If there is not to be a lower interest rate, how does the Minister expect youngsters to manage under this new legislation? 
In spite of the Minister's announcement that he spurns details I would like to impress upon him how necessary it is clearly to define the interest rates that are being charged. Interest rates flowed glibly from the Minister's tongue. He referred to 7 per cent and 6.75 per cent which, in the area of home building, are exorbitant rates. As I have already indicated, home builders have to pay even much more than that for secondary finance. I would like to have from the Minister an indication of the level of interest the various State authorities will be charging. Has there been an indication that the States will reduce their interest rates as a result of this supposedly beneficial legislation? Could I have from the Minister or his advisers a clear indication of the level at which grants will be made to the various applicants in the States? Will $9,000 be available, or $10,000, or $11,000 or $12,000? What actual interest rate will be charged? If there is to be no reduction at the State level, the purpose of this legislation has been defeated. 
 The Minister from time to time in answer to questions has indicated his concern at high interest rates. Whilst I accept his assurance thai the down-turn in interest rates is probable, I should like hint to tell me what consultations have taken place with the State Government - 1 refer to New South Wales only in this regard - lo ensure that money allocated and passed across to housing co-operatives at 6.3 per cent, plus expenses, does not result in an interest rale of Si- per cent, charged on yearly rests, the effective rate of which would be about .10.25 per cent. What care or concern has the Federal Government shown when allocating this money to make certain that it reached the home borrower through recognised and authorised lending societies at a reasonable rate of interest and did not finish up at 10.25 per cent? 
If I might pursue this matter a little further, 
I ask the Minister whether he is aware that the policies of savings banks which make home loans available to the level of $9,000 at6¼ per cent are at present to demand that a borrower shall have had at least $1,500 in his savings account for at least 12 months prior to an application being made in order to be eligible for a loan? Is he aware that this policy on the part of savings banks is forcing young borrowers to depend upon housing societies for finance not only because they want a house costing more than $9,000 but also because, asI mentioned earlier, that is nowhere near enough to enable them to build a house these days? in fairness to the housing societies, they are prepared to advance this amount of money.I make it clear that young people are being forced to borrow from housing societies and that, because the societies are forced to receive funds from the open market, in many cases the effective rate of interest is 8¼ per cent, in many cases calculated yearly on the balance owed, often calculated at 6 monthly intervals and very seldom at less than 6 monthly intervals. I impress upon the Minister that his statement that the amount of money which is being made available will ease the burden of the home seeker is not correct. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 Senator Bishop  has indicated the Opposition's attitude to these Bills. As he pointed out, steps that were supposed to be anti-inflationary have proved to be inflationary by adding to the cost structure. They have affected in some way the businesses which are big enough to survive but have seriously affected the smaller businessmen and persons on lower rates of income who, because of added costs and restrictions in the operation of certain industries, have been thrown into inactivity, poverty and in many cases into bankruptcy. Perhaps the escalation in the cost structure was deliberately caused, lt appears to be deliberate. The Government ought to exercise its mind when it is forced to impose such measures through its own errors of economic practice over past years. When it is forced to impose increased costs and taxes it ought to make certain that no profit is made from them by the businesses responsible for the distribution and sale of the goods upon which the taxes are increased. It is questionable that sales tax when added to the other costs should form part of the profit or should add to the profit of the businesses which subsequently handle the goods. No firm attempt has been made to prevent that from happening. 1 want to express briefly my concern about the increased excise on cigarettes. As  Senator Bishop  pointed out, the increases will total §21m for the remainder of this year and $31,700,000 in a full year. I think the Government should reconsider the practice of obtaining income from dangerous drugs of abuse, particularly alcohol add tobacco. The recent investigation by the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse indicated that alcohol is Australia's most dangerous drug of abuse, leading to untold misery in the community and not only to great personal costs but also to costs to the community as a whole. According to the  Deputy  DirectorGeneral of Health the next most dangerous drug of abuse is tobacco. I find it difficult to accept that a government should obtain a considerable amount of income from those 2 drugs. From beer alone the Government will derive an annual income of about $400m, and from tobacco S306m, making a total of S706m. 
It means that the Government has a vested interest in the continuing sale of those 2 commodities. As the Government has such a vested interest it will be less inclined to engage in the necessary education and prevention programmes to reduce the quantity use by the community. Not only do the national advertising media - television stations, newspapers, periodicals, radio stations and billboard advertisers - depend largely on revenue from advertising alcohol and tobacco; so also does the Government. I strongly advise the Government to resist future endeavours to obtain revenue from these 2 sources. 
 -In making drugs cheaper and permitting the Government less of a vested interest in them, the Government would be induced to grapple with the problem and make clear to people the dangers of these commodities. At present the Government  is  not very much inclined to do this' and is not inclined to support the complete banning of advertising, promotion or pushing - if one likes to put it in that way - of tobacco and alcohol. 
The recommendation that I supported was contained in  a  minority report, which happened to be my own. 
 No, but I have no doubt that  Senator Marriott  has seen the light as he has given up the smoking of cigarettes. 
 No, I feel that  it  was a rather belated reaction on the  part  of the  Chairman  of the Committee which led him to  give up  the habit of cigarette smoking. I must .  admit  that. I  was  astounded to read in  a  newspaper report when  the  report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Australia was brought down that  Senator Marriott  had stated that the pressures on the committee had been so great that although at the beginning of proceedings he  was  smoking 20 cigarettes a day,  at  the conclusion he was smoking 30 cigarettes a day. WhenI read thisI clasped my forehead and thought that all the evidence  that  had  been  heard and all the education programmes that had been put before us must have had absolutely  no  effect upon the  Chairman,  atleast. It made me think that possibly education programmes would be of  no  avail. 
No. it was  not.  I believethat  Senator Marriott  made that statement off the cuff. That is whyI appreciate now that he is  one of  the  nonsmokers in  the community. But letme refer, again to the immense vested interest that the Government has. It could be suggested by some that part of the money which is gained  in  this way should go towards the promotion of a campaign against the  use  of tobacco and the use and abuse of alcohol, but that would be richer like injuring a man with one hand  and  bandaging him with the other. I suggest that the Government should remove itself from this area in which it accumulates income from drugs of abuse so that it would  be  less inclined to endeavourto raise revenue from this source. I intend to repeat this point from time to time, especially when any attempt is made to increase the excise  on  these commodities.I accept  Senator Marriott's  right to the view that  if  we make them cheaper there would be greater use of them), but I refutethat suggestion. The evidence does not show this  to  be so. For a short time there is a decline in the use of these commodities, but  in  the long term the consumer of these commodities adjusts himself, his budget and his spending to accept the higher price, so that nothing really is gained in the way of a reduced usage through an increase in price. It would be far better for the price to  be  lowered, for the Government  to  vacate that field as a means of raising income and for the Government to engage in large scale campaigns for a considerable reduction in the misuse of these 2 drugs. 
asked the Minister or Health, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of reports that the amount of mercury in canned tuna sold in Australia is sometimes ten times above the permissible level? 
What action is being recommended to the appropriate authorities by the Department of Health? 
Will the Minister resist any attempt to increase the permissible level of mercury in foodstuffs, which would allow certain mercury contaminated products to evade the requirements of health regulations? 
Yes. I am aware of the report in the November 1971 issue of 'Choice', to which 1 assume the honourable senator is referring. 
My Department has ensured  that the appro  priate State authorities  have been  advised of  the  National Health and Medical Research Council's recommendation to the effect that the permitted level of mercury in fish should be 0.5 parts per million. 
The States are primarily responsible for the enforcement of such requirements. 
1 shall add to the remarks which  Senator Poyser  has made. I am one of the senators who strongly supported the establishment of the Estimates Committees and the method of bringing directly to the Committee concerned members of various departments to enable them to answer personally any questions which honourable senators sought to raise. I have found extreme difficulty in coping with the work of the committees. Because of the practice whereby 2 committees meet at the one time it is practically impossible for anyone to co-ordinate the many aspects of his work in this place when other committees are meeting that engage his attention. I refer to parly committees, policy committees of parties which meet at the same time and all the constituent duties to be carried out. Because of all those functions it is practically impossible for one to coordinate one's approaches to the Estimates and maintain sufficient, intelligent application to the various sections of the Estimates. 
I do not go as far as  Senator Poyser.  I do not say that we ought to bring the Estimates back into the Committee of the Whole. I merely say that we ought to consider strongly the advisability of committees meeting one at a time. I know that this would mean that we would have to give extra time to them but we ought to follow the precedent that was established when Committee B met at 10.30 on Tuesday morning and progressed for 3 hours quite satisfactorily. I advocate that one committee only should meet at a time so tha! each senator will be able to attend its proceedings. Therefore I make the point that we ought to look carefully at the possibility of having only one committee meeting at a time. I find that when 2 commitees meet at the same time a senator is placed in a very awkward position. The result is that his work, his approach to and his examination of the Estimates are very disjointed. One approaches the table not properly prepared and endeavouring to catch up with the pace that the  Chairman  established in order to get through the estimates. 

 Senator Po&gt;ser made the very important point that ou! of the Estimates investigation by senators answers are given which lead a senator to seek information which may encroach upon a policy area. Most senators refrain from pursuing that line of questioning, but it is necessary and only fair to the senator asking a question tha' he should be enabled to follow out his line of questioning in the Committee of the Whole. If senators are not to be permitted sufficient time to engage in a full debate o.r areas of depth in the Estimates in the Committee of the Whole - making allowances for the detailed investigation of the Estimates that has already been carried out - then  1  feel, like  Senator Poyser,  that in spite of the advantages of the direct approach to officers of the various departments, we ought to revert to the old system. 1 do not wish to add to those remarks, but I am puzzled as to what procedure will be followed and I trust that the  Chairman  of Estimates Committee B will outline more clearly tonight the reasons for what is set out in section 4 of that Committee's report. This report is very critical of certain departments and instrumentalities, in particular the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the Australian Broadcasting Commission which apparently is not aware of its accountability to Parliament. Perhaps we will get an opportunity tonight, or an opportunity will present itself to the  Chairman  of this Committee, to explain fully just how these limitations arose and what ac'.ion is to be taken to see that this situation does not arise again. 
 As I was the one who raised the point of order,  Mr President,  perhaps I am closer lo what was being said at the time it was raised than other honourable senators. After a rather wide-ranging debate tonight the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Immigration  (Dr 
Forbes), finally decided to answer a question asked according to the normal practice of dealing with the Estimates. The question was posed in the manner in which the Leader of the Government in the  Senator (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has just indicated questions ought to be posed. It related to a particular line in the estimates for the Department of Immigration. That having been done, the AttorneyGeneral proceeded to ask of the Opposition-- 
Having completed his answer lo the question asked by  Senator Cavanagh  the Attorney-General proceeded, as he had been doing al! night, to question the Opposition - without any reference being made to any line of the estimates for the Department of Immigration - in connection with paragraphs (c) and (f) of the Australian Labor Party's policy on immigration. He then proceeded to say that paragraph (f) of that policy has been inserted hy  Mr Dunstan  of South Australia. At that point I raised a point of order and questioned the relevancy of the Attorney-General's statement. The  Chairman  of Committees had continually overruled points of order which T had raised in a similar manner throughout the evening. 1 would say that in frustration  Senator Cavanagh  was driven to the point of doing what I myself should have done, thai is. moving that the ruling of the  Chairman  of Committees be dissented from. 
Having suffered at the hands of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  for 2 days, I do not wish to tempt the Minister for Civil Aviation into a lengthy answer on the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation. Therefore I shall be brief in what I say. Firstly, what is being done to upgrade the Gladstone Airport to match the rapidly developing economy of that city or town? Secondly, what action is being taken to allow TransAustralia Airlines to operate from Cairns to Thursday Island? A third matter which exercises my mind is the collision at Sydney ( Kingsford-Smith) Airport between a TAA aircraft and a Canadian Pacific aircraft. Perhaps I should inform the Minister that I believe that this matter is to be taken up tomorrow night in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. I would appreciate answers to the 2 questions I have asked. 
On 18th August 1971 I asked of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development some details concerning the salaries paid to geophysicists in the Department of National Development. The purpose of asking the question was to ascertain whether or not geologists -to use a short term - employed by the Commonwealth were paid less than those employed by the State of New South Wales.. If this were so, there would be a drain from the Commonwealth area to the State area. In his answer,the Minister gave me a whole series of figures into which I will not go at the present time. These figures indicated that the salaries paid in the Commonwealth sphere were not only considerably lower than those paid in private industry but also were lower than those paid by the New South Wales Government. 
The question is posed: How can the Department cany out the surveys which are necessary to meet the suggestion put by the Opposition? If it is impossible for the Departmentto hold these specialists because of the disparity in the returns, what action is the Department taking to make certain that there is not a continuing drain ofgeophysicists in particular from the Department? No organisation responsible for national development can operate successfully without the men to carry out the surveys necessary to establish the extent of our mineral resources. The other matters become redundant unless this problem is corrected. I would like to have some assurance from the Minister that some action is being taken to upgrade the level of remuneration to this body of personnel. 
If I recall, during the Estimates Committee hearing we were told that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation did not account to anybody. Subsequently the letter indicated that it accounted to the Auditor-General in a rather limited sense. Although we have received that information I do not accept it. I still make my protest. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
 I believe that  Senator Mulvihill  has another question which he wishes to ask, but I shall interpose with a question in case some information has to be sought by the Minister's advisers! I want to ask the Minister directly a question concerning oil leases in the Great Barrier Reef area. I ask: What has happened to those leases  which are being held in abeyance? What is the number of those leasees? Further 1 want to ask what assistance nas been given by the Department of National Development to the royal commission on the Great Barrier Reef and what assistance is to be given in the future. Also, is. there any . clear indication of that Department's attitude in this direction? Is the advice which the Department is giving to .the royal commission in support of the  drilling or is it against the proposition?. . 
 In order to avoid having to speak later on this, matter, to follow lip my remarks and lb give some advice to the Department through, the Minister' on,, this problem of drilling on the Great Barrier Reef, I refer the Department to the report on off-shore petroleum resources which was tabled earlier iri the day by  Senator Young,'  a report that ' has taken' so much 'investigation and so 'much research before' 'it was compiled and which contains a number of recommendations. May I direct the; Department's attention to one of the recommendations to which. ' I will be referring from lime to time, possibly without number. This is a recommendation which gives me, and all conservationists who have been concerned about the Great Barrier Reef, great heart. The recommendation appears on page 36 of the report, if the rest of the recommendations . are in line with this one then it is an excellent report. The recommendation, which, is a most excellent one from my point of view, as weir as from the point of view of all people who support the protection of the Great Barrier Reef, states: 
That until sufficient information has been gathered and it can be proved beyond reasonable doubt that off-shore exploration for or exploitation of petroleum fields on the Great Barrier Reef or in the waters surrounding the Reef is unlikely to. cause' damage to the Reef and ils marine life, appropriate legislative action should be taken to prohibit exploration for and exploitation nf petroleum in the province area of the Great Barrier Reef. " 
The recommendation refers to paragraph 13.55. I repeat:  . . appropriate legislative action be taken to prohibit exploration for and exploitation of petroleum in the province area of the Great Barrier Reef. 
The province area of the Great Barrier Reef extends almost 1,200 miles down the Queensland coast and in some places it reaches out 170 miles from the coast. I ask the Department to keep this recommendation in mind. There will be considerable pressure for the implementation of the legislation which this Committee report recommends. I have asked this series of questions,  Mr Minister:  How many leases; what is happening to those leases; what support has been given to the Royal Commission and in what way; and in future will the Department consider this excellent recommendation which suggests that there be no oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef until such time as the necessary research has been carried out to prove such oil drilling to be safe to the area?. 
I would very much like to support  Senator Cavanagh  but I may be tempted to refer to an extraordinary document which has been circulated - it might widen this debate - called 'Inquiry into the Salaries and Allowances of Members of the Commonwealth Parliament*. But at this late stage 1 resist the temptation. 1 merely take up a point which I have raised on the Estimates each year. It relates to expenditure under Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Division 459, Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and it shows an allocation of $4,370,000. I have pointed out similar conditions on previous occasions, and I point out again, that for the previous year, when an allocation of $3,597,000 was made, exactly that amount was expended. This appropriation is presented to the Parliament without any accountability whatsoever. 1 feel, as a member of Estimates Committee A, that we were not as astute as were members of Estimates Committee B which made a comment in its report to the Senate and which the Senate subsequently supported. In its report the Committee referred to a statutory corporation. I would say that the Security Organisation has been virtually placed in the position of a corporation - aside from this Parliament. The Committee clearly stated: 
The Committee is of the opinion that whilst it may be argued that these bodies are not accountable through the responsible Minister of State to Parliament for day to day operations, Statutory Corporations may be called to account by Parliament itself at any time and that there are no areas of expenditure of public funds where these corporations have a discretion to withhold details or explanations from Parliament or its Committees unless the Parliament has expressly provided otherwise. 
Even allowing for that last section I would say that there is no justification whatever in peacetime for the Government to maintain a position in which the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation can receive an increased allocation this year which takes its appropriation to $4,370,000 without the Government making some statement to this Parliament as to how the money is to be spent. In war time there may be a case for secrecy. There is certainly no case in peace time and in our present position for the withholding of information of this sort. I take this opportunity to protest again strongly at the attitude of the Government in refusing to account for the expenditure of this department. What is more, I further disapprove of the action of the Government in continuing to refuse to answer questions concerning the Australian Intelligence Security Organisation which do not infringe - if one looks at the questions from a security point of view - upon the peace and welfare of this nation. I make this protest again. I asked questions during the Estimates Committee hearing but they were by-passed and parried. Again F ask: Why no accountability; why no information in this very important area of expenditure? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (10.57) -  Senator Georges  was a member of Estimates Committee A. If he turns to the documents accompanying the report of Estimates Committee A he will find a letter which I sent to the Committee through its  Chairman.  It is reproduced and every honourable senator would have a copy of it. 
Yes, I have read the letter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
It is true that, despite intensive investigation, no evidence has been found to implicate the Mataungan Association of New Britain in the murder of District Commissioner  Mr J.  Emanuel? If so, will the Minister make an immediate and unequivocal statement clearing the Association of complicity in this crime. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Will the Minister make available a copy of the summary of recommendations by Professor R. Salisbury in relation to the Gazelle Peninsula of New Britain? 
Were any of Professor Salisbury's recommendations acceptable to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea Administration? 
Does the Minister agree with a statement by Professor Salisbury, reported in the Sydney Morning Herald of 30th August 1971, that he was convinced that the Tolai leaders were progressive men? If so, why is the Administration unable to reach agreement with the Mataungan Association? 
Does the statement on 30th September 1971 by  Mr T.  Newman, the  Deputy  Administrator of the Territory, that the Administrator's Executive Council considers the first priority to be a political settlement, imply dissolution of the Mataungan Association? If not, what does it mean? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Did the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 3rd September 1971 report a statement by  Mr Oscar  Tammur, M.H.A., for Kokopo on the Gazette Peninsula, New Britain, that he had been told police were forcing people, at gun-point, to pay taxes to the Local Government Council? If so, does the Minister agree that it is the responsibility of an elected member of the Territory of Papua New Guinea House of Assembly to make known matters of this nature. 
Did the Secretary for Law in the Territory,  Mr L.  J. Curtis, tell the House of Assembly that  Mr Tammur's  statement would be investigated and, if it was found to be untrue, a careful examination would be made to ascertain whether  Mr Tammur  had infringed any laws of the Territory? If so, has  Mr Curtis  carried out such an examination, and what was its outcome? 
Was the statement by  Mr Curtis  a threat to and intimidation of, an elected member of the House of Assembly, and was it designed to prevent  Mr Tammur  from discharging his responsibilities? 
Did  Mr Tammur's  patronage of the 
Mataungan Association in any way influence  Mr Curtis  in making his statement to the House of Assembly? 
I did not believe that I would be coming to the assistance of the crew of the Canadian Pacific Airlines aircraft because honourable senators will recall that 1 asked a series of questions concerning the experienced international air crews landing at Mascot airport. However, I am forced to do this because of the remarks of  Senator Sim.  I have not had the advantage of the advice of the Pilots Federation, nor have 1 had the advantage of the advice of people who may be close to  Senator Sim.  I am not being critical in saying that. I proposed the report merely because I felt at the time that there was a deliberate attempt on the part of the report to apportion blame 3 ways, lt seemed to me that it was the responsibility of the Department of Civil Aviation, being implicated in the accident, to have sought a separate inquiry to free itself at least of the charge that it may have sought to lessen its own responsibility. The purpose of this debate at this late hour of the night is to seek a separate inquiry. I am not as yet convinced that the Department of Civil Aviation's Air Safety Investigation Branch is not the organisation that should investigate aircraft accidents. But I do think that when the DCA itself is involved it would be of benefit to it to vacate the field and have a separate inquiry. 
Having spoken to a pilot friend of mine who has had considerable experience and having looked at the evidence and gone carefully through the various sections of the report, I have reached the conclusion that no blame is attached to the pilot of the Trans-Australia Airlines flight. There does not seem to be any ground whatsoever to attach any blame to Captain James, the pilot of the TAA flight. Although the Canadian Pacific air crew was guilty of some error, it was nevertheless the prime responsibility of the control tower personnel to see that the runway w;».s clear before the instruction was given to the TAA flight to take off, bearing in mind that the Canadian Pacific aircraft was an aircraft which was completing an international journey, which was arriving late at night at a strange airport in bad weather. It should have received the courtesy that is normally extended to overseas aircraft landing at a strange aerodrome in bad weather. If I may, I would like to state what is my opinion. As my notes are full and fairly cohesive, perhaps the Senate will agree to them being incorporated in Hansard. lt would save time if they were. 
It is my opinion that the Boeing 727 aircraft VH-TJA was cleared for take-off on the duty runway  -  R16  -  before the aerodrome controller had positively established bv all the means available to him that the DC8 aircraft CF-CPQ, which had just landed from an international flight, had vacated the runway in accordance with his prior instructions for it to do so. The Issuing of a take-off clearance under these circumstances at night in conditions of fluctuating visibility and relying solely on visual observation of the position of CFCPQ amounts, in my opinion, to grave neglect of an elementary duty on the part of the aerodrome controller. 
They are my comments. The consequence of this neglect put the lives of hundreds of people and millions of dollars worth of property to a degree of risk which is unacceptable. Later on in my notes I have developed certain arguments and I have quoted from and indicated sections of the report. As it would take me quite some time to put my case, 1 would like to incorporate the rest of my notes in Hansard, if it is in order,  Mr President. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Will the Territory of Papua New Guinea security and intelligence service maintain surveillance of elected members of the Territory House of Assembly and of members of the Mataungan Association. 
I second the amendment and I wish to speak briefly to it. I speak at this point because I do not wish to enter the debate in the Committee stage in view of the lateness of the hour. I protest strongly against the action of the Government in bringing forward this legislation before the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse has been dealt with by the Senate. When such an important report as this or such an important report as the air pollution report is brought down in the Senate, provision should be made for it to be debated as soon as possible. It is alarming that this excellent report which took so much preparation finished up at the bottom of the notice paper. Unless pressure is brought to bear there will be no debate on the recommendations in the report. 
If the report had been considered the Senate would have been in a better position to debate the Bill and would have been aware of the dangers of drug abuse. I feel that perhaps the Department of Customs and Excise, in its zeal, supported by the sometimes misguided enthusiasm of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  introduced the Bill, especially a certain section of it, before the Senate had time to consider the report and the views of the members of the Committee. I do not wish to enter into a debate about the dangers of the various drugs which are involved in the area of drug abuse in this country. I think this point was well expressed by  Senator Cavanagh  in the brief time that he had available to him, but other members of the Committee could add to his contribution. A perusal of the report would be necessary if the dangers of drug abuse were to be debated fully and if we were to be enlightened on the drugs which are abused, the dangers of particular drugs and the scale of the dangers of the drugs. 
The part of the Bill which disturbs me greatly is the part which confers the extra power which the Department is seeking in order to control the misuse of drugs. The seeking of this power was first indicated to the Committee in a submission by the Department of Customs and Excise, which stated that the Department considered that an answer to this problem could be legally to deem all drugs of dependence to be imported drugs unless the defendant proved to the contrary. The reaction of the Committee members at that time was not favourable to the proposition put by the Department. Members of the Committee were strongly opposed to an expedient power being given to the Department to enable it to invade the province of the State enforcement authorities. It seemed to us to he a power for the convenience of the Department, without consideration of the rights of the individual. We were also concerned about the confusion brought to the drug scene, as we term it, by marihuana being equated with the hard narcotic drugs. The statement made in evidence by one of the officers was that although he could express no official opinion on marihuana it was on the hard drug list and, being on that list, as a law enforcement officer he was bound to carry out the law. 
What consequences flow from this? The Bill gives to the Department of Customs and Excise the power to take penal action against those found in possession of a hard drug, including marihuana. The consequences which flow from that are in direct contradiction of the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. I strongly support the Opposition's proposal that the Bill be withdrawn, that the report of the Committee be debated and that the Bill be introduced in a re-drafted form. The dangers 
Inherent in the Bill could bring us to the point that has been reached in the United States of America where the attempt to control the use of marihuana creates greater social problems than the use of the drug. The exceptional penal powers that the Department of Customs and Excise is seeking will inflict hardships upon people, young people in particular, and in turn upon the whole of society. Can honourable senators imagine the power which a customs man will have on special warrant to enter a home - it could be a joint raid with the police - because of information received and, in many cases not revealed? This has happened on many occasions. He can enter premises and invade the privacy of individuals. If it is a joint raid, the individuals within that home are exposed to penalties under State law. The introduction of this Bill is a convenient expedient which can infringe considerably upon the liberties of the individual in this country. This matter will be taken up by one of my colleagues in the Committee stage so let me just express my strong opposition to and fears about this legislation being introduced at this late stage without proper consideration being given to it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What public political education has the Minister directed to be implemented in the Territory of Papua New Guinea in order to enable the people of the Territory to choose, intelligently, their own political structure. 
Does such education include the sympathetic presentation of the principles of socialism; if not, why. 
Does the Mataungan Association reject the capitalist, free enterprise system as unsuitable for the emerging nation of Papua New Guinea; if so. is this the reason for the Administration's punitive actions against the Association. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was the request for Australian military advisers for the Cambodian forces received as early as April 1971. 
When did 
the Prime Minister, 
the Minister for Defence, 
the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and 
the Minister for the Army become aware of the request for the first time. 
Yes. 
(a) 7th April 1971. 
8th April 1971. 
2nd April 1971. 
As the approach was declined by Ministers on policy grounds, the question of the availability of Australian Army instructors did not arise. 
Thank you,  Mr President,  for your welcome. I must say that, during my absence, the acoustics of the chamber have improved, but the performance of the Government has not. I ask a question of the Minister for Health. Is it correct, as reported, that the name of a drug which may be linked with deformities in babies is to be withheld by the Commonwealth Department of Health? Can the Minister justify the right of his Department to withhold such knowledge from a woman who may have used the drug? Is it not the right of such a woman to have this information so that she may take what action she thinks fit? Is there not a danger that such a woman may continue to take the drug and risk the consequences? 
The honourable senator has returned from a foreign land and therefore he will not be aware of the circumstances with which we were confronted possibly a month or 6 weeks ago. 
Let me refer to what happened yesterday. My understanding is that  Dr McBride,  who is a world figure and who was the doctor involved with the reference to imipramine which was the drug considered previously, informed the Secretary of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee of the birth in Sydney at the weekend of a child with a reduction deformity of one limb. The Secretary of the Committee acquainted the Committee with the details of  Dr McBride's  report. The matter is being considered in the normal way by that Committee, as is its function. At this time, no judgment can be made. No announcement has been made by me about the name of the drug; nor do 1 intend to announce its name. But I know that the Committee will treat this matter as of the same importance and with the same urgency with which it dealt with the other matter. Until this matter is resolved - and it will be resolved quickly - we would not wish to cause tremendous concern, upset, anxiety and worry to the many, many people who may be using the drug. 

 Dr Mc Bride has not said this is the result of the use of a certain drug. He has had the matter referred to the special committee against the background of what happened previously in relation to another drug, when the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee did not confirm the judgments that  Dr McBride  had made. In fairness to  Dr McBride,  I should say that he did not make judgments even in relation to that other drug but had it referred to the Committee because it might have had implications. We must always remember - and 1 am sure  Senator Turnbull  would agree with this if he were here - that hundreds and hundreds of years before we had drugs of this nature there were certain deformities in kiddies. So, for goodness sake, let us not blow this matter up in the way that one of the media blew it up this morning. Let us handle it properly. The media this morning, with one exception, showed excellent restraint. I ask honourable senators opposite to give us the chance to do the things that in all humanity we want to do. For God's sake, do not start to create fear and fright in the hearts and minds of thousands of womenfolk and parents. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior a question which follows on from a question asked by  Senator Wheeldon.  I inform the Minister that the person in possession of the televising equipment and the recording equipment at the demonstration was a member of the Police Force. He indicated that to me. Will the Minister take into account that this practice, which is admitted by the Police Force, would intimidate those people who wanted to take an interest in what those miners had to say today and could intimidate any person who wished to attend this or any peaceful demonstration? Can the Minister seek a statement from the Minister for the Interior as to the new policy on both televising and recording of demonstrations? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories. Is he aware of an application by Ansett-Airlines of Australia Ltd to become the sole airline operator in Papua New Guinea? Will he tell the Senate who will deal with such an application and who will make the decision? Can the Senate be assured that the Australian Government will not support such a proposition and that the rights of Trans-Australia Airlines to entry and operation in Papua New Guinea will be protected? 
Following on from a question asked by  Senator Gair  I now ask: Is the Attorney-General aware that in the petrol war now being waged in Brisbane petrol companies have threatened to refuse supplies to those distributors who do not lower their prices? Is this a breach of the recent Act against resale price maintenance? If so, what action is the Attorney-General prepared to take to prevent this type of intimidation? 
I seek an assurance from the Government that, if we are prepared to allow the incorporation of second reading speeches, they will be incorporated also on the days when the proceedings of this chamber are broadcast. This would ensure that second reading speeches are not read on some days while on others, when the Government is able to transmit its message to the public - despite the fact that it might be repeating what was said in another place - the second reading speeches are read. Therefore, if we are to accept incorporation on days when there is no broadcast, the Government should accept that the practice be applied to all sitting days. As to the limitation of 2 hours being applied to the debate on committee reports- 
That explanation satisfies what was to be my next complaint: that is, that 2 hours would be insufficient for a debate on a particular report. I now understand that a report could be debated on, say, 4 different days. 
Murphy's motion relates to the proceedings of the Senate on a Thursday. The proceedings of the Senate are not usually broadcast on that day. As I have already indicated, the Government is willing, on that particular day, subject to the approval of the Senate, to incorporate in Hansard second reading speeches or Ministerial statements. I think I can give an assurance that it will be the Government's endeavour on the other days to try to get over the problem to which  Senator Gair  referred by incorporating material wherever possible. There will be instances, as I have already indicated, of statements being made concurrently in the two Houses. These could not bc incorported in Hansard in this chamber. I shall draw  Senator Georges'  comments to the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in an endeavour to get confirmation of the point he has made. 
While I am on my feet I would like to point out that there is one other point which the Government wants to make in indicating its support of  Senator Murphy's  motion as amended. The Government's support of the motion, as amended, is without prejudice to the Leader of the Government being able to move, whenever appropriate, that Government Buisness take precedence over all Senate and General Business on Thursdays. 
My question which is directed to the Attorney-General may bear on a question asked by  Senator Turnbull.  What stage has been reached by the Bland Committee in its examination of those numerous discretions which are available to Commonwealth departments through the various statutes and regulations and which, if exercised arbitrarily, can and do affect the rights of the citizens? 
I can understand the difficulty of the Australian Country Party senators in supporting this Bill because their brief is a difficult one. I can understand also the performance which they have put up in support of the situation, the situation being that Queensland, after many years of reasonable government, good government, under the Australian Labor Party, found itself under the control of a Courty Party-Liberal Government which over a period of 15 years has so mismanaged the affairs of the State that it had to make application to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for assistance. In other words, for the first time Queensland has become a mendicant State, a claimant State. As one honourable senator said earlier, in a way it has had to concede to the Commonwealth its sovereignty and the power to operate and to develop the State economically. So members of the Country Party have had a very difficult brief and have found the going hard tonight. 
Of course, we support the Bill and the proposal that Queensland should receive the $9m because of the position in which it finds itself. What we strongly object to is that Queensland may have to make similar claims year after year if it continues to be governed by this strange coalition of the Country Party in the ascendancy and the Liberal Party in the minority, a combination which is even worse than the combination of the Liberal Party in the ascendancy and the Country Party in the minority which is the situation in this place. In Queensland we have in effect a backwoods government, a frontier type government; nothing more or less than that. In fact Queensland is now known in the southern States as the Deep North because of the reactionary policies and the reactionary behaviour of the Queensland Premier, and the rather irrational positions which he adopts from time to time on ali sorts of important matters, both State and Federal. 
As one travels through Queensland one sees the effect of 15 years rule by the Country-Liberal Party Government. One can see the slow degeneration of provincial and country towns; the slow depopulation of country centres; the slow breakdown of country areas and the falling away of the rural population. This has happened and is happening because the Queensland Government has not used effectively the means available to it to raise the money which is necessary and which is available to make Queensland the richest State in the Commonwealth. lt could still be the richest State in the Commonwealth but it cannot survive mismanagement, and mismanagement is the trouble. This has been explained by  Senator McAuliffe  and  Senator Milliner,  and in some ways they have been supported by Country Party senators sitting opposite. There has been mismanagement and it will continue. The flourishing towns of Bundaberg and Marborough 
 I did say that and I said it clearly. If  Senator Little  wants  10  interject intelligently he should listen to what 1 say. He has not been listening; he just makes a snide remark every now and again.  Senator Maunsell  indicated that Queensland was subject to natural calamities to a far greater extent than the other States. He indicated that because of this Queensland was in a position of need. I would like to point out to  Senator Maunsell  something which appeared in the appropriation papers. He should take careful note of this. This fact was pointed out by  Mr Crean  in the other place and I would like  Senator Maunsell  to answer it. If there was great need for drought relief in Queensland, why did not the Queensland Government take advantage of all the Commonwealth money that was available at that time? It did not do so. 
At page 46 of the Treasury Information Paper entitled 'Statement of Savings Expected in Appropriations' it is shown that S3. 6m had been set aside in the Budget for drought assistance for Queensland. Now we are told that $2. 2m of that sum is to be saved because the Queensland Government did not take up all the money that was made available by the Commonwealth Government. Yet  Senator Maunsell  had the audacity to stand up and say that the situation was so bad in Queensland that greater expenditure was needed and therefore Queensland finds itself in a position of financial need. Millions of dollars were available in the form of Commonwealth assistance. The money had been allocated and the Queensland Government did not take it up. 
-Certainly;  Senator Byrne  raised the matter and the point ought to be made again. Mismanagement on the part of the coalition government in Queensland resulted in this money not being taken up. Recently the Commonwealth Government told the Queensland Government that it would make money available on a dollar for dollar basis for reconstruction purposes in cyclone devastated Townsville. Money was available without limit on a dollar for dollar basis. Yet at the present time there are many, many people without homes in Townsville. There are still many homes in Townsville that are covered with tarp aulins. There are still many, many families living in caravans in Townsville. In effect. many people are still victims of the cyclone. The Federal Government made that arrangement on a dollar for dollar basis, without limit, and the Queensland Government did not take advantage of it. For drought relief the Queensland Government would have received 50c for every $1 used for this purpose. In effect, Queensland would have received cheap dollars from the Commonwealth Government. Is this not mismanagement on the part of the Queensland Government and should not this point be driven home? 
It is useless to say that the Queensland Government has a case for the allocation of $9m. We of the Opposition say that if the Queensland Government had carefully husbanded its resources this application would not have been necessary. If the application was not necessary and it had not been made the Queensland Government would remain in full control of its economic position. This is no longer the case because the Grants Commission has made some very damning statements about Queensland. If the present Queensland Government is returned to office there will be another application to the Commonwealth Grants Commission and 'he Commission will lay down certain conditions, lt will say that there are certain incomeraising areas that can be exploited by the Queensland Government and they ought to be exploited. At that point the Queensland free hospital scheme may well come under threat, lt will be said that as Queensland has become a claimant State it no longer can afford a free hospital scheme, that the hospitals should be used as a means of gaining some income. I would say that the Country-Liberal Party Queensland Government - if it survives on 27th May - will succumb to this pressure. 
I will repeat what I said for the benefit of  Senator Webster  who has suddenly decided to listen. The Grants Commission will point out to the Queensland Government that there are certain revenue-raising areas available to it and that it should take advantage of them. One of those areas is the free hospital scheme. If Queensland continues to be a claimant State the Grants Commission will say that Queensland cannot afford a free hospital scheme. 
That has happened already in Tasmania, as  Senator Poke  points out. I am pointing out to  Senator Webster  that under such pressure and the influence of such arguments it is possible that the Queensland people will lose their free hospital scheme. 
1 am not in a position to answer that question about the Tasmanian Government. 1 am not certain of what will happen there, but I am certain that for quite some time the free hospital scheme in Queensland has been under threat. I would say that at the first opportunity, under pressure, the Country-Liberal Party coalition Government will impose charges and that will be the beginning of the end for a scheme which has served Queenslanders well for many years. 
The Grants Commission also rather savagely criticised the failure of the Queensland Government to extract revenue which is available in the form of royalties. For the sake of the record and for the benefit of  Senator Maunsell  I propose to read some information which I have related to coal. I will not deal with other matters. According to the Minister for Mines, and Main Roads,  Mr Camm,  the estimated production of export coal in Queensland in 1970-71 amounted to 7.25 million tons and it was valued at $83. 4m. This was reported in the 'Telegraph* of 9th March 1971. The total amount of royalties paid for coal in 1970-71 was $362,500, or 0.43 per cent. For every $100 worth of coal exported, Queensland receives a miserable pittance of 43c, or 5c a ton. That figure has been used time and time again. 
I point out to the Senate how this affects every other State in the Commonwealth, and in particular New South Wales. In the export of mineral resources the Commonwealth is only as strong as the weakest State. In this situation of the exporting of mineral resources I would say that Queensland is the weakest State.  II  is the weakest in its bargaining attempts in the arranging and signing of contracts. In being weak in its arrangements with overseas buyers it affects every other supplier of coal in Australia. The fact that we are selling some of the finest coking coal in Australia to Japan at so low a price and at so low a royalty has resulted in the closing down of some mines in New South Wales. This is the end result of poor bargaining on the part of one State government. 
The inability of the Queensland Government to serve the interests of the Queensland people and the Australian people in arranging and signing these contracts, or its inability to bargain effectively, has had a direct result on the employment possibilities of miners in New South Wales. Several very profitable operations in New South Wales have had to be closed down. I think it would be reasonable to expect that the Commonwealth Government and the New South Wales Government should bring pressure to bear on the Queensland Government to become a member of the Joint Coal Board. The Queensland Government has refused to become a member of the Joint Coal Board and to become part of a national fuel policy. This is desperately needed, lt is desperately needed in order to protect our bargaining position in the sale of our valuable mineral resources. While we sell coal to Japan cheaply, I ask honourable senators to realise this: Japan has closed down her mines. She has done this for another reason. She has closed them down to conserve her own coal resources. Why should Japan develop and use her own mines when she can buy coal so cheaply from Australia and stockpile it in great quantities? In fact, Japan is stockpiling coal in her inlets and sounds so that she can use it in time of need and cut out the purchasing from Australia. 
Nevertheless, some of the finest coking coal is being exported from Queensland with the connivance of the Queensland Government. I say 'connivance' because it can be nothing less than this. It is with the connivance of the Queensland Government that some of our finest coal is being given away. It is affecting the position of other mines in Australia and the livelihood of miners in the south. For this reason I think the Federal Government ought to take a keen interest in any future contracts which the Queensland Government undertakes with overseas concerns. It is in the national interest that no State should undersell another State. That is exactly what is happening. 
One of the Country Party senators made out a great case in regard to the enormous profit that we are making from coal haulage. But there is very little profit made there. The freight charged to haul a ton of coal from Moura to Gladstone is Si. 58. Perhaps a profit is made in that SI. 58 because of the immense quantity of coal which is being exported. But it is to the disadvantage of every other freight transporter in Queensland. For instance, to transport a ton of groceries from Brisbane to Gladstone costs S56. In fact, it costs almost 2c per lb to transport any commodity from Brisbane to Gladstone. It costs $56 a ton to transport goods 300 miles by rail. If we multiply the $1.58 charged for the transport of a ton of coal between Moura and Gladstone by 3, to allow for the shorter distance, the figure obtained is nowhere near $56 a ton. 
This is what happens in this famous State of Queensland that is prepared to charge low freight rates to overseas concerns and high freights to Queenslanders. Not only is the transport charge high on groceries and other commodities that are necessities to the towns to the north of Brisbane, but also the cost of transporting wheat in Queensland is 5 times as much as the amount charged for the transport of coal for foreign companies. The whole position is screwy. It just does not stand up tinder scrutiny. Any reasonable person who looks at the arrangements that the Queensland Government has made will know that that Government has been negligent. If we do not say it, the Commonwealth Grants Commission will say it. In fact, it has already said it. An avenue for income is available here which would be sufficient to obviate the need to make an application to the Commission. 
In regard to bauxite we find that the Queensland Government is making arrangements for its sale at a lower rate than that at which it is being sold in the Northern Territory or Western Australia. The position is that one State is underselling the other State to the advantage of the overseas and multi-national corporations and to the disadvantage of Australia. Those corporations will continue to buy from Queensland and they will use Queensland as a weapon in bargaining with the other States. If the price in Queensland is too low the pressure will be on the Northern Territory and Western Australia to lower their charges to the overseas concerns. We have become the greatest suppliers of our raw materials at an extremely low price, and Queensland leads the way. We have become the quarriers, and not the manufacturers or the processors. The sooner we get to that stage, the better. Great play was made about the development of towns and the employment of workers in various places. Let me make this clear: At the gigantic alumina works in Gladstone the only income which flows to the Australian nation at the present time is the income tax charged on the workers' wages. Do not let me hear anything about the 50 per cent we are receiving in the form of tax on company profits. We do not receive it. The companies do not show a profit. I will not say that they produce their product and sell it to their overseas branches at cost to avoid paying tax in Australia. If they have and if they are- 
You tell me the last time Comalco Ltd paid income tax? Will you tell me exactly how much that company paid in company tax and how much the Commonwealth derived from that? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Georges,  please address the Chair. 
It will be found that the statement I make is accurate. The only income that flows to the Commonwealth from that area and some of the other mining areas for the benefit of Australia is the income tax that is earned on the workers' wages. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Yes, I do mind. 
He can interrupt as much as he wishes. We have other examples in Queensland and elsewhere in Australia of cases in which very little flows to Australia from very rich deposits of mineral resources. 1 remind honourable senators that at Mount Morgan all that is left is the homes of the miners and the graves of the miners who died from miners phthisis. Very little else is left at Mount Morgan where millions of dollars worth of minerals were extracted. Very little indeed flowed back to that area. We have not even the brains of the small nations in the Middle East. If honourable senators opposite had watched a recent television programme about Kuwait they would know that the people there have made arrangements for a 50 per cent royalty to flow back to them. But not us, 5c a ton will do us. Without question, we are the worst bargaining nation in the world. We do not have the brains to make certain that we get a good deal. 
I am speaking for the Government. At least I have the charity to include myself in the result which flows from the faulty policies of the present Government. 
Other means of income could flow to the Queensland Government. Many avenues of income arc available to it of what it takes no advantage. Some of these avenues were pointed out by  Senator McAuliffe.  Although  Senator Maunsell  began to ridicule  Senator McAuliffe  for raising the matter of gambling in Queensland, let me point out- 
He did that while you were absent from the chamber. He indicated that you had no right to introduce extraneous matters concerning bookmakers in Queensland. He reflected on the statement that you made about- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! Will the honourable senator please address the Chair? He is inviting interjections. 
I am sorry if I am taking advantage of your leniency,  Mr Deputy President. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! I 
Jm trying to help the honourable senator because he is inviting irrelevant and other interjections. 
I am sorry that if, by being irrelevant, I have invited irrelevant remarks. I was bringing the matter back  to  something that was brought into the debate by  Senator Maunsell  when he ridiculed what I considered to be a fair statement by  Senator McAuliffe.  I think all honourable senators will agree that in  Senator McAuliffe  we have gained a new stylist. He has a new method of speaking which is refreshing when we consider that we have had to put up with quite a deal from honourable senators opposite for many years. 
I am not stonewalling. It is not my intention to keep on talking tonight. I am coming to the point. In Queensland there has been a considerable turnover in gambling through the organised, shall we term it, respectable and now legal method used by the Government to achieve revenue - the TAB. 
Yes. Yet there is a paradox. In spite of the tremendous turnover  on  the TAB, in Brisbane starting price betting is at the highest level that it has ever been. That means that a huge volume  of  betting is taking place upon which no tax is paid. 
This is what it has to do with the Bill: Queensland has placed itself in the position of being a claimant State asking for $9m because it is in a position of financial need. We are pointing out that that situation should not be. We are pointing out that, having claimed once and having received once, it should not claim again. If the Queensland Government managed its affairs properly there would not be any need to ask for $9m.  Senator Wood's  town of Mackay, if 1 might point out- 
The city of Mackay would not be in the condition that it is in now if it had not been for the Country Party-Liberal Government of Queensland. Even  Senator Wood  would be prepared to admit that at present the town of Mackay is not the flourishing town that it was 10 years ago. The national growth rate is 6 per cent. If that rate were spread over Australia, in 13 years the economy and position of each town would double what it was 13 years previously. I defy  Senator Wood  to say that Mackay is twice as prosperous as it was 13 years ago. I know that Mackay is a city but I like to call it a town. In Queensland, they are alt towns. 'Town* is a nice name; 'city' is sometimes a pretension. Nevertheless, the city of Mackay is in the same position as are other cities. It is in need; it has a higher level of unemployment than it should have, and its general condition is not as prosperous as it was under a Labor government.  Senator Wood  cannot deny that. Let me return to the point that 1 was making. There is a source of revenue- 
Under a Labor government, name it what you will. All I can say - it has been said here previously - is that the Gair Government was bad but that a Country Party-Liberal government is considerably worse. That has been proven in Queensland. The source of revenue which is available to the Queensland Government, as the Treasurer knows, is the turnover tax which could be obtained if there were proper controls over racing. What  Senator McAuliffe  said earlier, that a clique is endeavouring to control and monopolise gambling in Brisbane and Queensland, is correct. Not only does it have a considerable say in the methods which are used through the legalised gambling, but it has considerable control over and operates at quite a significant level the SP betting upon which no tax is paid. There has been evidence recently - the Government has had evidence and it has taken no action on it - that bookmakers do not put in correct returns so there is a considerable loss of income from this source. 
Even the registered ones are not putting in correct returns. Recently in Brisbane there was a court case in which a bookmaker sued a client for not paying a debt. When the case came to court and the client pointed out that he had paid his debt, it was found that the bookmaker had not registered that transaction. Many other transactions are not registered, and tax is not paid on them. As  Senator McAuliffe  has pointed out, in Queensland there is a great need for an investigation into all the ramifications of betting and gambling to make certain that there is no loss of revenue to the State. We are saying and making it clear that there is mismanagement in Queensland. There is mismanagement by the Country Party-Liberal Government. It is of no use for that Government to cry out about other issues such as law and order, and to bring all kinds of extraneous issues into the election campaign. The Government should keep very closely to the issues and make certain that the people are fully aware of the political issues, not the emotional issues. 
The cost of living in Queensland is getting progressively higher. Opportunities for Queensland are becoming less. Let me make a point concerning Gladstone, a town upon which the Queensland Government depends so much. I was there only recently. No-one knows what its future will be. There has been no information, no arrangements, no discussions, and no date set for the building of the smelter at Gladstone. A great smeleter was to be built there. 
It does not need a new Federal member. This is a State responsibility. Let me make this point: The Federal Government has made money available for the construction of a power station there. It was supposed to be a 4- unit power station to supply the smelter. It has been cut down to 2 units. The latest report is that it will be cut down to one unit. In other words, it will be a ninor power station. Yet there has been no announcement by the Queensland Government. The Queensland Government has a responsibility to make known to the people of Gladstone what will happen there. Noone knows. Dow Chemical (Aus.) Ltd was supposed to set up a caustic soda plant there. The authorities at Gladstone - the Gladstone Harbour Board, the Gladstone Town Council and other authorities - have not heard from Dow Chemical for over a year. What will happen at Gladstone? Will Dow Chemical build its plant there, or has it forgotten about that? Is the smelter to be built at Gladstone? The talk is that it will not be built there because of the overproduction of alumina throughout the world. 
Is the power station to be built at Gladstone? We do not know. Where is the progress that the Country Party and Liberal Party Government boasts of in Queensland? We should be given certain information about Gladstone and other places but we are not given it. The only achievement at Gladstone is the sale of our raw material at a very low price. Go north to Weipa and see our tremendous bauxite resources there. We have the facility only to export and a promise that we may build a smelter at Weipa. It is said that there may be some development; we may have this and we may have that. The Country Party and Liberal Party Government has been in office in Queensland for 15 years. The Federal Government in its transactions with Queensland should take account of the chances of the Queensland Government's continuing in office. We hope that it will not after 27th May. 
It may be a pious hope but I invite  Senator Lawrie  to study the electoral boundaries in Queensland. He will discover that it takes about 5,000 or 6,000 people to elect a Country Party representative and about 20,000 people to elect a Labor Party or Liberal Party representative. 
Quite apart from my arithmetic, does  Senator Lawrie  want me in a future debate to cite the relevant figures and the methods used to gerrymander the Queensland electorate, where the Country Party' considers that one vote should not have one value? 
It is of no use for  Senator Bonner  to talk on this subject. 
I have said before, and  Senator Webster  can read il in my earlier speeches, that to achieve an effective and representative system of government that is responsive to the will of the people it is necessary with speedy communications and modern methods of travel to have a voting system of one vote one value, lt is of no use for the Country Party to talk about anything else. It does not believe in one vote one value. It believes that a Country Party vote should have double the value of an urban vote. To my mind that is reprehensible. The Country Party has no right to demand that a vote for its representatives should have twice the value of a vote for urban candidates. 
I would agree that with modern means of transportation and communication more seats and less responsibility may be desirable, but it seems to me that the principle of one vote one value cannot be departed from. 
There is the proportional method. I would prefer to support a proportional method of election for all places, rather than the method that the Queensland Government is imposing upon the people. 
I am saying that I would prefer the proportional method which, incidentally, would bring true value to every vote. That may be an ideal situation, but there is a difficulty with the proportional method of representation. (Honourable senators interjecting) - 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! 
I have been sidetracked,  Mr Deputy President,  and I would be pleased if you would bring me back to the Bill. In any case, I would say that on 27th May next there is a fair chance of a change in the government in Queensland. I would say that there is need for a change. 
It may be wishful thinking, but 1 do not think Queensland deserves the reputation that it has earned under the present State Government, especially under the leadership of the present Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. 
He is strong in his own interests. 
One hears strange definitions of honesty. 
Nevertheless under the leadership of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  Queensland has not advanced.  His  Government has not served the best interests of the Queensland people. Proof of the neglect of the Queensland Government is to be found in its failure to state a proper case when applying to the Commonwealth each year for assistance. 
Further examples can be found in the special report for 1972 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, lt contains severe and substantial criticisms of the Queensland Government's actions. Proof of the shallow approach to matters of importance adopted by the Queensland Government can be found in the papers accompanying the supplementary Budget. They contain an appropriation for the royal commission on the Great Barrier Reef. The Federal Government will spend about $ 50,000 on the inquiry into whether oil drilling represents a threat to the future of the Reef. I imagine that that royal commission will cost close on $lm before it completes its investigations and produces its report. How much has the Queensland Government contributed to it to date? Not one penny. Yet the Queensland Government has expended many thousands of dollars in supporting a case for the drilling. Reports on the royal commission indicate that the Queensland Government has expended many dollars on legal expenses and the supply of exports in support of the Queensland Department of Mines proposition that oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef is safe. 
My lime has expired and I have no doubt that I have suitably embarrassed honourable senators opposite. There is a reason for it, as senators may understand by now. I reiterate that there really is no necessity for such an application by Queensland, lt is the greatest State in the Commonwealth in its richness and it is the second in size, lt is a decentralised Slate wilh the potential for greatness, and a climate to match. It has sufficient beauty to develop a tourist industry which will serve it well. There is no need for Queensland to become a claimant State. I think my colleagues will support me when 1 say that Queensland has become a claimant State only because its resources have been mismanaged, lt has suffered from poor government. I hope that this is the last time that we will need to support in the Senate an appropriation of $9m in the circumstances in which this sum is to be supplied. 
May I explain to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who seems now to be handling the Bill, the outrage that Queensland senators feel at the position in which we have been placed and in which Queensland has been placed as a result of his speech. For the first time in its history Queensland has become a claimant State. We express to the Minister the embarrassment that we feel when we hear him state that Queensland now is a lesser State than New South Wales or Victoria. Can he imagine or will he ever be in a position to feel such a humiliation? I doubt if he ever will be. I hope he will not; he comes from the strongest State. But he must appreciate that for the first time Queensland has become a claimant State, with all the consequences which flow from that. It is for this reason that we have entered this debate. 
As Queenslanders we have a right to debate this proposition in this chamber. On many occasions we have listened to honourable senators from Tasmania thrashing out their tribal problems in this chamber. They have a right to do so. For many hours we have listened to honourable senators from South Australia argue the rights and the wrongs of the Chowilla Dam. They had a right to debate that in this chamber because, after all, this is a States House. Honourable senators from Queensland and all other honourable senators have a responsibility to expose the weaknesses which exist in their area of representation. The Minister has no right to criticise Queensland honourable senators for endeavouring to outline the weaknesses of the present Country-Liberal Party Government. That Government because of its in competence has placed Queensland for the first time in the position of being a claimant State. We make no apologies whatsoever to the Minister or to any member of the Government for standing here over the last day and a half and debating points, making points, exposing criticisms and denouncing the Queensland Government and its leaders for incompetency. 
 Senator Webster  refers to an incident which occurred some time ago when many Australians were protesting against the- 
It was not so much that- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! Honourable senators will cease this argument across the chamber. 
The interjections merely disclose the position of honourable senators on the Government side on some very vital issues. I suggest to them that they not raise these matters, because by their doing so we might enter into a debate which might be to their- 
It might lead to  a  debate which will be to their considerable disadvantage. But  Senator Webster  refers to the situation, position or events which occurred in Queensland during the antiapartheid demonstrations. Those demonstrations were caused by the actions of the Queensland Premier, no less, who escalated the protests. 
Yes, it is good to go on the air. The. incident to which the honourable senator refers merely highlights the incompetence of the Queensland Premier who is, as I have explained before,  a  precursor of violence.. 
A precursor is one who is a forerunner. If the honourable senator does not know what precursor means I suggest that he look up the meaning in the dictionary. This Premier of Queensland through his very incompetence, and his failure to assess the situation properly, declared a state of emergency in Queensland. As a result members of the police force who were supposed to be protecting the ordinary citizens against criminals were drawn from all parts of Queensland and brought to Brisbane to supervise and to so-call protect 30 footballers at the Exhibition Grounds. It was an overreaction by a Premier who has no sense of priorities whatsoever. As we have said in this debate, it merely indicates that he and his Government are not a government of sufficient competence to lead Queensland or to in any way fulfil its destiny. I am sorry that J have been in some way sidetracked. At another time I shall take on  Senator Webster  in relation to the matter that he raised. We will see just where the honourable senator stands on apartheid, racialism and what is happening in Vietnam. We will give the honourable, senator an opportunity to get to his feet and explain just where he stands on these issues. 1 reiterate, that we have come into this debate to highlight the feelings of the Opposition, especially Queensland senators, and to press very strong opposition to a government which has brought Queensland to the point of applying as a claimant State, for Federal assistance. As I say, that is the ultimate humiliation. We hope that this does not occur again. I say that the most effective way to see that there is no recurrence of this claim is to see - we trust, that we will see - a change of government in Queensland on the 27th May.  Senator Wood  is the one who mentioned the election. He is the one who claimed that we were electioneering. Since he has brought this matter before the Senate, we hope that on 27th May there will be a change of government in Queensland so that this situation will not recur. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  the report which the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse produced has received widespread circulation. Quite a number of articles and reviews have been written concerning the value of the report. The investigation of the Committee, if it had no other value, had at least this value: lt led, as all other Senate committee investigations have led. to a more enlightened approach by senators in this place. The inquiry enabled senators to investigate in depth the problem which confronts the community. Having investigated that problem, senators may apply their knowledge in debate and in their consideration of legislation. 
The impression gained by members of a Senate committee is not a passing one; the members of this Committee have a lasting impression from their inquiry. Not only do investigations by a Senate select committee in any area of our social problems enlighten the members of the Committee, but those investigations also provide a forum for those people who have knowledge of the subject being investigated. The Senate inquiry provides a platform for them to express their opinions and to present their submissions for discussion in public and for interrogation. By so doing, they stimulate widespread interest in the matter being considered. 
It would be a great pity if this report and its recommendations were merely to pass into the records of this place. It is my suggestion that the Senate keep in mind the desirability of a committee reconvening at some future date - perhaps 2 years after it has brought down a report - to ascertain how many of its recommendations have been carried out, how many of its recommendations have been translated into legislation and what the position is at that time with respect to the problem which it investigated. The tendency is for many of the reports and recommendations coming from Senate committees to be submerged by a swamp of responsibility, that is, by the tremendous amount of legislation which must be passed through this place. That seems to be the natural result. I recommend to the Senate that this report should be investigated again in about a year's time. A precedent exists for this action because a publications committee is investigating a report which was brought down by a joint committee to determine how far the recommendations of that committee have been carried out. 
The recommendations of this Committee are perhaps too general. I make this point because I was responsible for a minority report in which the matter may have been approached more definitely. 1 make no firm criticism here. This Select Committee was an aH-party Committee which approached the same problem from a variety of angles and positions. This must be reflected in the final report. But one or two members of the Committee had more definite views. These views may reflect our philosophical position. The report does make certain general recommendations which ought to be carried out immediately. Some have passed into operation through the Department of Health. One specific recommendation was that $5m should be made available immediately to the States to combat areas of drug abuse which alarmed the Committee. Although, as  Senator McManus  did say, there is no severe drug problem in this country with young people at this time, he meant in effect what the Committee members pointed out in the report, that is, that although no severe overall problem in terms of numbers exists now sufficient young people are being affected as to make the problem serious for them and for their immediate families. 
Yes. A small number of people, especially in the main cities of Australia, have been seriously affected by this drug problem. Families are suffering the side effects of the addiction of their children, especially young children. It is necessary that we quickly make funds available to the authorities and voluntary agencies which exist. It is necessary that we make this money available immediately to support these agencies and to bring immediate assistance to small groups of people who are suffering the physical addiction of some of the hard drugs. I make the appeal to the Government that it consider this recommendation. The spending of  $5m  in a year on prevention could possibly save many dollars in the future. I shall quickly deal with my minority report because time is running out. Maybe other honourable senators who follow may wish to make their points. I disagree with the Committee's conclusion which stated: 
Nor does the Committee sec any value in their being restricted to pharmacies only. 
The Committee was referring to the distribution and sale of minor analgesics. I disagree with this conclusion because, listening to the evidence, I formed the strong opinion that the opposite is correct. This opposite opinion is based on the evidence received by the Committee and, in fact, is supported by the alarming figures quoted in this section of the report. In the Reservations I state: 
Minor analgesics should be available much less freely and the present proliferation of distribution should be limited. Their sale, together with all pharmaceuticals should be the responsibility of pharmacists, through recognised outlets. 
Even recognising the difficulties which other members of the Committee considered and on which they came to a different conclusion I think that it is necessary for us to realise how important is the misuse of analgesics. As  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield said, we are one of the greatest pill takers in the world. I think that we run third. Certain types of kidney diseases are suffered by 1 1 times more people in this country than in the United States of America. On the evidence there seems to be a direct relationship between the widespread misuse of analgesics and kidney disease. At the present time what is happening in the community is that analgesics are subject to impulse selling. A very wide range of methods is being used to promote and sell these analgesics in quantities to the public. Only recently we have learned - it has been announced - that the chain stores now are to come into the field and promote the sale of these analgesics. I think it is necessary that the druggist, the pharmacist or the chemist - call him what you will - should come back to the position of being a druggist and an adviser in this field. He and he alone should be responsible for the distribution of pharmaceuticals which are subject to abuse, as analgesics are subject to abuse. This is not an innovation. Druggists in other countries are druggists and nothing else. They sell neither panty hose, nor cosmetics nor sweets nor other associated merchandise. They are there to sell pharmaceuticals and nothing else. On advertising I state: 
The Committee's recommendation does not go far enough. Sufficient evidence was received to show that the self-regulation of the drug industry was not to be trusted . . . 
I shall not read any more. I merely state that the advertising industry in this country is mainly responsible for the proliferation and the misuse of a wide range of pharmaceuticals. The situation is now worse than it was when the Committee investigated it. Advertising jingles are churned forth in the early morning on television and radio. Certain headache powders are advertised in this manner: Four o'clock traffic jams; six o'clock headache. Take yourself a powder and relieve yourself of that headache. To my mind the advertising of particular headache powders goes beyond the spirit of the Broadcasting and Television Act. I am saying, and I reiterate, that one cannot trust the advertising media. The recommendation which I made that there should be a complete ban on advertising all drugs of dependence is one which I strongly support. The evidence which came before the Committee has been since supported. The advertising agencies of this country are not to be trusted. In fact the section of industry which strongly opposes a ban on television advertising of tobacco and cigarettes is not the tobacco industry; strangely enough it is the advertising industry. 1 say that the tobacco industry might like to be relieved of the responsibility of wide scale advertising to promote its products. 
The third Reservation which I made in my minority report was that I disagreed with the attitude of the Committee generally on marihuana. Tt is my opinion that marihuana is the least harmful of the drugs of abuse which were brought before the Committee, including alcohol and tobacco. To my mind - and I state this now - one cannot come to any other conclusion. But while 1 am of this opinion I am not prepared to advocate, at this stage, the legalisation of marihuana. I am of the opinion that eventually legalisation is inevitable because of the pressure and demand for its use. 

 Senator Wheeldon declared that the legalisation of marihuana would be the lesser of the evils. He said that the penalties which have to be maintained to prevent widespread use would be a greater evil than the use of the drug itself. I am inclined to believe that. I am of the opinion that one should not trust the legalisation of another drug. Marihuana is a drug and it is not harmless. The term is 'less harmful' than the other two. I do not think anyone has stated that it is a harmless drug. We merely state that it is less harmful than the other drugs which we have listed. I have stated in the Reservations that I have not approved of its legalisation at this stage because I would refuse to place another drug in the hands of commercial interests in this country to promote at will as they have promoted both tobacco and alcohol. For this reason I am not prepared to recommend its legalisation at this stage. I am of the opinion that drug usage in the community - no matter what drug - has to be considerably reduced. Our approach to the use of drugs has to be altered before we can consider legalising or making readily available another drug of this type. 
In conclusion I thank the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Marriott,  for his tolerance. I also thank the members of the staff of the Committee. A moment ago 1 noticed that the secretary of the Committee,  Mr Higgins,  was in the gallery. I commend him for his efforts in the preparation of this report. I also make the point that at the time of the publication of this report there was a pre-release of certain information. I clearly make the statement here that it is ray belief that no member of the staff, of the Government Printing Office or any section of the parliamentary staff was responsible for that release. I apologise for any inconvenience which may have been created by this incident because, in some way, I may have to accept some  of the responsibility although I deny the whole of the responsibility. I have privately expressed this opinion to the  Chairman  and members concerned but I take this opportunity of placing it on the record. 
I would like to express a personal opinion. I support the proposal, but I hope we do not reach the point we reached at the end of the last session that in order to finish the work that was before the Senate in the time available we were intimidated - intimidated is the only word that I could use - to cut short our criticisms of Government legislation. Might 1 indicate at this stage that I would strongly oppose any hastening of debates in this place in order to finish in the time schedule set down. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have a smart person on my left. 
We will get to the Committee stage when we finish speaking on the second reading- 
No, we are not. The list of speakers that the honourable senator has indicated shows those who yesterday wished to contribute to this debate. It may even have been compiled the day before. That list of speakers is the same list that appeared on our Whip's notice board the day before yesterday. As a matter of fact, a couple of speakers have withdrawn and a couple of other speakers who indicated that they wished to speak are not going to do so. 

 - Senator Young will recall that, in the early days of this session, we had no legislation before us. The position was such that for one week the Senate did not sit. We now find ourselves at the end of the session with a Notice Paper that is highly congested. It was useless to agree to sit extra hours last week because no legislation was before us. 
Not Only is the arrangement bad; it can be described only as disgraceful. What the Government deserves is for us to talk at great length on this Bil) and to talk as long as possible on the issues- 
The Australian Workers Union is one of the largest unions in the country. In the past it has contributed to the welfare of the workers in this country. It has been a big union and it has been effective. I am using the past tense. I do not know whether I intend that or whether I just use it instinctively. 
I could call a quorum on myself at this stage because that is what Government supporters deserve. 
My colleagues have capably outlined their opposition to the Bill in a general way at this second reading stage. They have indicated that in the Committee stage the Opposition will analyse the Bill step by step and will oppose its most objectionable clauses; and there are many of them. I invite the attention of the Senate to the position in which the Government has placed us. Not only is the Government unwilling to supply speakers or to arrange for speakers to enter this debate; it is not even willing to maintain the necessary numbers in the Senate. If the Government wants to facilitate the debate by encouraging its supporters not to enter into it, surely in deference to its own legislation the Government should at least insist that they be present in the chamber. 
It is for the sake of efficiency and for the sake of proper methods of co-operation, conciliation, and even arbitration. 
Yes, but I believe that when that is being done it ought to be done in a way in which each person is considered without compulsion. I am saying that provided every shareholder has the right to decide- 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question supplementary to that asked by  Senator Laucke.  Am I to understand that the export meat industry in Australia is now faced with the total rejection of any cattle which show tuberculosis lesions? Am I right in expressing concern that this type of TB infected cattle will now be directed wholly to the local market? Can I be assured that this will not occur? If total rejection is to be applied to cattle for overseas export, will total rejection also apply to cattle for the local market? Could I advise the Minister- 
I wish to make a point in answer to what  Senator McManus  has said. The matter we are debating is not one of all night sittings; it is whether the Senate shall sit an extra day in the normal week to deal with the business that is before it. The Opposition has no objection to the re-arrangement of business so that Government Business can proceed. The Opposition has offered no objection to that course. It has given precedence to Government Business. It has made one small objection, which has been over-ruled. The Opposition has given Government Business precedence. That is fair enough. The Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  has indicated that there is so much work on the notice paper that the Senate will have to sit next week anyhow. Since the Senate has to meet, next week, let us sit on Tuesday and, if necessary, on Wednesday and Thursday and, if necessary, the following week. I do not see any need for the Senate to sit tomorrow. The motion should be opposed strongly because what will happen tomorrow - 
They deserve- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  Order! This Bill relates to conciliation and arbitration. Will you please,  Senator Georges,  deal with it? 
Yes. I am prepared to do as Government speakers, including the Attorney-General, do from time to time. He wanders completely from the subject matter and he is guilty of Complete irrelevancy on many occasions, but he is not disciplined. I believe that I should be allowed the same degree of latitude. The apathy of Government senators is perhaps not theft- own fault. I think a direction has come forward from another place that this Bill must be proceeded with, voted on and decided before the House of Representatives rises or before members of the other place depart to discharge their various responsibilities throughout the Commonwealth. 
I make the point here and now that, as we are forced to continue debating measures after the House of Representatives rises, the sooner we amend some Bill and force the House of Representatives to return the better it will be. This practice of holding up legislation for weeks and weeks and then unloading it on us in the last 2 days of a session must stop. It will stop only when the House of Representatives appreciates that it is possible for us to amend legislation which would require the recall of that House or at least put it in a position where it cannot treat the Senate with disdain. 
For week after week we have listened to members of the House of Representatives warning, arguing, backbiting and acting in a manner that is not constructive. We have seen the Government withhold legislation until now, this very day, we find ourselves with a Notice Paper containing 27 Bills. We are forced to consider this important legislation in a hurried way. We are forced into a one-sided debate, with the Opposition contributing speakers and the Government not contributing speakers. 
It is not so much a matter of divide and rule because the employer knows that it is far better for him on the job, no matter how small or how big the job may be, to deal with one union only. Let us forget about distinctions between big and small employers. It is in the interests even of the small employer who has two or three occupations or trades on his job to negotiate with the one delegte and to be able to reach a single decision quickly and effectively. He does not wish to be arguing with half a dozen union representatives. Nor do half a dozen union representatives wish to be arguing among themselves as to the right way to approach a matter. Unions on a job do not wish to be at the mercy of the smallest union on that job; that union may be under the influence of an erratic shop committee. It is in the interests of the employer, industry, trade unions and their members that these amalgamations should take place so that the unions become larger, more efficient, more capable, more skilled and more effective. 
On the contrary, I need no assistance from the Democratic Labor Party on this occasion. 1 do not receive it on other occasions and I do not want it now. The DLP is responsible for the legislation now before the chamber. It is the Party that wants consideration of the legislation completed within the next 2 days. It does not want it properly deliberated on. Incidentally, the DLP at the present time is in trouble with some of the unions which support it because some of those unions are in favour of amalgamation. The DLP has been caught in its own trap because if this legislation goes through one or two unions which are seeking- 
The honourable senator knows the ones without my telling him. Two or three small unions are seeking the assistance of the major unions. They are seeking amalgamation. If this legislation goes through tomorrow, their initiatives will be destroyed and all their procedures over the past months will be negated. The major unions have been described in this chamber as monsters trying to absorb the smaller unions. The situation is the reverse: The smaller unions are seeking the assistance, the skills, the abilities and the expertise of the larger unions. Industry has been forced to merge. If industry is to be permitted to merge in the name of efficiency, surely the trade union movement should be permitted to do so. But Government senators have come up with all sorts of excuses as to why it should not. I heard  Senator Webster  talk about wage-induced inflation. 
There was an entirely different principle involved there, and  Senator Little  knows it. That case involved overseas control and we were interested in the amount of overseas control. I have been sidetracked somewhat. I was referring to  Senator Webster  talking about wage-induced inflation. As a member of the Australian Country Party, he constantly uses this cry, this ploy, to gain support in country areas. In country areas the proposition constantly pushed is that the worker is responsible for the increased costs imposed on the man on the land; that the worker is getting good working conditions and wage increases and these things do not flow on to the man on the land; that wages are pushing up prices; that if wages go up prices will go up. But that is not true, and  Senator Webster  knows it. It is only one fraction of the truth. The costs that are the cause of union members seeking economic justice are pushed up by other means. The escalation within the price structure is, as I have pointed out before, one of the great causes of this cost-push inflation. The cost of the increase in a worker's wage in the production of an article - say, a loaf of bread - may be lc, but by the time the article goes through the various stages of distribution, the imposition of sales tax and the rest of it that lc- 
I am not arguing that point. I am arguing that the fraction of cost imposed on production by a wage increase escalates through the price structure and if the initial increase is lc the ultimate increase can be as much as 5c, 6c or even 7c. Until that situation is corrected, this escalation of costs and prices will continue and will lead to further just demands by workers, whether they be farmers, shopkeepers or anything else, for economic justice. The Government has done nothing whatever to correct the situation. Instead of endeavouring to correct the situation, it imposes added burdens on this cost inflation structure. For example, by increasing sales tax it imposes an added factor to this escalation of prices. 
However, there is another reason for increased costs and increased prices which has nothing whatever to do with the workers. I refer to the speculative type of investment which takes place in the community, particularly in the commercial area. At the present time no matter where one goes, whether it happens to be Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, or anywhere else, one finds high rise, buildings being erected. Even when there is a glut of high rise buildings one finds more going up. 
I know that, but I can do without the honourable senator's help at the present time because the situation is serious. The concern of the DLP, and particularly of  Senator Little,  is to place impositions on the worker and to complain continually about his demands for wage justice. Then, immediately someone endeavours to point out some other reason why costs go up and why they are uncontrolled, we get snide remarks and snide comments.  Senator Little  can continue with his snide remarks and snide comments. 
There has been, without check, a great development in the commercial building field that has not been taken into consideration in regard to costs which lead to increased prices, which in turn lead to wage claims. Overseas investment in Australia is at an unhealthy level. Many millions of dollars have flowed into this country from overseas investors. This money has flowed into the speculative field of commercial building, whether it be drive-ins or office buildings. These buildings are erected, and it is well known that the rentals charged per square foot are pitched at a level designed to recover the complete cost of the buildings in 8 years. In other words, the gross return expected from that investment is 15 per cent, the net return is  12i  per cent, and the cost of the building is completely recovered in 8 years, even though the building may have been erected to last for 50 years. The rentals charged for those premises are exorbitant. The rentals charged, whether they be for office space or ground floor shops, ave a charge against prices, and prices have gone up considerably under this pressure. The pressure is not caused by wage costs. The cost of renting a small grocery store or a small food store in some of these modern complexes is exorbitant and is charged against the price of the goods. The prices of the goods increase. There is no wage push here. Yet no-one considers that these costs ought to be looked at. 
I refer also to the over-distribution of goods. By this, I mean that too many people are distributing the same type of goods and trying to make a margin of profit out of distribution and not enough out of production. This means that someone must pay. It lis the person who purchases the goods who pays the price. The person who pays that price is more than likely to be a worker. The worker's take home pay is not SUFFICIENT to meet that price, so the pressure is on. His needs are greater. His needs on the job are for increased returns in his pay envelope. The pressure on the union is for a higher return. Are the unions expected to take unilateral action and say that they will not seek extra wages because the extra wages are not of very much use? They cannot be expected to do this; yet the Government does expect it. The whole pressure of stabilising the economy is not placed on the distribution area; it is placed upon the producer, the worker, whether he be a rural worker or an industrial worker. Insufficient care has been given to this problem of increased costs of distribution and faulty distribution. The sooner the Government looks to this area in order to reduce these pressures within the Community, the better. The charge of wage-induced inflation is an over exaggeration. It just is not there. 

 Senator Carrick had a deal to say concerning the conciliation an artibration system. He told us what a wonderful system it is, and in theory it is or was a wonderful system. But for some time, at least, it has not worked to the benefit of the ordinary worker. It has worked to his detriment because - I make this comment - the judges of the courts and the conciliators have been politically appointed. I am not prepared to say whether there have been direct political appointments, but one of the things which has flowed from this Government's being in power for about the last 22 years is that the appointment of people to important positions in the community is influenced in some way by the political philosophy of the Party which has been in power too long. To my mind, many of the appointments to this area of conciliation and arbitration have been politically influenced. This is borne out by some of the decisions that have been made. What has been said is so beautiful in theory but it is not so good in practice. 
I would make certain that the Government was changed a little more regularly and that more of the appointments were made from other areas as well as those areas from which appointments are made at the present time. Some of the decisions that are made are politically influenced, and some of the considerations which are taken into account are not straight industrial considerations. Other considerations which ought not to be brought into the matter are brought into it by pressures applied by this Government. There is evidence that the workers and the unions resent some of the decisions, attitudes and comments of the judges of the arbitration court. J will not go into that aspect on this occasion, but I have with me a brief I will take up at some future time which indicates that certain judges of the arbitration court apply themselves to their duties in a politically biased way. Any trade union official, any trade union advocate, any trade union delegate who took part in the recent case involving the Federated Storemen and Packers Union will tell you exactly this. It is an affront for a case not to be considered properly. It is an affront to know that the decision that will be made is not based upon the evidence but upon a particular political attitude. 
I would have expected the Government to have given considerable thought to the consequences before implementing this Bill. I would have thought that the Government would have allowed sufficient time for the Bill to have been considered in depth and the implications of the various clauses properly considered.  Senator Murphy  indicated that there were other ramifications and other consequences which could flow which had not been properly considered by the Government. Perhaps one can take some comfort from the fact that if these impositions are to be placed on trade unions and trade union corporations, similar restrictions and disciplines will be placed upon many of the other corporations in this country. Those are corporations which are closely associated with the stock exchanges. Let us assume that disciplines were required. I am hoping that some of the disciplines that are being imposed on the trade union movement - I think that some of them are imposed wrongly at the present time - will be enacted to control the various companies and the directors who control those companies. I am hoping too that legislation will be enacted to protect the rights of shareholders and give them some feeling, some element of democracy. 
If it is claimed by Government supporters - I deny this - that no democracy exists within the trade union movement, and if it is claimed that the ordinary . democratic rights of trade unionists have to be protected, surely the same remarks ought to apply to the shareholders, to the systems that are operated by the various companies and to mergers, takeovers and other forms of affiliation or amalgamation - call them what you will - within the commercial world. For instance, I feel that in this area there exists no democracy because the small shareholder in a company in this country has very few rights, nor does he have what we consider to be a democratic right. He is overwhelmed by the money power of his associates and fellow shareholders in that company. He is often ignored and decisions are taken without any consideration of his rights. 
 He ought to receive his ballot paper and all the information to which he is entitled so that he can make a decision. He ought to have some control over the destiny of the company of which he is a shareholder. He ought to be taken out of the area of indifference, not by compulsion but by information and perhaps by education. In the same way, I say that a trade unionist ought to receive his ballot paper - I say that he does receive his ballot paper - but he ought not to have his ballot paper if he ls not financial. He ought to accept the responsibility of notifying his home address. He ought not to be indifferent. He ought to be aware of the issues, and they should be placed before him. Then it is up to him to decide whether he votes. At the present time we are endeavouring to apply a compulsion upon these people to vote. We are doing even more than that; we are requiring that a result ought to be over a certain percentage. 
We might go along with that also but we are not debating that at the present time. In effect, compulsion places an organisation or a trade union into the hands of the indifferent - those who really do not care and are not interested. There are many of them in all organisations, whether they be shareholders, members of trade unions or others. A responsible organisation is being placed at the mercy of the indifferent. The Government is lengthening procedures which will enable them to carry out certain operations in the interests of the union as a whole. This is what the Government is doing with this legislation. 
I had hoped that we would be able to consider this Bill at great length, that we would be able to investigate each clause, that we would be able to see what consequences will flow in other areas of legislation. We should have been able to suggest amendments at will, but that is not the situation now. We will try to amend it tomorrow but we will not have sufficient time to consider it in depth. We will not be able to debate it next Tuesday and next Wednesday. Honourable senators on the Government side may look at me and ask: Why is that?' It is obvious now that the Government wants this Bill passed tomorrow. The Government wants to make certain that if it is amended in this place the amendment can be considered by the other place and sent back to us. Members of the other place are ready to go home. The Government wants this Bill passed and to hell with the rest of the legislation. As far as it is concerned we can sit here for the next 6 months. However it wants this Bill passed and believes that we might amend it. We are not likely to amend the others. We are at the mercy of the intentions of the other place. I think I may be getting on to delicate ground, judging by the look I am getting. It might be thought that I am speaking derogatorily of the other place. 
I am sensitive to looks from certain directions, particularly when the person concerned is impartial at all times and always acts intelligently. I am susceptible to that sort of look. From those remarks it is obvious that the look is not coming from any honourable senator on the Government side of the chamber. I will not delay the Senate any longer. I would like to hear some sort of contribution from Government supporters. I do not think their comments, criticisms or contributions have dried up completely but they are under instruction from their Whip not to take part in the debate. As for members of the DLP, they could not care less because they already have control of the situation. We would like to hear tonight from Government supporters. We would like to hear from them during the Committee stage of the debate but  1  doubt that we will. I think the Whip is too well organised and that Government supporters sitting opposite are too subservient to him. I think they ought to object to this attitude. What I say is true. They ought to enter into the debate. The Opposition intends to fight out the Committee stage and to indicate clearly its opposition step by step. The Committee stage is not too far distant. I yield now to the following speaker. 
I thought you would not invite my participation in question time,  Mr President.  I do wish to ask a question without notice. 
I wish to direct a question without notice to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask: Who is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service? Would it not be of advantage to the Senate if all questions on industrial matters were to be directed at the moment not to  Senator Wright  but to  Senator Greenwood?  It must be obvious to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate that there are friction and confusion here. 
Does the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate agree that it is obvious that there is confusion between - 
I will not start again. 
I am prepared to proceed with the question. 
I direct my question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. Who is for the moment the Minister in this place representing the Minister for Labour and National Service? Is it  Senator Greenwood  or  Senator Wright?  Would it not be of advantage to the Senate for questions on industrial matters to be directed to  Senator Greenwood  so. that we may get his answers rather than those of  Senator Wright  which seem to favour trade unionists more so than do  Senator Greenwood's? 
In spite of the plea of  Senator McManus  I wish to make the point that supporters of the Government - particularly the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who is in charge of this Bill - came into this place today with the deliberate intent of disciplining members of the Opposition and some members of the Opposition have been named tonight on what I state to be very flimsy grounds. 
May I indicate to you,  Mr Chairman,  that the Government is in complete disarray? It is evident that the Attorney-General has deliberately defied even the acting leader of the Government parties, namely, the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  I say that because on the motion being put for the adjournment of the Senate tonight the front bench of the Government parties - the senior Ministers of the Government parties - said 'aye* but the Attorney-General, with the connivance of  Senator Withers,-  who sits behind him, opposed the motion and then proceeded to move a motion that the Bill be considered to be an urgent one. The disarray within the Government at the present time has resulted in 3 members of the Opposition being suspended from this place. 
For bad behaviour my foot. They were deliberately provoked. 

 - Mr Chairman, what other line can I take, when that was, as 1 have said, the deliberate intent of the Attorney-General and those who have supported him? It was not the deliberate intent of all Government senators but of those who have supported the Attorney-General, who, for all I know - it appears that this may be so - is engaging in some petty internal competition with other members of the Government parties because it was fairly clear last week that he came into this place and moved an amendment to this Bill without the knowledge of the Government parties and without the knowledge of the rest of the honourable senators in this place. The Attorney-General has deliberately taken into his own hands the control of the Government side of the Senate. He has done it deliberately and without consideration for the rest of the members of the Government parties, and in doing so he has provoked the Opposition to take such action that has led to the suspension of some of its members. 
It has been fairly clear to us as we have viewed it here. There is complete disorder in the Government. The Minister who should be dealing with this Bill is the Minister who represents in this chamber the Minister for 
National Service and it has been declared to the Senate that the Minister who represents in this chamber the Minister for Labour and National Service is  Senator Wright.  He should be the man who is best able to handle this Bill. But what has happened? 
The relevance of what 1 am saying is- 
-.- Yes. If one were properly to define relevance one would find that there has been no relevance to the debate in the contributions of the last three or four speakers.  Mr Chairman,  I would say that to impose such discipline on me at this point of time is to be somewhat inconsistent. But let me proceed, if I may. 
I will. I am leading to the intention that we ought to move in some way, if it is within the forms of the Senate, that the Bill be taken out of the hands of the Minister who is handling it at the present time and placed back where it belongs, namely, in the hands of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service,  Senator Wright.  It must be obvious even to you,  Mr Chairman,  that  Senator Wright  has not been present during this debate. Why? Is it that he knows nothing about the Bill or is it because he has been affronted because the Bill has been taken out of his hands and placed in the hands of this young Turk who has provoked us? 
The  President  or the  Chairman  of Committees may call the attention of the Senate or the Committee, as the case may be, to continued irrelevance or tedious repetition, and may direct a  Senator to  discontinue his speech: 
I requested  Senator Georges  to explain the relevance of his remarks to the Bill before the Chair. He failed to demonstrate that relevance and in addition to failing to demonstrate the relevance which I was anxious to perceive, he proceeded along exactly the same lines. I suggested, seeing that he appeared to be unable to demonstrate relevance under standing order 421, that he resume his seat. But if  Senator Georges  is prepared to obey the orders of the Chair he may resume. 
Provided that such  Senator shall  have the right to require that the question whether he be further heard be put, and thereupon such question shall be put without debate. 
You quoted the part of the standing order that takes away  Senator George's  privileges but you did not quote that part of the standing order which gives  Senator Georges  privileges in this place. Therefore I believe that your ruling is out of order. 
Every such objection must be taken at the time when such words are used, and will nol be afterwards entertained. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service and, of course, I refer to  Senator Wright.  Was the conscientious position of Robert Martin, the young person imprisoned under the National Service Act in South Australia, brought to the notice of the Department of Labour and National Service at any time? Was the Department aware of his conscientious position? Did the Department seek a referral to a tribunal, a court or magistrate, lo establish his conscientious position and, if so, was any evidence provided by the Department in support of the referral? 
Firstly let me answer the question that  Senator Carrick  asked me in particular. It is fortunate that I have documented my attitude to the advertising of cigarettes, alcohol and analgesics in a minority report to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. My attitude is documented clearly. It is not an attitude which I have developed tonight in opposition to what  Senator Carrick  has said. My reservation on advertising was this: 
The Committee's recommendation does not go far enough. Sufficient evidence was received to show that the self-regulation of the drug industry was not to be trusted and that the intention of Government regulations were and will continue to be ignored. The promotion to the public of drugs of abuse greatly leads to their becoming socially acceptable especially to the young and this promotion should be discontinued. My conclusion is that a ban be placed on all TV and radio advertising of all pharmaceuticals, including minor analgesics, tobacco and alcohol and that the co-operation of States be invited to limit all other forms of advertising not under Commonwealth control. 
I am speaking for myself at the moment. I will speak for the Australian Labor Party in a moment. Having spent 18 months investigating drug abuse in this country, it was fairly clear to me that there was a high level of drug abuse in this country. The report supports that statement. The main drug of abuse was alcohol. If one is to take action against cigarettes one must be consistent and also be emphatic that alcohol be included. But tonight we are dealing with only one form of drug abuse - cigarette smoking. I agree with  Senator Carrick- 
He will not win me over. I doubt whether I will win him over. 
The position that  Senator Carrick  has taken tonight is virtually one that does not accept the proposition that society, as a whole, ought to accept a responsibility to impose certain limitations for the good of the community. He feels that the individual can still be trusted to carry out his own controls. It is fairly evident that that is not the correct position, especially when one looks at the high level of drug abuse in this country. 
I do not differ from the honourable senator on the danger these drugs pose to the community. I differ on the method by which we should lower the level of drug abuse in the community. 1 am saying that these drugs are dangerous to the community and have been proven so. Research has been carried out in depth, especially in relation to cigarette smoking. The findings of our leading medical authorities are that there ought not to be promotion of cigarettes. They have recommended that there ought not to be promotion of the other drugs either. But we are dealing with one drug, so we should confine ourselves to cigarette smoking, knowing that in my mind and in  Senator Carrick's  mind alcohol and the analgesics are in the same classification. 
No, our policy does not cover the 3. The policy of the Australian Labor Party at present is stated in the Platform, Constitution and Rules' as approved by the 29th conference. Clause 17 on page 20 states: 
HEALTH CAMPAIGNS 
The development of public health and industrial medicine campaigns by the Commonwealth Department of Health in co-operation with the States. 
In effect, we would do what the Government is doing at present. It is providing $500,000 to carry out these campaigns. We would be more emphatic in the application of our campaign methods. The Government seems to concentrate on health campaigns in schools and various educational groups. Our campaign would be directed towards contra advertising to show the dangers of these drugs of abuse. However, the policy of the Australian Labor Party on cigarette and tobacco advertising is firm. It states: 
Prohibition of cigarette and tobacco advertising in all forms coupled with a vigorous campaign to educate the public, especially young people, on the serious health hazards associated with cigarettes and tobacco. 
At the moment it does not. However, I would say that there is a strong movement within our Party, especially since some of us were involved in the investigations of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, to extend the ban. Resolutions are being brought forward in caucus from the various sections of the Party to extend the ban to other areas of drug abuse. We have become aware that the main drug of abuse, of course, is alcohol, as the report of the Committee stated. In effect, alcohol represents a greater danger than cigarette smoking because it can affect not only the individual but also other parties. A person driving under the influence of alcohol can cause considerable damage to both people and property and involve many people other than himself. However, even with cigarette smoking, there is an involvement of people other than the individual smoker because if a person is to be responsible for selfinflicted physical damage, he imposes a strain upon the community. The cigarette smoker at one time may not only require the sophisticated skills of a surgeon but may also occupy valuable hospital space that is needed for another reason. This problem is self-inflicted. 
Yes. In that case it goes beyond the individual to some future generation. While we accept the dangers; we do not accept the method. The Government accepts that the individual must be responsible for his own controls. We say that the individual is not in a position to protect himself, especially when he is young and uninformed, against the promotion of cigarette companies, pharmaceutical companies and other companies that produce drugs of abuse. The young person is not able to resist the promotion by which, as the companies have said, they are seeking to establish their share of the market. 
I will get to marihuana in a moment. A statement has been made which must be cleared up. The companies say that they are seeking their share of the market but, by their promotions to achieve that share, they are also expanding the use of a particular drug. One recalls just how quickly cigarette smoking was accepted by women in the United States. One recalls the promotion that was used by the Lucky Strike company to extend smoking in the United States. That company used a rather effective advertisement which stated: 'Don't reach for a sweet; reach for a Lucky'. In effect, the company was pushing, promoting and peddling cigarettes as a means of reducing weight. This method is still used and cigarettes are still promoted as a means of reducing weight. 
The companies say that they are forced to promote and to advertise. However, we say that the companies should not be permitted to promote and, in fact, to peddle cigarettes. We say that the promotion of cigarette advertising should be reduced. We say that cigarette smoking should be made socially unacceptable. The social acceptability of smoking is the reason for its spread. If a person wished to become socially acceptable within certain social groups and if he wanted to have a nice, big car and be a prosperous businessman with all the associated advantages of company and the rest of it, he would smoke a particular type of cigarette. 
I accept that there is a high level of alcohol abuse in Russia and that there is a high level of smoking in Russia. But let me make the point- 
No, it is not that at all. 
I am serious also. Wherever one goes in Russia one can purchase cigarettes and whisky or any other form of alcohol. 
It is readily available. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! There are too many interjections. 
Alcohol and cigarettes are subjected to high impulse buying methods in Russia. They can be purchased at every turn. Wherever one goes - to a snack bar or any other place - one can buy a packet of cigarettes or a bottle of Vat  69  whisky. They are readily available. Perhaps alcohol and cigarettes are used as an escape from certain of the social pressures that the Russians experience. We also have social pressures. I admit that the rate of use of alcohol and cigarettes in Russia may be increasing. But it should be remembered that the Russians started from a lower base than that from which we started. 
It should be understood that the pressure for cigarette advertising comes not only from the tobacco companies but also from the advertising firms and the commercial radio and television stations. It is my belief that this pressure should be reduced in some way. I believe that we should reduce the economic pressure which is placed upon a radio or television station to accept such advertisements in order to survive. The radio and television stations know that if cigarette or drug advertising were to be banned their incomes would be seriously affected. The advertising and promotional companies also know that. It is their pressure, possibly more than that of the drug firms - I include in that the tobacco companies - that is resisting a reduction in or a banning of cigarette advertising. There was an inquiry into drug abuse in the Canadian State of Saskatchewan, where there is no advertising of alcohol. The alcohol companies were asked whether advertising would be of any advantage to them. They said that it would be of no advantage to them. In fact, cigarette advertising in the United States became of no advantage to the cigarette companies when contra advertising was permitted. The thing that the cigarette companies feared greatly in the United States was not the ban on cigarette advertising but the compulsory contra advertising. It was for that reason that the cigarette companies accepted the ban on cigarette advertising in the .United States. They were afraid of the contra advertising. 
I take it from the fact that the Commonwealth will provide  $500,000  a year for  3  years for an education programme aimed at informing the public of the dangers to health of cigarette smoking that the Government is not prepared to accept a complete ban on cigarette advertising. It ..should at least force a situation where the companies themselves will begin to withdraw from this type of promotion. If the Government .were prepared to spend money on advertising warnings on television and radio on the programmes on which cigarettes are advertised and if the health authorities were prepared to publish the truth as to the results of the research that has been carried out on the dangers and hazards of cigarette smoking, the effect would be the same.' As a matter of fact I might be prepared to admit that it may be even more effective. However, I believe that there is a need to reduce the promotion of all types of drugs of abuse, including cigarettes. 
If the economic pressure imposed by advertising firms on the media is preventing us from reducing the promotion of these goods by advertising, we ought to look at some way in which alternative income could flow to the media in the interim period during which they might lose income. I suggest that that could be done simply. As any ban on cigarette advertising would affect advertising companies as Well as radio and television stations, we should look to some means - by which the media could be subsidised. That is nothing new. lt is not something that has . not- been requested before. Commercial radio stations have demanded that they should receive some share of the money raised from licensing fees, and I am inclined to agree with that. If there is to be a high standard of advertising on commercial television , and radio, then those stations must be economically secure. If the banning pf the advertising of drugs of abuse, including cigarettes  is  introduced, then in all fairness we ought to ensure that the media are not in some way affected. 1 want quickly to move to another point. Some time ago I was quite concerned to find out how strong the lobby of the tobacco companies was within political parties, especially within the Liberal Party. Tobacco companies, in order to protect their position, have co-opted ex-members of Parliament whom they have considered to be useful to their cause. The first article that attracted attention to this matter was one Which appeared in 'Inside Canberra', volume 23, No. 41, of 15th October 1970. Under the heading Tobacco ads still immune' the article states: 
The Government shows no sign of acceding to increasing medical demands for limitations on advertising of cigarettes. 
The 2 principle reasons for the Government's resistance to pressure from the National Health and Medical Research Council and spokesmen for non-Government medical bodies wishing to see cigarette advertising restricted are the number of Country Party seats that could be affected by antagonising tobacco growers and the strength of the tobacco lobby within the Liberal Party. 
There is a similar lobby within the Labor Party, especially from members who represent tobacco growing areas in Queensland. This lobby brings effective pressure to bear on members representing their areas for a particular reason, and I believe that it is not in the interests of the health of the community. The article continues: 
The tobacco lobby has become increasingly active at Canberra in recent years. 
It was very active about a fortnight ago when this Bill was going through the other place. One of the people whose name is mentioned in this article was active in the corridors of this place. Tobacco companies are using a frontal lobby that ought to be exposed and resisted. The article continues: 
Originally it comprised  Mr W.  S. Bengtsson,  a former research officer of the Liberal Party and later a member of the party's higher councils.  Mr Bengtsson  ls now Director of Public Relations for British Tobacco (Aust.) Ltd. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - There is no point of order. 
1 am sorry to hear of  Mr Bengtsson's  death. I am not reflecting on  Mr Bengtsson;  I am merely reflecting on the tobacco companies.  Mr Bengtsson  had the right to use his skills and talents to his own advantage. In any case, it is important to see just what is happening in this area because what is happening in the Liberal Party may also be happening in other parties. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - I ask  Senator Georges  to keep to the provisions of the Bill. 
 I am indicating why the amendment has been introduced. The article in 'Inside Canberra' continues: 
Since 1966 his principal assistant in the political field has been  Mr C.  W. J. Falkinder, who ceased to be Liberal member for Franklin (Tas.) just before the 1966 election. 

 Mr Falkinder was active in the corridors of this Parliament a fortnight ago. As an ex-member  Mr Falkinder  has privileges in this place. He has the freedom of the lobbies, but he ought not to misuse the freedom of the lobbies. 
He is an exmember of this Parliament. All I am saying is that ex-members of Parliament have rights. 
 Character assassination does not come into it at all. I am merely stating the facts of the case. Exmembers of Parliament have taken on jobs as public relations men and lobbyists for the tobacco companies. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Georges,  keep more closely to the provisions of the Bill. 
 Because of pressure exerted by  Mr Falkinder  on behalf of the tobacco companies of this country this Government altered and watered down its own amendment to make ineffective the legislation it had introduced. To my mind there is a connection in this. I point out that ex-members of Parliament enjoy privileges in this place and they should not misuse them to seek to have legislation amended on behalf of companies by whom they are employed. It should not be accepted that these people should use their previous position to the advantage of outside concerns whether the ex-members happen to be members of the Labor Party, Liberal Party, Country Parly or any other party. lt is not in the best interests of good government. 
In the past 1 2 months the British Tobacco Company's public relations staff has been augmented by the appointment of  Mr W.  Bridges-Maxwell, who lost his Liberal seat of Robertson in New South Wales at the 1969 election. Irrespective of the health needs of the community the tobacco companies - taken as a group or individually - are determined to resist any legislation that might limit their operations. For this reason they take action to have friends in the right places. How much better can they do this when the Liberal-Country Party coalition is in government than to employ ex-members of Parliament as public relations officers or as lobbyists because these ex-members have access not only to the Parliament and the parliamentary parties but also to the high council of the Liberal Party. I point out that it does not matter to which party these ex-members of Parliament belong; such a situation should not be permitted especially in this area which concerns the health of the whole community. 
The Labor Party does not oppose this legislation because even the little that it does is a move forward. But our own experts should not be ignored. In evidence given before the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse the  Deputy  Director-General of Health, in answer to a question, said clearly that cigarette smoking was the greatest cause of morbidity and death in the community. If our experts say this and clearly recommend the complete ban of cigarette advertising, we ought to listen to them, even if it is to the economic disadvantage of the tobacco companies and advertising concerns. The health of the individual in the community is at risk. Sufficient research has been carried out into cigarette smoking. Further research would be no more conclusive than the evidence at present. If the resarch has been carried out and recommendations have come down, those recommendations should be accepted. I cannot for the life of me understand why the Government refuses to accept the recommendations of its own experts.' I cannot understand why the Government refuses to accept the inevitable unless it is because of undue influence brought to bear on the Government parties by these tremendous vested interests. 
Have honourable senators seen recently the most provocative, incisive and aggresive type of cigarette advertising by one particular firm? It virtually says: ' If you cannot afford to buy one, borrow ohe. If you cannot borrow one, have one of mine'. This is the incisive, pressure type of advertising used to peddle - nothing more or less--a drug of abuse which does as much harm to the individual as alcohol, and firm action ought to be taken. I regret that the Government has not taken more effective action because it is a long and hard road to reduce the social acceptability of the use of drugs of abuse. 
It is argued that the banning of cigarette advertising in the United States did not immediately reduce the increase in cigarette smoking, but it did considerably slow it down and it is too early to know the result; it will take a long time. The reduction of the promotion of cigarettes - the reason for this Bill - is vital to the position of young people in the community. They ought not to be subjected to the promotion of cigarettes by advertising. It ought to be removed from their province so that it will have no opportunity to influence them. In future generations cigarette smoking will be reduced. It will not be socially acceptable but will be recognised for the dirty vice that it is. I should have called it a dirty and dangerous vice. 
I hope that you do, because I object to my friends smoking. I hate to have to waste my sympathy on them in the future. I have stated my case and I will now allow  Senator Little  an opportunity to follow me. 
Could I make the point that  Senator Marriott  for 18 months heard evidence that revealed the dangers of cigarette smoking. I am referring to the evidence that was produced before the Senate Select Committee on Drug' Trafficking and Drug Abuse, of which he was  chairman.  That evidence was what actually frightened him - no less than that - into a position where he decided that he would give up cigarette smoking. Because of that evidence he became aware that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health - not hazardous, but dangerous to health. He became aware of the dangers of cigarette smoking and he made a personal decision not to smoke. All that we are suggesting is that the message which  Senator Marriott  received as a result of this evidence is the message which should be given carefully and clearly to everyone who smokes cigarettes, whether he be young or old. If a message saying that cigatette smoking is dangerous to health is flashed across a television screen, the person who reaches for his cigarette packet because he sees a cigarette advertisement at that moment on television will think again. The weakening and watering down of the warning, which took place in the House of Representatives ought not to be tolerated here. Cigarette smoking is dangerous to health, and the Minister himself, by the details and figures that he has given, supports this claim. It is dangerous to health - not hazardous to health. 'Hazardous' is merely an extension of 'cautious'. Our amendments states that the warning should read: 
The National Health and Medical Research Council warns that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health. 
Perhaps we could substitute the words medical authorities' for the words National Health and Medical Research Council', but to my mind the most important consideration is whether we should use the word 'hazardous' or 'dangerous'. On the evidence that has been placed before the Senate during the past day, I think the word should be 'dangerous'. I appeal to honourable senators, especially to the independent senators, to consider that at this moment they have the chance of putting an effective warning against cigarette smoking on television advertising. If honourable senators support what the Government has proposed they will be supporting an ineffective warning compared to what  Senator Douglas'  McClelland has proposed. It may be many months or even years1 before- we' contemplate" issuing a more 'serious warning. In the meantime', many young people and many older people will be encouraged not only to start but also to continue smoking cigarettes. 
Let me make the point clear: Cigarette smoking is addictive. Once started, in spite of the will of people, cigarette smoking has the capacity to drive them to further smoking. Any person who smokes cigarettes can tell you exactly how difficult it is to give up smoking. 1 feel that this question ought to be considered seriously. I stress again that at this moment we have the opportunity of insisting on a reasonable warning being given against cigarette smoking. I appeal to honourable senators to support the amendment rather than the Government's proposition. 

 Senator MARRIOTT (Tasmania) -  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation.  Senator Georges  has unwittingly misrepresented the facts. This time last year I was in hospital preparing to undergo ear surgery. My doctor would not operate because of the state of my health, caused, he said, through excessive smoking. I gave up smoking for that reason. I felt so well after a week, and then I remembered the evidence given to the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. 1 have kept off smoking. My medical authority caused me to give up smoking. 
This very important Bill relates to the setting up of the Australian Institute of Marine Science and is supported and welcomed by the Opposition. In brief, in 1970 the Government introduced a Bill for the establishment of an Australian Institute of Marine Science as a first step towards correcting deficiencies in our work in marine science. That Act provided that there should be an institute known as the Australian Institute of Marine Science and it should be located in the vicinity of Townsville. One cannot under-estimate or overemphasise the importance of the establishment of this Marine Institute, especially since it will develop skills in marine biology and stimulate research into marine biology and the marine ecology which is desperately needed in this country. It will upgrade the level of these studies and it is hoped that, provided the Government makes money available it will quickly reach a sufficiently high standard to achieve an international reputation. 
The location of the Institute has been in question. Some criticisms have been made that the marine environment of Townsville has been subjected to some metal pollution. If this is so, I trust that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will be able to advise what steps have been taken to correct this situation and to prevent the metal pollution of an area which is not only vital to the proposed Marine Institute but also vital to the Great Barrier Reef which lies off-shore from the site of the proposed Marine Institute. 1 have spoken previously of the dangers of nickel contamination, especially in the marine environment because there it escalates at a great rate. Marine metal pollution is not limited to the immediate area. Because of the type of environment, the pollution can spread up and down the whole of the province of the Great Barrier Reef and to areas outside it. Reference have been made here before to mercury and nickel pollution and other forms of metal pollution in the marine environment. It has been said that the escalation rapidly compounds itself and the major fish of the Reef can be the most affected. The fishing industry of the north could be seriously limited. The work of the Institute will be limited unless metal pollution in the region is controlled in some way. 
It is tragic, and I must highlight it, that the work of the Institute will be affected by the severe devastation caused to the reefs near Townsville by the crown of thorns starfish. It is a great pity that the area from Cooktown almost as far as Bowen has been savagely devasted by the crown of thorns. The ability of the Institute to carry out research in that area will be limited by the fact that the reefs have been considerably damaged and the fish and marine organisms within that area have been greatly affected. However, on the credit side it may mean that the Institute can carry out substantial investigation into this important problem which faces the Great Barrier Reef. It cannot be overestimated, in spite of conflicting reports from scientists. 
The threat to the Great Barrier Reef by the crown of thorns has been established as a major one. It is hoped that the Institute will be given first priority, or a priority that will enable it to spend money and to exercise its skill and research in finding the base cause of the epidemic. Those of us who fear for the future of the Great Barrier Reef are caught in the conflict between the scientists who say that it is a cyclic epidemic and the scientists who say that it is man made. The scientists who say that it is cyclic say 'Let it take its course', but they do not say whether the cycle will last for 10, 15, 100, 200 or even 500 years. 
If it is a man made epidemic, man must undertake immediate and strong control measures. It is hoped that the Institute will take immediate action to determine and define the cause so that the necessary measures against the crown of thorns can be taken. I emphasise this matter because I believe that the establishment of the Institute is of great importance in view of this major threat. I encourage honourable senators who have not acquainted themselves with the crown of thorns problem to read the latest book on the starfish plague, a documentary titled 'Crown of Thorns - The Death of The Great Barrier Reef?', written by Theo W. Brown in association with Keith Willey, lt is not freely available at present, but it has been reviewed. Honourable senators who are concerned about the future of the Reef and the threat to it posed by the crown of thorns ought to read the book. 
For far too long the true threat has been underestimated, and perhaps deliberately so. Perhaps the problem has been deliberately underestimated by the Queensland Government which was responsible for the suppression of the first report in 1966 which gave the initial warning of the threat. The appalling situation is that the report was not published and the findings were not made publicly available, with the result that the Reef was subjected to considerable devastation without any action being taken. The establishment of the Institute will add to the small amount of money that has been made available for research, provided that in the programme of the Institute priority is given to this research work. 1 strongly recommend to the Government that the matter be brought: before the people who are responsible for the setting up of the Institute. 
In Queensland, because of the reluctance of the Government to take immediate action, members of the public have become involved. They have set up, through various means, the 'Save the Reef Committee'. This Committee has begun training scuba divers in the skills required to participate in research programmes and control measures which the Government or the Institute may set up. These divers will take some time to train. They will be put through an internationally recognised programme so that divers, in numbers, will be available on a voluntary basis to assist in research programmes. The scheme has been rubbished out of hand by the Queensland Premier who has no real conception of the needs of the area. I trust that the Commonwealth Government will not adopt a similar attitude. In addition to the establishment of the 'Save the Reef Committee' in Brisbane, a similar committee has been established in New South Wales and a further committee is to be established- 
 For the information of  Senator Maunsell  I point out that a further committee is to be established in Rockhampton on 14th June. If he cares to attend the meeting on that date and to participate, he will be welcomed. In his area the resort managers have appealed to the Government to stop research into the crown of thorns because they feel that any public announcement of the position may in some way limit their return through a downgrading of the area. That attitude ought not to be taken. The devastation is there and it has to be corrected. I have referred to the establishment of volunteer groups. Unless there is great public involvement supporting government action, the future of the Reef may be in some danger. If these organisations are to train divers, the assistance of the divers should be accepted by governments and the Institute because, sooner or later, divers in numbers will be needed to carry out surveillance programmes and control measures. Eventually, it may be necessary for the Federal Government to support these people in their fund raising efforts by subsidising them dollar for dollar in the same way as surf life saving groups are subsidised up and down the coast. To employ people in numbers to carry out the necessary research and to provide remuneration for them would involve tremendous expense which the Government possibly would not be able to meet and from which responsibility the Government would be inclined to withdraw. 
Let me make another point as to why it is so necessary that this Institute should not only be established but also be financed properly. The amount of money which is being spent on coral reef research now is not as great as we had hoped last year that it would be. Honourable senators will recall that the American authorities announced that they were going to spend $4.5m on research into the crownof.thorns starfish problem in areas which came under their responsibility. Unfortunately, that research has not been funded. That amount of money is not available 
The only amount of money which has been made available is local money from local governments. The Commonwealth proposal provides some money. I say that it is not sufficient, but I am hoping that the proposed Marine Institute will take up the slack. 
An amount of money has been provided by the British authorities for research in the Red Sea. I make this point: I trust that the Institute will quickly establish liaison with other similar institute and marine groups in the Pacific area and other overseas areas.  Dr Rhodes  who leads the British expedition to the Red Sea has made the comment that it has been difficult to set up any lines of communication with Australian scientists. I trust that we will emphasise to those who are setting up this Institute that it is necessary to liaise with other authorities and with other researchers carrying out similar programmes so that efforts may be coordinated and expenditures may be reduced. 
While in Honolulu recently I participated in a 3-way conversation, conducted by satellite, on the crown-of-thorns problem. There is a programme called the Peace-Sat. Programme' which I recommend to those who will set up the Australian Institute. It involves the establishment of ground stations in various places in the Pacific. Groups of scientists can be linked via the satellite for discussion periods of from one hour to 2 hours. I suggest that the Institute consider setting up the first ground station in the South Pacific area in Australia. It could be done through this Peace-Sat. Programme. That first ground station ought to be established at Townsville in conjunction with the Australian Institute of Marine Science so that conversations, discussions and seminars can be carried out through the satellite programme. In this way marine scientists in Fiji, Honolulu and New Zealand and other places would be able to talk to scientists at our new Marine Institute. 
Unless this Institute is properly funded and unless it receives continuing support it cannot take its place as an international institute. One questions the amount of money which has been made available. I take it the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  will assure us in some way that this money is merely initial expenditure and that it will not be completely used in the provision of buildings but will be an amount which will increase continually to provide funds with which to enlist from various parts of the world first class scientists in support of the programme which is to be carried out. 
The Great Barrier Reef is unique and deserves to have associated with it a marine institute of international standing. 1 trust that the programme that the Government has initiated will lead to this development and will do so quickly, otherwise the value and beauty of the Great Barrier Reef, a vast complex extending for more than 1,500 miles almost from New Guinea down the eastern coast of Queensland, may be affected greatly. The pressures to exploit the reef for purposes other than research are so great that we may find that, before the Marine Institute has a chance to develop, the Barrier Reef may be so affected that the work of the Marine Institute also will be affected. 
It is a great pity - I think that my colleague,  Senator Keeffe,  will take this matter up - that the Commonwealth has not established its right over the territorial shelf and accepted full responsibility in this respect. One could be critical of the Government for allowing its internal divisions to affect the consideration of a Bill which, if passed, would have established conclusively that the responsibility for the whole of the continental shelf from the low water mark to its outer limits is that of the Commonwealth Government. The Government must stop its bickering and internal fighting. It must bring on debate on this Bill and have a decision taken. The provisions of that Bill should be tested constitutionally. The sooner that these things are done, the better. I do not think that the future of the Great Barrier Reef should be at the mercy of the internal divisions of the Liberal Party.  I  hope that the Bill which will take the initiative in this matter will be brought before the Parliament for debate as soon as possible. There are other matters with which  I  wished to deal. But this is the last day of this session and our opportunity to speak at length on important matters such as this is constricted. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I did not wish to be discourteous. However, I believe I must add a comment to the reply which was made by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  when he introduced the recent report of the committee appointed by the Commonwealth and Queensland governments on the problem of the crown of thorns starfish. Let me make the point that although we are not quite certain what has caused the crown of thorns infestation and we are not quite certain whether it is a man-made epidemic or a cyclic epidemic, it would be to the disadvantage of us all and to the disadvantage of the future of the Great Barrier Reef if we were deliberately to play down the level of this threat. One of the unfortunate parts of the recent recommendation is that it did play down the threat to the Great Barrier Reef. Since the report has been tabled comments have been made and I direct the attention of honourable senators to them. The report effectively stopped and in other ways affected the plans of various organisations which desire to do something immediately about the crown of thorns threat.  Mr Walt  Deas, who is a very distinguished underwater photographer and researcher said: 
I personally do not agree with the joint CommonwealthQueensland report. With many months of working up on the Reef during the past 2 years, one soon finds out- 
Yes. I wish to be brief and there are only a few more lines which I wish to read. In effect the material was introduced by the Minister in his second reading speech. 

 - Mr Chairman, if I cannot make these remarks during the Committee stage I will have to speak at the third reading stage. I do not desire to do this. Therefore, if you would give me just a few moments I will merely read what I desire to read.  Mr Deas  said: 
With many months of working up on the Reef during the past 2 years, one soon finds out that various reefs have had extensive damage caused by the Starfish. 
I would also like to place on record very quickly the following extract from  Mr Deas'  article. It states: 
The latest report by Professor A. K. 0'Gower Professor of Zoology, University of NSW, Miss Isobel Bennett, Sydney University and  Dr D.  F. McMichael, Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Services of NSW states that systematic sampling by  Dr Endean  is 'adequate . . . 
This was even though the committee refused to accept his evidence as valid. The article to which I am referring further said: 
The findings of the Commonwealth/Qld Committee 'was based on its interpretation of the evidence presented to it and not upon its own inadequate sampling.' These 3 Australian scientists all specialists in marine life have rejected the findings of the above Committee which declared the Crown of Thorns Starfish was not a serious threat to the Great Barrier Reef. 
I introduce this as a rebuttal of what the Minister has said and I ask the Senate to take note of it. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I direct my ques  tion to the Minister for Works. Since he and the Attorney-General are so concerned about upholding the law and are so strongly against intimidation, can he, as  a 
Minister of the Government, explain how it was possible for a leading stockbroker, a  Mr Dowling  of Patrick Partners, to successfully intimidate the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales on the matter of a tax assessment? Is it not a fact that Patrick Partners received an assessment in respect of millions of dollars gained through a bond washing operation? Is it not a fact that  Mr Dowling,  when he received this assessment, told the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales that he would see the Prime Minister, and that he did make such an appointment? Is it not a further fact that, this having been made known to the  Deputy  Commissioner, the  Deputy  Commissioner then contacted  Mr Dowling  and told him that the assessment would be withdrawn? I ask the Minister: If the Government is so strong for upholding the law and is so strong for supporting the proposition that the law should be upheld by all, what action does the Government intend to take to investigate the allegation 1 am now making - that there has been an attempt on the part of  Mr Dowling,  of Patrick Partners, to intimidate the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales, and that in fact he succeeded in doing so? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Works. I inform him that I ignored the word 'malicious' and similar words he used against me and that I will retaliate in due course. I take it that he intends to make an investigation of the charges I made. Will he further verify when he makes that investigation that, in fact,  Mr Dowling  did contact the Prime Minister and that it was at the Prime Minister's direction that the assessment was withdrawn by the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It refers to an answer that was given to me by the Treasurer about a taxation matter concerning the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales and Patrick Partners. 
In due course. Was an assessment made against Patrick Partners by the  Deputy  Commissioner in New South Wales? Was that assessment objected to by Patrick Partners? Was that objection overruled? Was there a subsequent appeal by Patrick Partners? Was that appeal rejected? Was the matter referred to the Commissioner of Taxation? Was the matter then under consideration by the Commissioner of Taxation? Subsequent to an appointment being made by  Mr Dowling  of Patrick Partners with the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  was the assessment withdrawn? Since the tax assessment is reputed to be in the vicinity of $2. 5m, will the Treasurer state clearly why the matter was not referred to a court for determination so that full disclosure of the principles and policies involved could take place for the benefit of all taxpayers, especially those who may have been similarly assessed? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Will the Minister, in order to qualify his statement on the Greek Government which he made earlier during question time in answer to a question which was not asked of him, admit that Australian citizens of Greek descent or of Greek origin have been and are being conscripted into the Greek Army if and when they return to Greece? Can he explain the Australian Government's reluctance to protect Australian citizens against this imposition? Will the Government protest to the Greek Government? Will the Government at least pay the outrageous financial penalty which the Greek Government imposes upon Australian citizens who wish to avoid this army service? Finally, what steps has the Government taken to protect the Canberra citizen who has been conscripted into the Greek Army? 
Let me make it clear- 
 There sits the mammon of righteousness. The honourable senator who has just spoken is, I would say, an example of what is occurring in this country. He is an example of a person who I have termed before to be a precursor of evil. 
I am merely retaliating to the interjection that was made. I will explain what I meant by a precursor of evil, in case it is not clearly understood by all honourable senators present. It is one who anticipates a situation and by anticipating such a situation in fact creates the situation. If a person anticipates that there shall be violence and he defines how that violence shall occur, he in effect creates that very violence. This, I would say, is a description which fits the honourable senator who has just resumed his seat. I will now return the motion. 
I abhor violence of all kinds; I abhor the violence that occurred at Munich. I rise to speak now because I do not want the Leader of my Party in the Senate to be isolated in making the statement which he made alone. I support the statement which he has made. I support his clear opposition to the atrocity which occurred at Munich. I support his further statement about the atrocity which followed the one at Munich, because there is no excuse for violence in this world today. Time after time, we have spoken about actions, which have been supported by members of this Parliament and by the Government itself, involving violence that has been perpetrated against innocent people, innocent nations and small nations. In accepting the violence against these small nations, we have conditioned ourselves to accepting, the situations of violence which have occurred in places like Ireland and the Middle East. We have conditioned ourselves to accepting the violence which occurred at Munich, acid it is hypocritical on our part to take a position of abhorrence at what has happened in Munich. . 
Let us realise what happened in Munich. Young men, driven by hate, took a suicidal position and died and, in dying, destroyed innocent people. That is . abhorrent to us. But also abhorrent is the retaliation which has taken place. We ought to risk the charge of anti-semitism by declaring that we are against what Israel has done also in retaliating to what happened at Munich. Israel has retaliated against innocent people - the Palestine refugees - and it ought not to be allowed to go without criticism. 
What my Leader has done is to level criticism against what has happened at Munich and what has happened subsequently in the Middle East. All 1 am saying in support is that we can no longer tolerate acts of violence by people whether they be our allies or our enemies, whether they be Israelis or Americans or Irish, or whether they be of one religion or another. Violence cannot be tolerated, because it is an infamy. It is an attack upon humanity. No one should level criticism against one who is guilty of an act of violence unless he also levels that criticism against he who retaliates. Let me answer  Senator Gair  and explain the reason why there was so much opposition to the Springbok tour. Let us make it clear.  Senator Greenwood,  the Attorney-General, realises why there was opposition. The opposition to the Springbok tour was - this is clear and it should never be mistaken-- 
It was violent opposition- 
It was violent opposition against the violent imposition of the law. 
This was violent opposition against a law imposed by insensitive governments. I must answer this because a charge was made and indirectly it involved me. The charge was clearly made that, there was violence against a particular team. Let me make it clear that that team was selected on the basis of racial discrimination. It was appointed on conditions which did not allow a person who was excluded any redress because he happened to be black. He was not excluded because he happened to be a communist, a liberal, or a fascist; he was excluded because he happened to be black - nothing more or less. This was the base of the opposition and this was the base of the reaction against governments which permitted the entry of such a team into Australia. Such will be the basis of opposition to any team which is selected on a religious or racist criterion. I make it quite clear that the opposition was not based on any other reason. No matter what the Government does to misinterpret this situation and no matter what  Senator Gair  does to misinterpret it, it is clear that those men who were excluded from the South African Springbok team were excluded for no other reason than the pigment of their skin. They were black. Violence and atrocity are perpetrated-- 
I will conclude my remarks. 1 have merely exercised my right to take advantage of the extension by  Senator Gair  of the terms of the debate.  Senator Gair  has provoked me into making certain statements which I should have made prior to this. 
 Senator Gair- 
I draw my argument to a close, but I must, as an interjection was made, explain the incident which occurred. A young man at that demonstration 
All right. I will answer it at another stage. I will take the opportunity to answer  Senator Gair's  allegations on the adjournment tonight. But let me return to the matter that is before the Senate. I support emphatically what the Leader of the Opposition has said. The atrocity of Munich cannot be condoned; neither can any retaliation to such atrocity be condoned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. Will the Department of Health assure the Senate that it will resist any attempt to lift the permissible level of mercury contamination in fish or other foodstuffs? Will the Department give the necessary information to those who seek to lift the permissible level so that they may be impressed with the threat that is posed to the health of the community? Will the Department carry out an educational programme in this respect to make the public fully aware of the extreme danger of excess mercury contamination to the nervous system of a human being? 
 Mr Acting Deputy President- 
Has someone called a point of order,  Mr Acting Deputy  President? I will yield if there is a point of order, but if it was only an idle interjection 1 will ignore it. 1 am one of those who would seek to expedite the passage of this Budget so that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  may keep his promise that once the Budget has been passed and all the associated measures debated he will be prepared to go to the people. Nothing would please me more and nothing would please the Australian Labor Party more than for the election to be held forthwith. Nothing would please the people of Australia more than to have a quick election and nothing would serve the nation better than a change of government, which will be the inevitable result of an election. It is inevitable because of the poor leadership that has been the characteristic of this Government for at least the last 3 years. The Government is bereft of the initiatives that are needed by the nation at this time. It has been divided by its internal disputes, by its internal factions, by its infighting, by its intrigue and by its personality clashes. 
The sooner there is an end to this the better. But there is now some doubt that there  will  be an early  election.  The doubt has been raised by the recent public opinion polls coming from 2 directions which indicate that this Budget, which is supposed to have won widespread acclaim, is a Budget which has had little impact; that this Budget, which is supposed to be so generous - it is generous in certain directions, especially when compared with previous Budgets - has failed to arouse the people of Australia to the point where they will continue to express their support for the Government. It is fairly obvious that the public opinion polls show that the Budget had but a 1 per cent impact. So the Prime Minister is now dilly-dallying He has refused to declare when an election will be held. I fear that the election will be postponed until the latest possible moment because no time is suitable for the Government to hold an election and no time is suitable for the Prime Minister to face the people. 
I am not worried about it. I am merely stating that the sooner an election is held the better. 
No. I believe that  Senator Gair,  who is about to leave the chamber, should stay to listen to my remarks. The sooner an election is held the better. There is a great need for a change of government if democracy, as we should define it, is to be maintained in this country. No system of government that allows one party to stay in power for 23 years will survive. 
The people, by their vote, have decided in the greatest numbers to support the Austraiian Labor Party, in lesser numbers to support the Liberal Party, in even lesser numbers to support the Australian Country Party and in still lesser numbers to support the Australian Democratic Labor Party. But by mutual arrangements and exchange of policies and support what results is a government that represents an accumulation of ideas and an accumulation of parties. It is a coalition which is opposed to the strongest party - the party with the strongest support in this country. That is the Australian Labor Party. 
The point that I am making is that the Government sits on the administrative benches not because of its own record or its support in the electorate but because of the support of the splinter group or the minority group which, as I have said before, is the Australian Democratic Labor Party. There only rests the hope of Government members for a successful result in this coming election. Their only chance in this coming election rests with a maximising of the. Democratic Labor Party vote. It is in that direction that we will find given the support of those people who desire to see the destruction of the Australian Labor Party and the perpetuation of its term on the Opposition benches. But in spite of what the Government had expected from this Budget the people at least have responded with a cynicism which has indicated clearly that they will not support the Government. At the. coming election there will be a change of government. This change of government will break one long line of mislegislation, patronage of supporters and friends and the permitting of abuses. 
The DLP in this coming election will be negated. 
Let us see. 
I am suggesting that the matter be put to the test. 
The honourable senator ought not. to be so vocal because he represents a small sectional party which has submerged its policies and its effectiveness because it supports a party that is supported by the vested interests that exploit the people that the honourable senator is supposed to represent. The Country Party which purports to represent the people who live and earn their incomes by their effort in the vast areas of Australia has denied these people continually by this coalition. This is evidenced in many places. The prices that the primary producer receives for his goods are far less than he ought to receive when one measures the prices for the end products.  Senator Little,  who is attempting to interject, should confine himself to the distribution of literature which is produced mostly outside this country. Let me return to the Country Party. 
The honourable senator, because of this coalition support of the Liberal Party, has been responsible for allowing savage margins of profit to be earned on the production of goods in the rural sector of the economy. 
The honourable senator knows as well as I that the primary producer receives the minimum for his effort and the distributor of those goods receives the maximum profit. The huge pastoral companies and the huge financial concerns, together with the distributors, reap the reward that should be earned by the primary producer. But the Country Party, over a number of years - in fact, for the whole of the period for which it has been in coalition with the Liberal Party - has let down and betrayed the rural sector. There is no doubt about this and I cannot quite understand why the Country Party continues in coalition except to serve the interests of those who gained political representation and perhaps some administrative or executive position. 
On an ad hoc basis the Budget, in a variety of directions, has made available certain moneys to relieve the need of pensioners, and those on fixed incomes and has given, in some measure taxation relief. But these are arrangements which have been made by a Government which faces an election in complete disarray.  Senator Davidson  suggested that we object to these measures. One does not object to them in any way. We merely object to the fact that they are not in any way connected to some national plan of development and not in any way projected forward to allow for a plan for progress and for improvement of the people generally of this nation. There is no positive plan for national development. There is no positive plan for the development of secondary industry or rural industry. In fact, there is no connected plan in this Budget that would give any hope, guide or incentive to those who produce, construct or manufacture. For this reasons, the Australian Labor Party condemns this Budget. 
I am going to take an opportunity while 1 am on my feet to state a few cases which I would normally mention during the adjournment debate. One matter is in connection with a question which I asked and which contained an allegation about the tax affairs of Patrick Partners of New South Wales. 
I am not. At this stage I merely explain the purpose of my question. I wanted to disclose that the Government and its Ministers, in particular one Minister, had shown patronage or privilege to powerful people - to powerful friends. Previously I had asked questions about the sale of certain aircraft by Jetair Australia Ltd to the Department of External Affairs - as it was then called - to enable the Department to fill a requirement in Cambodia. The question was asked quite some time ago. At that stage I indicated that I felt that the Department tailored its requirement to suit the Jetair fleet, which had become redundant. Jetair was in a serious financial position. One of the chief directors of Jetair was Alexander Barton. He had close connections with members of the Government in high places. The Minister for External Affairs at that time was  Mr McMahon.  The questions sought to discover why the Department, under his leadership, should come to a most unusual arrangement to acquire the aircraft. An arrangement was entered into instead of the purchase going through the necessary channels of tendering through the Department of Supply for the aircraft. I made the statement that there seemed to be evidence of patronage on the part of the Minister to suit a particular friend - a particularly powerful friend, a leading financier and a leading stockbroker. 
It is an allegation of patronage. 
The purpose of being a senator is to disclose in this place what appears to be- 
What appears to be. A senator is given the power to bring forward in this place material which discloses certain information for debate. The purpose of privilege is to allow members and senators to expose certain things without fear of retribution from powerful men. There are in this country powerful men who misuse the forms of government and who through the use of close association and by taking advantage of patronage gain for themselves an advantage. At that time Alexander Barton and Jetair gained an advantage. The then Minister for External Affairs was the present Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon. 
I now discuss another series of events which I believe should be disclosed. A firm of stockbrokers was able to challenge a taxation assessment by the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales. That was its right to challenge an assessment. It was able to challenge an assessment, appeal against it, have that appeal overruled and go through the necessary procedures and the various stages that are allowed for. It was able to proceed through all these stages in New South Wales and to have the matter transferred to the Commissioner of Taxation in Canberra. One would have expected the matter to have proceeded to a court for determination. The assessment involved about $2.5m. Suddenly, without referral to a court for determination so that previous events could be disclosed and so that we could know why the Commissioner of Taxation changed his mind and withdrew the assessment, the assessment was withdrawn. 
There was representation to the Prime Minister by  Mr Dowling  of Patrick Partners. An appointment was made. Before it was kept the assessment was withdrawn. The Prime Minister has admitted that fact. I understand that  Mr Dowling  was able to take advantage of his connections within the Liberal Party to have the assessment withdrawn. I raise the matter again because indirectly in my original question I did an injustice to the  Deputy  Commissioner in New South Wales. 
I have not. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a  State Parliament, or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
 Mr President,  1 accept what you say with, if I may, some reservations. 
 1 have a small right of retaliation if in another place the Treasurer should describe my questioning of this series of events as despicable. I accept that he has  a  right to disagree if he so wishes but I also - and I am not sensitive - have a right to respond in the way in which I am responding at the present time.  I  am exercising some restraint. 1 have not accused the Prime Minister of corruption. That was suggested by  Senator McManus. 
 Let me proceed to the point I was wishing to make. In asking the questions 1 did reflect upon the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales when I said that he gave way to what I termed intimidation. I was not to know at that time that the tax assessment of Patrick Partners which should have been in the province of the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales had moved into the area of responsibility  of  the Commissioner himself. I have certain questions on the notice paper which have not been answered. I have raised certain points by way of question. The original questions were almost immediately answered by the Treasurer who stated that no information could be given on matters of taxation which concerned an individual taxpayer. In this case an individual was defined as including bodies corporate, companies, and groups of individuals. Because of the secrecy provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act no information could be given, lt was for this reason that I asked why the assessment, having proceeded so far, had been withdrawn; that I questioned the making of an appointment with the Prime Minister; and that I questioned the withdrawal of such an assessment. But let me first apologise - as I indicated to  Senator Withers  in response to an interjection - to the  Deputy  Commissioner in New South Wales. I did him an injustice. The allegation which I made should have been directed to the Commissioner and to the Prime Minister. There the matter stands. 
 I am saying that this Government has been in power for so long that it serves its friends well. If there were no other reason for a change of Government this is one good reason. The Government has been here too long. It is not at arm's length from its friends. It serves its friends well. There should be a change of government. There will be a change of government in spite of the beneficial nature of certain parts of this Budget. 
 The allegations which I am making- 
It is not. As  a  matter of fact, the assessment has been withdrawn and we are not to be told why it has been withdrawn. 
 The allegation is that it was because of the- 
No, I am not working it out. It is clear by way of question. If the honourable senator wants to read my questions, then read them. If he wants to read my questions on notice, then read them. What I am saying is clearly that this Government and its Ministers have shown favouritism to people in high places. 
Australian community except in a speech in the Senate?  Senator Georges  has exercised his right. No-one can accept what  Senator Georges  has said other than as his opinion of what has happened in relation to this incident. He is entitled to that opinion. Those who disagree with the opinion can rise and disagree with it in the ordinary course of debate on the Budget.  Senator George's  argument has some undesirable features because he supports it by facts. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections of Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 

 Senator Georges said that the Prime Minister and his Ministers have behaved improperly. Accordingly,  Mr President,  under standing order 423, I require those words to be taken down so that we may study them. After we see the Hansard report we will know whether to proceed or not. 
A senator may criticise whomsoever he pleases, including a member of another place provided he wakes no offensive reflections on such a member. 
On a subsequent occasion  Mr President  Givens ruled: 
A senator may refer to a general policy of a party in any terms that he may choose to use provided it is not offensive to any senator. 
On another occasion  Mr President  Givens ruled: 
A statement of fact is in order. To impute improper motives is out of order. 
If  Senator Georges  feels strongly about this he must formalise his imputations and his accusations and put them in terms of a formal motion before the Senate. Having said that,  Senator Georges,  I invite you to continue your remarks in the context of the Budget debate but to refrain from being offensive in accordance with the Standing Orders which I have quoted and the rulings which I have given. 
When any senator objects to words used in debate, and desires them to be taken down, the  President  shall direct them to be taken down by the  Clerk  accordingly: 
That would seem to me to indicate that what is expected is not that someone will come in and write down the words, but that on objection being taken you should say to the Clerk: 'Will you take down the words which have been uttered by  Senator Georges  to which people are objecting?' 
 Mr President,  I refrain from speaking to the point of order because naturally I had the advantage of addressing you at length. 1 at least take the view that what I did imply, which seems to be so objectionable but which cannot be denned by either of the senators who have objected, was favouritism and patronage. 
Then I take it that the matter will be resolved tomorrow. 
I do not think  Senator Cotton  is aware of what I did say. 
It is not a matter of not being game to say it because for the last 20 minutes I have been saying exactly what honourable senators opposite have been objecting to. But they are so sensitive to criticism of this sort that they have jumped up to take points of order in a premature way, not being aware of what they are- 
I am accusing the Prime Minister of patronage. I say that patronage is not, in effect, imputing improper behaviour. Patronage is a failing of a government that has been in power for far too long. Where is the improper motive when I assert favouritism or patronage? 
 Mr President,  we are at variance on definition. I am accusing the Prime Minister of patronage. If you rule that by accusing the Prime Minister of patronage I am accusing him of improper conduct in the strict parliamentary sense - if you define it that way - then perhaps I might consider withdrawing it. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of  such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal - 
I pause there. A total prohibition is imposed. No member shall use offensive words against either House or any member unless for the repeal of some legislation. If anyone uses offensive words against either House or any member he contravenes the Standing Orders and I take it that appropriate action must be taken. But there is no prohibition against any member making imputations. The first part of standing order 418 states that no senator shall use offensive words. He cannot do it. It is a breach of the Standing Orders. But, turning to the remaining part of standing order 418, we find that it reads: 
. and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
My point of order is based on the fact that there are certain things that a senator cannot do. There is a penalty for doing something that a senator cannot do. Possibly it is expulsion from the Senate. But there is no prohibition against imputations. These are considered highly disorderly. 
If any  Senator- 
persistently and wilfully obstructs the business of the Senate; 
No-one suggests that  Senator Georges  has done that, and  Senator Rae  would agree with me on that - 
Guilty of disorderly conduct-- 

 Senator Rae refers to disorderly conduct as mentioned in standing order 4t8. I do not know whether he means that a personal reflection on a member shall be considered highly disorderly and is therefore disorderly conduct. Standing order 438 provides that if a senator is guilty of disorderly conduct - the word 'conduct' is not used in standing order 418  -  then the  President- 
Orders but also he has a responsibility to expose the matter to the Senate on this occasion. That is what has happened. 
On this occasion  Senator Georges,  when he was interrupted, was in the process not only of making an imputation but also of supporting it by facts. What is now an imputation is factual. This can be so resolved.  Senator Georges  can be belittled or can be disgraced. It can be shown that he has no backing for his accusation. These things can happen if the Minister will answer the questions that  Senator Georges  has raised. Will the Minister answer these questions: Was an assessment made? Were representations made to the Prime Minister? Was the assessment withdrawn? What can a senator discharging his responsibility to the electors do when he feels that there is corruption in the Public Service other than to expose that corruption to this House under privilege for the purpose of obtaining a reply? 
With all due respect to the point of order that has been raised, I suggest that  Senator Georges  is operating well within the ambit of standing order 418, that he has used no offensive words against either House of the Parliament, or any member of such House, or any House of a State parliament or against any statute, but that he has made imputations of improper motives and has personally reflected on a member. I think you have the right,  Mr President,  to consider that any disorderliness in what he has done is overcome by the fact that there is operating in this field something which justifies exposure to the public. Because the Prime Minister and the Liberal Government cannot stand up to it, the decision has been to exert pressure on  Senator Georges  to withdraw his remarks. It will stand on the records and until the question is answered it must so stand. 
I must seek your guidance,  Mr President.  Let me clearly and briefly state what I have implied. I have stated that when the Prime Minister was Minister for Foreign Affairs he exercised patronage in the purchase by his Department of Jetair aircraft. I said further that the Prime Minister exercised patronage in the matter of a tax assessment. 
Wait a moment. 
I would say that that sort of action on the part of any member of Parliament is highly improper. 
 Mr President,  I would like to clear up a matter.  Senator Gair  indicated in his contribution tonight that he is twice as old as I am. That would make him 104 years of age, which possibly explains some of his behaviour from time to time. I want to make certain that I am not considered to be half his age. That would make me much younger than I am. I thought that point should be cleared up. 1 take  Senator Gair  up on one point - that it is the righof the leader of a government to set the date of an election. I think it is high time that this power - this privilege - was taken away from the leader of a government. There should be a set time for a general election, unless the government is defeated on the floor of the House. There is much to be said in favour of this suggestion. 1 think it should be discussed and considered as one of the necessary reforms for this place. I do not see why the whole of the Parliament should wait upon the decision of one man. I think that the matter could be resolved conveniently by determining that the election shall be held at a particular time so that all organisational matters in relation to the election can be attended to properly. 
We have been asked by the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate'  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  to work longer hours. I assure him and  Senator Gair  that if they were to determine that the election should be held in 3 weeks' time we would be prepared to sit each day of the week each week for as many hours as arc required to finish the business of the Senate. Any allegation or charge against us that we are not prepared to do the work is ill-founded. We are prepared to do the work. All we are saying is that we ought not to be asked to undertake a programme of extra work unless we know what that work actually is and what is required. The proposition that the alteration of sitting hours should be postponed until we know more definitely when the election is likely to be is a reasonable one and I think it should be considered. 
That is not pertinent. It has no relation to the motion. 
I am not in favour of the elections that are held in other countries. I inform the honourable senator that some members of the Commonwealth have one-party systems of government and that these systems are recommended there. What happens in the Soviet Union or in China ought not to be held up as an example. 
I would riot - want a one-party system. I think that last night, before 1 got into trouble, I advocated a more frequent change of government. If we are to have a responsive government and a government that is sensitive to the will of the people then the system of democracy should be such that the government can be readily changed. Under the present system of elections, by virtue of the support of the Democratic Labor Party for the Liberal-Country Party coalition, we have virtually had a one-party system of government for years. 
Do not talk about a one-party system. We have it here. 
Do not suggest that I want a one-party system. 
I will not be diverted. Apparently I do not have the same sort of protection that the leader of a Party has. I am not questioning your previous ruling,  Mr President.  I accepted it. You will notice that I was silent for at least 10 minutes. I have not the same protection as a leader. I am not the leader of a Party. 
1 do not desire to be. 
I fill a role in my Party. I consider my role to be satisfactory. I have no aspirations to the leadership. Therefore I am never likely to make the proud statement that I was the leader of the State government for a particularly lengthy term. I do not want to take away from  Senator Gair  any credit that he gives himself for the power that he holds. I merely question his right to have that power. No-one says that he is not a powerful man. 
When I sit in the streets I am questioning a poor law. 1 am being diverted. In conclusion I complain that it seems to be possible for a senator in this place to cast a reflection on a member of another place - a leader in the other place - and accuse him of aboulia, which to me sounds highly offensive, or of being weak or of being handicapped, and that senator can survive. If another senator accuses that leader of patronage he gets thrown out on his ear. I wonder whether that situation could be taken into consideration in future. 
During the debate today  Senator Hannan  referred to one, Marjan Jurjevic, as a spy and a traitor and said he had fought in the Nazi Army. As  Senator Hannan  has left the chamber I give notice that I will take this matter up on the adjournment debate tomorrow night since I was deprived of the opportunity of doing so during the debate tonight by the application of the gag. 
I would like your guidance on this,  Mr President.  A man was today defamed and I think it is necessary- 
I will seek the advice of the  Clerk.  Thank you. 
 I wish to ask a question but I did pass a remark' about the repressive attitude of the Attorney-General. 
I wish to ask the Attorney-General a question but it is not the question which I was going to ask in the first place. Are we to understand from the answer given to the last question that the Attorney-General is about to take repressive action against the Press because he disagrees with its ability to report correctly his statements and statements made by various Ministers? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. In view of the allegations referred to by  Senator Hannan  that the Yugoslav secret police are operating in Australia, will he reconsider his hesitation to appoint a royal commission so that its investigations may determine the truth of this as well as the truth concerning the recent acts of terrorism? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that at the end of this year the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation will have cost the nation $41,524,720? Will he admit that the recent acts of terrorism in Sydney, followed by many bomb hoaxes and now' the allegations of secret police acitivity arc a threat to the security of this nation? Will he tell the Senate exactly what the security service is doing and what it has done to allow such a state of affairs to exist and to continue to exist? 
 I wish to enter the debate mainly to clear up a point upon which I have been misrepresented by  Senator Bonner. 
I have not spoken yet, but I am speaking now. 
1 take the opportunity to speak to the motion for the disallowance of the Ordinance because briefly I did object to the manner in which the Ordinance was brought down in the first place. Secondly, I was one of those people who left Parliament House - perhaps I was a little later than some other honourable senators - fairly late, at about 12.30 a.m., on the night or the morning when the embassy was removed. I was told at the time that the Ordinance had been printed and hurried through and that the embassy would be removed within half an hour. So I waited for some time and nothing happened, although I do believe that the police who were on guard at the door had communications, by radio, with police headquarters. As I say, nothing happened. Then I decided to leave because it seemed to be strange that the Ordinance should be suddenly printed in the early hours of the morning and that the embassy should be removed in the early hours of the morning. Apparently I had no sooner left than the police, for some reason or other, decided to use the powers of the newly gazetted Ordinance to remove the 2 tents and the few people who were there. It seemed to me to be a rather underhand way of doing it. The way the Ordinance was brought down does reflect on the original promulgation of the Ordinance in that it was done after the Parliament had risen; it was done so that the embassy could be shifted without interference by members of Parliament, lt was done in an underhand way. 
I think that the Government was embarrassed by the embassy. To me it seemed to be an act of protest on the part of a few people who could have been allowed to remain there until such time as they had tired of the protest. The embassy seems to have offended many people. It seems to have offended  Senator Bonner.  It did not offend me. It has been suggested here today that other persons' rights were affected by the embassy being there on a small plot of ground and that the ground was needed by somebody else for their use. I do not think that anybody objected. Nobody claimed that they wanted to use that particular piece of lawn. No-one made a formal protest. The embassy, as it was called, could have remained. 

 Senator Bonner, in his speech, made a firm declaration. Perhaps it is not in the words that I shall now use - I will have a look at the Hansard report tomorrow to see the exact words. He said that 1 was one of those who would or did incite Aborigines to violent action. I want  Senator Bonner  to state clearly to me just how and when I have been associated actively with the Aboriginal protest. Perhaps, to my shame. I have not been associated directly with this particular protest. I do not think - and perhaps this is to my discredit - that I ever spoke to or approached the people in the embassy. 
The embassy was there and it made its point. I did not at any time take part in any activity or protest on behalf of the Aborigines here in Canberra or in Brisbane. I have taken an active part in other protests and demonstrations. In fact, I have taken part in protests and demonstrations in support of racial tolerance. I have taken part in demonstrations that were opposed to racialism because my attitude has always been that racialism is the lowest form, the most despicable form of human altitude, lt offends me for  Senator Bonner  to say that I would incite anyone - let alone an Aborigine - to an act of violence. 

 Senator Bonner has been here long enough to know that he must stand upon his own feet. We do not patronise him.  His  Party patronises him; the Government patronises him. There was a protest by a Minister sitting on the front bench - I think it was  Senator Cotton.  He objected to the fact that 1 sought to impose upon  Senator Bonner  a rule of this place, namely, that he shall not read a speech.  Senator Cotton  was offended because 1 did that. 
That is beside the point.  Senator Cotton  believed that  Senator Bonner  whs entitled to special privileges.  Senator Bonner  can do better on his own without your patronising attitude. 
Then do not patronise him. Your very attitude to  Senator Bonner  when he is speaking or when he might come under a barrage of interjections is patronising, and it does you a disservice and it docs  Senator Bonner  a disservice. I think even the  President  indicated that on 2 grounds  Senator Bonner  ought to have protection.  Senator Bonner  represents the State of Queensland; he represents the people of Queensland. He needs no defence merely because he happens to be an Aborigine. He would be far more capable of fighting his cause - I think he suspects this from time to time - if he were on this side of the chamber. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Withers)  - I ask the honourable senator to come back to the motion. 
1 am dealing with the point. These matters were raised in the debate. 
I am not uncomfortable. When honourable senators opposite claim that theirs is the first Party to have an Aborigine as a member I suggest that they should not press that claim too much. Do not remind us of the despicable manoeuvres that were undertaken in 
Queensland so that  Senator Bonner  would not be endorsed or elected. Do not raise this question again because we are likely to disclose the intrigues within Queensland, the search for an excuse not to endorse him this time. 
I might refer to certain stories not related to little Red Riding Hood in the debate on the adjournment tonight. I trust that the honourable senator will do me the courtesy of being present. The Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance was introduced in secrecy and carried out in stealth. On those grounds I believe that it should be disallowed. It should be disallowed if only to enable the group of Aborigines who sought to protest in the way that they did to reerect their tents in front of this place so that there may be a constant reminder to us that something needs to be done in greater depth and that we need a better understanding than  Senator Little  brought to this problem. There is need for a better understanding in greater depth that something more has to be done. This year $53 m is to be spent on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders throughout this country. 
No, it does not, and it does not include social services. If we add all those things we come to $100m at least which will be spent on Aborigines this year. I am hoping that it will achieve a better end result for the ordinary Aborigine than was achieved last year and that the money will not flow into vested areas, to created positions, to empire building within a department in a way which will absorb the money and which will be of no use to the Aborigines and their families. We must look at this carefully. The Ordinance should be disallowed.  Senator Bonner  has said that there is another law. I should like to know what that law is. As a first question I asked him what that law was and that led him to retaliate in what I termed an offensive manner. 
No, as a matter of fact I have supported him. I have just said that honourable senators opposite patronise him and will not allow him to stand on his own feet, that he is capable of entering into any debate. 
 I am quite prepared to withdraw what the honourable senator thinks I said but which I did not say. I said the exact opposite. I said that the honourable senator was perfectly capable of standing on his own feet and had proved that he could do so without assistance from his colleagues. That is what I am saying. As a matter of fact it is a compliment. To my knowledge this Ordinance is the only power that prevents the tents from being re-erected, although  Senator Bonner  may have other knowledge. If there is other power this Ordinance need not have been brought down. Let us disallow it and see what the other law is. I repeat that the Ordinance is not necessary. I suggest that we are of sufficient maturity to allow any group, whoever they may be, to demonstrate peacefully outside this place. It is a sign of political adulthood and it shows a maturity within the society when a hunger striker can stay there for as long as he wishes to state his case or when a group of Aborigines may erect some tattered tents and stay there for as long as they wish. In my view their demonstration proved to be effective, and it seems that the Government knows that it was effective - otherwise it would not have gone to this extreme trouble to have them removed. 
I refer the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate to an answer by the Attorney-General to a question  iD  which he criticised the Press of prejudiced, slanted and selective reporting and of being answerable to no-one. Will he ask the Prime Minister to assure Australians that these illiberal statements do not express Government policy? Is he aware, as the 'Sydney Morning Herald' has clearly stated, that this reassurance is needed and will be expected? 
In spite of the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  gave a clear undertaking in a Press statement he issued on 22nd September 1972 that all the papers relating to the Jetair purchase would be produced in the Senate today, this has not happened. I am concerned at this failure. The statement said: 
The Government was ready to table all the papers relating to the purchase of the aircraft and it would do so when Parliament met next Tuesday. 
The statement continued: 

 Mr Bowen said that be had not had an  opportunity himself  to  study the file in detail but that  he had a  firm assurance  from  his Department and  the  Department of Supply that the papers did not  include a letter  from  Mr Fraser  . . . 
My first question is: Why have not the papers been tabled today, as was undertaken clearly by the Minister for Foreign Affairs? Can we be assured that further disagreement has not arisen as to the need to table these papers? Can we be assured further that, in spite of what the Minister has said, the letter from  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, in his capacity as Acting Minister for Supply, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be part of the papers which are tabled? 
Despite the Minister's denial that such a letter exists, reports have appeared in the Press to the effect that it does exist. The Melbourne 'Sun' on Saturday, 23rd September 1972, reported: 
A senior official told the 'Sun' last night  Mr Fraser  had sent a minute to the Foreign Affairs Department pointing out that the purchase offer made to Jetair was irregular. 
The official said  Mr Fraser  had insisted that the purchase could not go through until the Supply Department investigated to make sure better planes were not available at a lower price. 
It was also learned last night that at one stage the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  called for the file. 
This information adds further to the irregularities pointed out by the Opposition and the independent senator,  Senator Turnbull.  But the papers have not been tabled today, contrary to the firm promise by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is there a further disagreement? Is there now an attempt to table only some of the papers or at least to exclude that letter which is important to the whole of the papers? Is there now an attempt to cover up the disagreement which existed at the time between the Department of Supply and the Department of Foreign Affairs? I think it is only right that we should have some explanation why the papers have not been tabled. I seek that explanation from  Senator Wright  who represents here the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Was a Yugoslav arrested in Melbourne over the weekend and did this Yugoslav claim to be a paid assassin? Has this claim been investigated and, if it has, what is the result? 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Under which powers and for what reasons has the Attorney-General's Department declined to proclaim and recognise the Autocephalic Greek Orthodox Church in Australia. 
Why has it taken the Attorney-General's Department so long to establish the viability of the Autocephalic Greek Orthodox Church in Australia. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) The power to proclaim a religious body lo be a recognised denomination for the purposes of the Marriage Act 1961-1966 is vested in the Governor-General by section 26 of that Act. In July 1971 the then Attorney-General, as the Minister responsible for the administration of the Act, informed the Autocephalic Greek Orthodox Church of America and Australia that he was not prepared to recommend that it be recognised because he had reservations about its long-term stability. The Church has recently re-applied for recognition under the Act and I have the matter under consideration. 
On 2 occasions today the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  gave us some information concerning what was termed to be a hijack of a plane out of Sydney Airport to Singapore. Will the Minister make a further statement in this connection? Will he advise us before we rise tonight whether the whole thing was a hoax, and if it were a hoax did he intend to allow the Senate to rise without telling us, and if that is the case, what is the explanation? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Was a Yugoslav arrested in Melbourne over the weekend? Was that Yugoslavia subject to a deportation order? What was the reason for that deportation order? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Why, in his answers to the 2 questions asked by  Senator Wood,  did he not acknowledge the strong question asked by  Senator Wheeldon  which firmly defined the attitude of the Opposition in relation to what i.s going on in Uganda so that  Senator Wood,  who was obviously not in the chamber at the time, could be properly informed? 
I hope that you do not think that I am a like-minded senator. 
I hope that I am not being accused of improper behaviour. 
It is just that I was seeking to assist the Senate by not rising at an earlier stage. 
-I address a question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. If, as  Sir Kenneth  Bailey stated, the method of contracting by the Department of Foreign Affairs with 
Jetair Australia Ltd was as irregular a procedure as it is possible to conceive, why is it that there has been no mention of it in the Auditor-General's report? 
As the Minister  representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so well informed about Jetair Australia Ltd, can he explain the extraordinary haste in seeking the official approval of the then Foreign Minister,  Mr McMahon,  for the purchase of the 6 Jetair DC3 aircraft? What reasonable explanation is there for the fact that on 31st December 1970 the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs recommended to  Mr McMahon  that the purchase of the Jetair aircraft be accepted and that  Mr McMahon  gave his handwritten approval within 4 hours - in fact, on New Year's Day, 1st January 1971? Why did  Mr McMahon  find it necessary to give his approval in such haste and on such a day? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport is supplementary to that asked by  Senator Bonner.  Is the Minister aware that petrol reserves in Australia generally, not only in Queensland, are at an all time low and will continue at this level for some time? Is it not a fact that South Australia, Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, in that order, face a serious position if even a minor breakdown in refining occurs? What has the Department of Shipping and Transport done to support and encourage imports of refined spirit to supplement local supplies? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the shortage of petrol in Queensland and New South Wales will handicap severely the harvesting of grain, especially wheat? What action has his Department taken to give some priority of supply to rural producers in these grain growing areas? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. I refer again to the critical situation with regard to petrol supplies in Australia. What is the Department of Labour and National Service doing to anticipate any further conflict  between the unions and the oil companies, particularly in view of the low level of petrol supplies in this country? Is the Minister aware that further awards are about to be negotiated? Will the Department ensure that the fullest co-operation is given to both parties to prevent a further confrontation? Will the Minister investigate the report that overseas oil monopolies are witholding supplies of refined spirit in anticipation of such a confrontation so that when it occurs the nation will be crippled? 
I have u further question which this time I direct to the Minister for Health who I presume has been given some reading material during his convalescence. Is it a fact that the Northern Territory Legislative Council has just completed a report on the operations of the Minister's Department in the Territory? Was this report extremely critical of the Department's operations and did it describe the system as domineering, cumbersome and outmoded? Will the Minister explain why the Northern Territory Director of Health,  Dr Langsford,  was suddenly transferred back to Canberra when this report was presented? As the report shows a state of chaos in the Department of Health in the Northern Territory, what steps will be taken by the Minister to restructure and re-form the Department since the Aboriginal mortality rate continues unchecked and dedicated doctors continue to resign? 
There are, of course, a number of inaccuracies inherent in the question as posed. The inquiry mentioned by the honourable senator was not confined to the activities of the Department of Health but was related to health matters generally in the Territory. Obviously the honourable senator is unaware that these matters were not entirely within the responsibility of the Department of Health. I commend to the honourable senator a statement which I issued on 3rd October, and which was circulated at that time. The honourable senator should have received a copy of that. Obviously he has not read it so far, but I hope he will read it. In that statement which I made on 3rd October and which I commend to  Senator Georges  and other honourable senators I pointed out that as at July this year, in response to representations which I made to the Government, health services in the Territory were brought under the control of the Department of Health. 1 mentioned also that the Department of Health will now have far wider responsibility than it had before for health in the Territory. 1 think I have said in this place in relation to other health matters, and certainly 1 put this view in my representations on this issue, that one does not have to be a medical practitioner to be able to say simply and with complete confidence that prevention is better than cure. As a consequence of the decision of Government as at July this year the Department of Health will be taking over not only the administration of health in terms of hospitalisation and the like but also it will be taking over responsibility for health in people's homes and particularly in the settlements. 
The honourable senator mentioned that the Director of Health in the Northern Territory had been transferred back to the Canberra office. I remind the honourable senator that the report which has been mentioned comprises about 200 pages and contains about 150 recommendations of various kinds. In saying that I point out that I am speaking off the cuff on my first day back. Very properly the Department of Health and other departments will have to examine the recommendations contained in the report. In the same way as the honourable senator has a right to ask questions about the report, the Minister and officers of the Department must obtain reports on the recommendations which number closer to 150 than 100.  Dr Langsford  is in Canberra. I am sure that everybody will agree that at the head office of the Department of Health he and other senior officers are very properly examining the report which has been submitted. At a later date I hope to be able to make a supplementary response on this issue. Nevertheless I want it to be abundantly clear that I have already issued a statement. I pointed out in that statement what we are doing in terms of providing new hospitals in the Alice Springs and Darwin areas. I also pointed out that the Department of Health has been since July accepting far greater responsibility in relation to health in the Northern Territory. We are going through the administrative changeover at the present time but of course it will take a certain amount of time. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Was an assessment made against Patrick Partners by the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales; if so, was the assessment objected to and the objection overruled.: 
Was an appeal then made by Patrick Partners and was it rejected; if so, was the matter then referred to the Commissioner of Taxation for his consideration. 
Is it a fact that, subsequent to an appointment being made by  Mr Dowling  of Patrick Partners with the Prime Minister, the assessment was withdrawn. 
Is the tax assessment in the vicinity of $2.5m, and will the Treasurer state why the matter was not referred to a court for determination, so that a full disclosure of the principles and policies involved could be given for the benefit of all taxpayers, especially those who may have been similarly assessed. 

 Senator SIR KENNETH ANDERSON - The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
to (3) I do not have any knowledge of the events the honourable senator has described. 
I have no knowledge of an assessment such as the honourable senator has described and I have no access to the details of any assessments which the Commissioner may have made in this or any other case.I have not asked the Commissioner for any information relating to the income tax affairs of the Patrick Partners and I have not received any such information from him. Section 16 (5a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act expressly prohibits the Commissioner from providing me with any such information. The Commissioner has nevertheless assured me that any decisions relating to these taxpayers, or indeed any other taxpayers, would have been made within his office on the basis of an independent interpretation and application of the relevant provisions of the income tax law. 
In speaking on the adjournment debate tonight,  Senator Mulvihill  referred to a letter which he has passed to me and which I have read. One paragraph in that letter attracts my attention and I wish to draw the attention of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  to it. In this letter reference is made, as  Senator Mulvihill  said, to people who were considered to have dual nationality, in particular Greeks. It is the latter part of the paragraph that I will read which disturbs me. The letter states: 
When such persons are in the country of second nationality, (including a country which permits holders of Australian passports to enter without visas) their Australian citizenship  may  not exempt them from obligations such as military service in that country. 
The next sentence in this paragraph is the part of the letter that I question. J should mention that the letter is signed by the Honourable A. J. Forbes, Minister for Immigration. The relevant paragraph continues: 
They may be claimed as nationals of that country in which case Her Majesty's representatives abroad are unable to intercede on their behalf with the authorities of that country.  f question that part of the letter. 
I instance the case of an Australian citizen who by some chance enters a country which considers that he is one of its nationals and who is in some way restricted in his movements in that country. Am I to understand from this letter that in such a case our authorities in that country are unable to intercede on behalf of that Australian citizen? If that is the case, what is Australia and the Department of Foreign Affairs dein* to alter the situation? Surely, even though a case of dual nationality may be involved, our authorities have the right to intercede. I ask the Minister to consider this question and to verify that our authorities do have the right to intercede on behalf of Australian citizens in spite of the fact that those citizens may be claimed as nationals by another country. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Will he indicate what progress has been made with investigations of the recent bombing outrages in Sydney? Will he accept that the N.S.W. police force has now had sufficient time to carry out its investigations and to come up with a result? Will he accept that it is now time for the Commonwealth police force to act more forcibly in the matter? Will he indicate when this Parliament can expect a report on the matter? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning the document that he has tabled. If, as Alexander Barton has declared in that document, Jetair Australia Ltd was not in financial difficulties, why do pilots of that company still remain unpaid and why was it necessary for the Department of Civil Aviation to ask that $50,000 in ground fees be deducted from any amount paid to Jetair for aircraft purchased from it? Am I to take it from what the Minister has said this morning that the Minister is prepared to take the word of Alexander Barton, who has proved himself to be one of the greatest financial spivs in this country-- 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I regret that I have to add to his work. I refer to the hijacking farce which distressed him so much. Is there any truth in the newspaper report which appeared in Sydney last week that the alarm which was set off by the pilot was caused by the forceful abduction by the Greek authorities of a Greek priest from Sydney on that airliner? Will he give us a full report on this matter as soon as possible? If there is any truth in the report will he take suitable action to protest to those who were responsible? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is the Commonwealth Police Force still searching for a man who threatened to hijack and blow up an airliner unless his 2 associates were freed from a Tasmanian gaol, or has this man been arrested? If he has been arrested, why has he not been charged for such a serious offence? Is the man to whom I refer the same man who faced in Brisbane a charge of blowing up the Communist Party headquarters there but who subsequently absconded? 
 I object because again this will deprive me of the 15 minutes which you,  Mr President,  have ruled that I have remaining in which to complete my speech on the Budget. 
-I want to speak on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate merely to enable my colleague to reach the chamber. 
In that case, now that I am on my feet I will continue with what I want to say. I direct my remarks to you,  Mr President.  They concern an incident which occurred at a hearing of one of the estimates committees. I was and still am of the opinion that the estimates committees were established in order to investigate formally the estimates and that all honourable senators had equal rights to be members of a committee or to attend committee meetings. I am not being critical of the  chairman  of the particular committee, who happens to be  Senator Davidson,  because now my anger has subsided somewhat. 1 will relate the incident. I took my place at the table at that committee meeting, as I believed was my right. The  chairman  ruled, as is his right, that questioning should proceed around the table. If he wants to extend the estimates inquiry indefinitely the best way to do it is to invite every honourable senator in turn to ask questions. However, it is his right to adopt that course. On this occasion, ques tions having been asked around the table I thought that my turn to ask questions had arrived but he passed me over. When I objected he said that the elected or selected members of the committee had priority to ask questions over all other honourable senators irrespective of the time that they may have waited at their seats at the table in order to ask questions of the Minister or of the public servants in attendance. I ask you,  Mr President,  to rule on this matter or to give me some advice on it. Do not all honourable senators have an equal right ifthey  attend  those committee meetings. Is it not right for the  chairman  to recognise any honourable senator who happens to be present for the purpose of asking questions without there being any preference? I am not raising this argument in relation to standing committees or select committees but merely in relation to estimates committees. 1 put those questions to you. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the letter tabled by the Minister from Alexander Barton to him it was stated that the 6 aeroplanes concerned did not belong to Jetair Australia Ltd but to another company. I ask: With whom was the contract for the sale of the aeroplanes signed? Was it with Jetair? If it was not with Jetair, was it with Brins Australia Ltd? If not will he give the name of the company with which it was signed? Will he assure the Senate that the Government, or the Department of Foreign Affairs, was not unwittingly party to a fraud by Alexander Barton against the shareholders of Brins Australia Ltd? 24  October  1972 
I direct my question, which is about Jetair Australia Ltd, away from the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I direct it to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that the Department of Civil Aviation keeps records of the ownership of all aircraft in Australia? If that is so, is he prepared to give the details of the ownership of the DC3 aircraft which were purchased by the Department of Foreign Affairs from Jetair? 
I feel strongly about putting an arbitrary time limit on . question time, especially since, as has been pointed out, no time will be saved at all. It is important that certain questions which the Opposition has in mind be asked. What Ministers do in answer to those questions is their responsibility. As  Senator Cavanagh  said, it is in their hands. They can simply have questions placed on the notice paper if they so desire. However, it is important that the questions be asked even if they do not receive an answer at the time. If we limit question time and deprive some honourable senators who wish to ask questions of the. opportunity to do so at question time then we will find that those questions will be asked during the adjournment debate. So although we may save half an hour in the middle of the day we will find the sitting extended by 2 hours on the adjournment debate because questions must be asked. It is important to the Opposition and to those it represents that questions be asked. So the Senate would gain no time whatever. In fact it will lose time if the Government forces this decision upon us. 
I accept what the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has said - and he has been supported by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)-  that we should bring this Parliament to an end and rise as quickly as possible. Every decision we make at this time is irrelevant because the major decision is to be made on 2nd December. Every honourable senator on this side would like to see the Senate rise as quickly as possible and ask the question not of the Government but of the people and get their decision on 2nd December. So I ask that the matter of the shortening of question time be left in the hands of honourable senators rather than that there should be a decision which will create a very unhappy precedent. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate to reconsider this matter and leave it to honourable senators to shorten question time. Today, if it had not been for the lengthy answers given by Minis- ters. question time would have finished within the 45 minutes to which the Government seeks to limit it. 
On12th September last, some 6 weeks ago, I was speaking to the Budget Papers and particularly to the amendment moved by the Opposition. I was interrupted in my remarks. 
 I did not say rudely'.I was interrupted in my remarks, and I was suspended from the Senate. 
Could I gently say that 1 feel somewhat aggrieved because in the past 4 weeks statements have been made that overshadow and somewhat dim the statements which I made and which led to my suspension. I am not reflecting on the Chair, but I have a right to feel aggrieved. In support of my statement that the Government was getting far too close to its friends, especially its powerful friends, I mentioned a company called Jetair Australia Ltd. 1 mentioned Jetair, and other things followed. The following day,  Senator Turnbull,  the Independent senator from Tasmania, said that my comments had revived an interest which he had some 18 months earlier in Jetair. He demanded the tabling of papers. I say that the tabling of the papers, the revelations contained in those papers and the subsequent debates which took place in the Senate and in the House of Representatives support the statements which I made and for which I was suspended. 
I shall refer to the debate on Jetair before 1 proceed to another matter. I make this comment: If, on 12th September, 1 reflected upon the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  perhaps I did him a disservice. But during the period of the debate on Jetair he did himself a greater disservice by refusing to accept what we have been led to expect from Ministers of the Crown. He refused to accept his ministerial responsibility for what happened. He passed on the responsibility for grave errors in relation io the purchase of the Jetair aircraft to employees of the department then in his charge - the Department of Foreign Affairs. He passed on the responsibility to public servants employed by that Department. He did a disservice to the public servants. They should not have been so misused. He also did a disservice to himself. He must take the blame for that. I cannot accept any responsibility for that. 
The thing I most resented about his attitude was that, in endeavouring to avoid responsibility, he placed considerable blame on the Department of Supply and the then Minister for Supply. It was some time ago that honourable senators on this side of the chamber first raised the matter in the Senate. It was approximately 2 years ago. A considerable number of questions were asked from this side of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  who was at that time the Minister for Supply. From the start it was fairly obvious that he was embarrassed. It was evident that the Department of Supply was not at fault. Yet we had this shabby exercise on the part of the Prime Minister in endeavouring to pass that responsibility on to the Department of Supply and the then Minister for Supply. I accept that the Minister for Supply was not at fault. He was not in the country at the time. When he returned he had to face a barrage of questions. It was evident that his Department was not at fault. The fault rests with the Department of Foreign Affairs and with the present Prime Minister. Suspicion still remains, because some questions still have to be answered, that all is not well and that the then Minister for Foreign Affairs did not act in the manner in which he should have acted in the interests of his Department and of Australians. 
The other matter which I coupled with the Jetair transaction and which led to my short suspension was my concern about a tax assessment which had been made against Patrick Partners or Patrick Corporation of Sydney. 1 questioned the right of the Commissioner of Taxation to withdraw that assessment. I questioned certain events which led to the withdrawal of that assessment - an appointment being made with the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  and the subsequent withdrawal of the assessment, which was estimated in financial quarters in Melbourne and Sydney to be in the vicinity of 52.5m. At the time I suggested that there was evidence that a powerful man in Sydney financial circles was able to make a direct approach to the Prime Minister and that a reversal of the assessment followed. Until we know the reason for the reversal of that assessment, the suspicion must remain that there was extended to a prominent Sydney financial figure a special privilege which resulted in the withdrawal of an assessment of $2. 5m. 
In belated replies the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has evaded the question that I asked. If there has been a withdrawal of his assessment it is reasonable that someone should be told why. Not only the taxpayer but also the Parliament, through the Auditor-General or the Treasurer, should be told the reason why an assessment was withdrawn, especially if it is of the size of S2.5m. The reason for that withdrawal may be the reason for an application by another taxpayer for reversal of his assessment. Yet apparently the Commissioner of Taxation has the discretion to reverse such an assessment and has the power to refuse to disclose the reason. I think that this is an area that ought to be investigated. Until we are told, this suspicion will remain about this man and that this assessment was withdrawn because of special representations. I stand on that statement. 
It may have been an exercise in avoidance of tax. If it was, it was an avoidance of payment of a considerable sum. Legal men may be able to distinguish the difference between evasion and avoidance. But to ordinary taxpayers there is very little difference between evasion of tax which is reported by the Commissioner of Taxation and avoidance of tax which in this case was not reported. To the ordinary person it seems to mean that the very wealthy can have access to means of avoiding tax, that the Commissioner of Taxation can agree with them and, in having agreed with them, need not disclose the facts. This is an area of powerful discretion that ought to be taken away from the Commissioner of Taxation. The Treasurer says that he has no access to the information, that he has no right to that information and that he cannot ask the Commissioner of Taxation for a reason. 
During the sitting of a Senate Estimates Committee I asked the officer representing the Auditor-General whether he had received knowledge in his investigations of the Taxation Department of this withdrawal of an assessment. He said that it was not in the area of his power to seek out this information and report upon it. Here is a situation in which $2. 5m did not come into the Treasury and into the hands of the Government for the benefit of the people. The Auditor-General was not able to report on the reason why an assessment was made in the first place and why it was withdrawn. This is a very large area of discretion in which all things can occur. It is no use the Government denying that they cannot occur because the Commissioner of 
Taxation at this point ot time is a man of high integrity. The Commissioner at this time may be so, but it is not denied that that may not always be the case. The whole area is suspect and discretions ought to be limited, especially this discretion, which allows him to reverse an assessment of this size. We ought to have a report somewhere. The Treasurer ought to know. In this case the Treasurer does not know, and, what is more, the Treasurer is not concerned about it. During the sittings of a Senate Estimates Committee I asked the officer who was representing the Commissioner of Taxation about this matter. I was informed by the Minister in charge at the time that I could not pursue that questioning because there was no obligation on the part of the Commissioner of Taxation to report or to divulge. I say that there is always that obligation in anyone, even in the case of a statutory authority. There seems to me - I will speak on this again at another stage - to be always an obligation on a servant of government to report his actions, especially if they happen to be financial actions of this magnitude. I return briefly to the Budget. The amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party is as follows:   but the Senate condemns the Budget because it fails to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia; and in particular because it provides no programme for restoring full employment, no means of checking the costs and prices of goods and land, no framework for improving the standards of education, health, welfare and public transport and no national plan for our capital cities and regional centres'. 
It has taken me 5 weeks to complete my speech on the Budget. I have 30 seconds remaining to me. I thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  for your consideration. 

 Senator POYSER (Victoria) (4. 1 j  -  I desire to address myself briefly to the Budget and also to support the amendment that was moved some weeks ago by  Senator Wriedt.  As honourable senators know, I have been away attending a conference. The reason for my late entry into this debate is that there has been no earlier opportunity since I returned to do so. But since my return I have examined this Budget very closely. I have come to one conclusion, and one conclusion only: This is the most cynical Budget that I recall in my life in politics - not just in my life in the Senate - which covers almost a quarter of a century. It is a Budget that is deliberately set for the purpose of bribing people to vole for the Government, a Budget that expresses a belief that people are foolish enough to vote again for a government that has governed extremely badly for 2i years. As that eminent journalist and broadcaster, Frank Chamberlain, said this morning on radio, this is the worst government since Federation. He is a man of wide experience and of long standing in the Parliament. He has seen many governments come and go. If he says that this Government is the worst government since Federation he would base that statement on a long experience of many governments composed of parties from both sides of the Senate. 
Wc have a situation today in which the Government is proudly boasting of its great efforts over the last few weeks in minimally increasing employment in this country, says nothing of the  2i  years that it has been in office and the deliberate action that it took in last year's Budget to ensure that unemployment would occur, lt believes that finally the people will succumb to this type of bribery that has been used so prevalently by this Government over the years. It hopes that in 3 short months the people of Australia will forget nearly 3 years of bad government and return it to the Treasury benches. I am certain from my observations and from discussions with many people in the community that this is an action which is just not going to work. They will no longer have this humbug of over 2 years of bad government and 2 years of giving nothing and one year of trying to give everything that is possible to ensure a further term on the Treasury benches, It is now obvious to the people that the policy changes promised by the Australian Labor Party can be attained. They have always been rubbished by the Government and its supporters on the basis: 'Where will we get the money from'? 
It is amazing to see in 3 months the millions of dollars that suddenly have been found in relation to these changes. It is amazing to see the Government at last introducing legislation on home nursing for aged people. This was promised 3 years ago. Initially it was promised almost 4 years ago by  Mr Gorton,  the then Prime 
Minister. He promised it again during the subsequent Senate election campaign. Now we find this important legislation,  om  of the most important reforms that is required in the structure of our welfare in the Commonwealth, being held back for the purpose of winning an election. It should have been introduced within 6 months, at the latest, of the election of the Gorton Government. The people will not forget the kind of gimmickery that has been exploited by the Government in an attempt to win office for a further 3 years. It is cynical in every respect for any government to employ these tactics. 
I want to move to something that has given me a great deal of concern, particularly over the last 2 or 3 years. I refer to the facilities provided for members of Parliament generally and in particular for members of the Senate. 1 think the time has come when every senator has to press for the provision of much better facilities to enable him to carry out his work in this chamber and in the committees to which he belongs, if we are to progress in the way that we believe we can progress as a Senate. It is true that over the last 3 or 4 years the esteem of the Senate has risen greatly, and a major reason for that has been the establishment of the committee system. I exclude entirely the Estimates Committees because everybody knows my views on Estimates Committees. I believe they are superfluous and should not exist. But I believe that the standing and select committees are doing a very worth-while job. But there would be no members of any State parliament or of the House of Representatives in the Commonwealth Parliament who are working harder than are the senators in this place, particularly in relation to the committee work which they are asked to perform outside their normal work within this chamber. Senators are spending many weeks away from their homes in carrying out their work, and they are trying to do a tremendous amount of research into the matters which the committees of which they are members are investigating. It is high time that research facilities were made available to members of committees so that some of this work load could be taken away from them. I am a member of 3 committees. I am now a member of the Public Works Committee.  I  think that research assistance is required urgently at the committee level by the individual members of committees. 1 was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade which. I understand, is now called the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade. That Committee presently is examining the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement. It has presented to the Senate an interim report which I read with great interest. I believe that the research work which the members of that Committee would wish to undertake in examining this very complex subject would be beyond their capacity. I believe that if we are to make competent, thoughtful and thorough examinations of the matters referred to these committees there has to be a change in outlook and a change in the attitude to the provision of facilities for members of the committees. 
If we cannot get to the point where research officers are appointed to assist individual senators in this area, at least senators who are members of committees, which meet not only in Canberra but also in the other capital cities throughout the Commonwealth, should be able, during some period of the sitting of the Senate, to bring their secretarial staff to Canberra to carry out the essential electoral work and some of the research work which members of committees have to undertake. The situation is now arising in which the camel's back is going to be broken and we will get a breakdown in the system. People will not be prepared to stay away for weeks, days and hours, as they are doing at the present time, if adequate and proper assistance is not made available to them. 
Only last week a matter was submitted for examination by a committee. The resolution was not carried not because of the merits of the subject matter being debated but because of the great work load which already has been placed on committees. That load can be lifted. We can expedite greatly the work of these committees and I believe that the committees can present better reports to the Parliament. We can examine matters in greater depth if adequate facilities are made available to us. I am not asking for the provision of the type of facilities which are given to a senator in the United States of America. They have staffs of up to 40 people. But I believe that if we are to expand the committee system - and we have not delved into this area as yet - we will have to look in depth at the question of committees examining the legislation coming before this chamber, which is part of the mandate that has been given to us. 
For instance, today the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  presented a very important Bill which will be held over to the next session. That is the kind of legislation at which a committee could look. Yet we would have no possible hope of examining such legislation in the manner in which it should be examined without the provision of additional assistance, which I believe is absolutely essential if we are to make the committee system develop and grow. It seems to me that it suits the establishment to starve members of Parliament of adequate staff and facilities because in that way we are not able to delve into matters as closely as we should. The establishment must have everything preserved for it. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  to think very seriously about my remarks in relation to these matters because I know that .he is as keen as anybody else to ensure that the committee system not only works but also improves and functions much better than it does today. 
We do not want to see the long delays which have occurred in the instance of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. As far as J can understand, the preparation of this report is falling virtually on to one person who has much more to do. He has some assistance at one level, but he is not only preparing the report, as the  Chairman  of the Committee, but he has also to carry out all the other functions that he must perform, as we all must perform as members of this chamber. I believe that these facilities have to be made available now, not in the next Budget or the Budget after that or the year after that. We have to act quickly. We have to show determination in this place individually and collectively and demand the things that we think we should have. Is there any senator sitting in this chamber or listening to this debate in his office who would argue that these facilities are not required by a senator who carries out his duties properly? 
I wish to speak on the same subject as that referred to by  Senator Cavanagh.  1 was the first person who raised this matter concerning an assessment which proceeded through the various areas of appeal, disallowance and subsequent withdrawal. The question that I raised was the need for the Commissioner of Taxation to make known to this Parliament either in his report, the report of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  or the Auditor-General's report the reason for the withdrawal of the assessment, even if it were done in such a way that the actual taxpayer would not be named or identified. However, in this case so much has been said that the taxpayer is easily identified. Perhaps, in this way, I made it more difficult for the Treasurer and the Commissioner of Taxation to give me the information. 
The point that I am making is clearly this: A reason for the withdrawal of the assessment is needed, not only by this Parliament for its information but also by other taxpayers who have been similarly assessed. The Commissioner of Taxation may have decided that this was an avoidance of tax. It seems to flow from the fact that the assessment was made and then withdrawn that there must have been some type of legal avoidance, if you like to term it in that way. Having defined within this area of assessment that there was a legal avoidance, it is necessary to let all other taxpayers know that they could be in the same situation and also could ask either for a withdrawal or for a rebate. I wish to refer to the Treasurer a book called 'Taxation Now and in the Future', lt includes the papers and commentaries presented at the First National Convention of the Taxation Institute of Australia, held in Canberra from 23rd to 26th May 1969. 1 refer briefly to a comment made by Professor G. S. A.  Wheatcroft,  Solicitor-General of the Supreme Court. He has other qualifications also. They arc lengthy and I will not repeat them. Under the heading Non-Statutory Discretions', of which he names 3, he says this: 
The third case is where the discretion in exercised in the taxpayers favour and he obviously will not appeal. 
So the information does not become public knowledge. Professor Wheatcroft continues: 
Such an exercise may, however, be unfair to other taxpayers who do not receive the same treatment and have no means of appealing against a decision in favour of another taxpayer. This last area is of some interest, especially in the United Kingdom. 
Apparently the matter I am raising is of interest to these experts in the field of taxation. Therefore, I am asking for the Treasurer to reveal why, in this case, this  assessment was made and why it was withdrawn. I think that it is a reasonable request. If the information cannot be given this time, let it be given in future. If evasion and breaches are to be declared in the report under the Act and regulations that the Minister has cited then avoidance, which is a mere breach, should also be declared, especially when large sums of money are involved. I may have done an injustice to the Commissioner of Taxation in something that I said yesterday. In my final words I want to put the record straight. In speaking on this matter I said:   , . the Commissioner of Taxation at this point of time is a man of high integrity. 
That was the Treasurer's statement in a letter to me. I continued: 
The Commissioner at this time may be so, but it is not denied that that may not always be the case. 
There is an ambiguity in that which I want to correct. I did not mean that the Commissioner of Taxation today is a man of high integrity and may not be a man of high integrity tomorrow. What I meant by that statement was this: The Commissioner of Taxation at present is a man of high integrity. But the next Commissioner of Taxation, the Commissioner who may follow him or a Commissioner at some future date may not be. I want it to be perfectly clear that that is what I intended. I refer back-- 

 - Senator Webster criticises the fact that I am prepared to correct the record. Perhaps he may have preferred me to remain silent rather than correct the record. Is that what he intended? 
You say that it is better to remain silent? 
You rest on that assertion and let me make my explanation and at least clear my statement. 
I know that it is late in the session to become involved in a debate with  Senator Webster.  He is already in trouble with  Senator McLaren.  I would like the Treasurer and the Commissioner of Taxation to consider the point that I have raised, particularly because it is very much in the public interest that large scale avoidance of tax, no matter how legal it may be, ought to be publicly declared. 
I join in support of  Senator McAuliffe  on this matter. I am not a rugby league supporter. I am a rugby union supporter. Let me make a comparison between rugby league and rugby union. Rugby union receives a good coverage on television. Its international games are televised in every State. There does not seem to be any doubt that in regard to this sport there is sufficient coverage. But in comparison to rugby league, its attendances are small throughout the whole of the season. I cannot see any reason why consideration cannot be given to rugby league as has been asked by  Senator McAuliffe.  There exists a situation in which one code, pretty well the same as the other code, receives national television coverage in regard to both internal and external games. 
 Rugby union is played in a limited way in comparison to rugby league in New South Wales and Queensland. It is also played in a limited way in Victoria, in Adelaide and possibly all the States. We would accept that. It is played in all the States. Perhaps rugby league is not played in two of the States. Nevertheless, on an attendance basis rugby league is far more popular than rugby union. I make the point also that rugby league is of intense interest to those who follow rugby union. The codes are similar. Those who enjoy rugby union also enjoy rugby league. I think that what  Senator McAuliffe  has stated from time to time in this chamber ought to be given consideration. The suspicion remains that the decision in this area must be made in Melbourne. The Attorney-General has already indicated that his knowledge of other codes, especially the rugby codes, is exceptionally limited. If the decision is made in Victoria, perhaps consideration ought to be given, not only to  Senator McAuliffe's  advocacy, but also to mine. 
by leave - I inform the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  of my disappointment at his announcement that the amount allocated will not be spent because of the low level of applications being made for assistance. I find that statement a rather alarming statement. On the basis of my experience and the experience of those who made surveys of the Great Barrier Reef during August, the problem of the crown of thorns starfish is increasing. The Minister admitted that reports that the infestation is spreading south have been received. I think that is evidence enough of the increasing nature of the problem, and it ought not to be dismissed lightly. One of the reasons for the failure of leading scientists in this country to offer their services for research is that sufficient money has not been made available, and any programme which they would be likely to submit would be of a limited nature.  Dr Robert  Endean, one of the leading researchers in this field, was refused assistance from the first allocation by the Committee. This refusal somewhat contradicts the statement that those who are submitting applications for research are not of sufficient standard to justify making money available or to increase the amounts. As I have said, the starfish infestation is spreading south. It has spread south far beyond the Darley complex and beyond Bowen. The latest confirmed reports indicate that it has reached a reef called Lion Reef which is only 25 miles from Hayman Island. 
Statements have been made concerning the regrowth of infested areas and that this in some way had been limiting the initiative of both the State Government and the Commonwealth Government. It is imperative that any statement on regrowth should be carefully scrutinised because it has enabled governments to avoid their responsibilities in this field. There is some limited regrowth in the devastated areas, but it is a regrowth of a different nature. The whole character of the reef is changing. There is some regrowth of soft coral. There is little regrowth of hard corals. So the statement that has been made, that there is considerable regrowth, I consider to be a very dangerous statement when the future of the whole Great Barrier Reef is in question. 
I would like to go deeper into this matter, but today is not the day to do so because of the pressure of legislation before us. But I hope that the Government will reconsider the amounts of money made available. It ought to increase the amounts by some supplementary arrangement. If we are to spend about $3m each year on parks and gardens in Canberra  - I  do not deny the need to spend this amount on the national capital - then we ought to be spending more than $100,000 a year on the protection of the Great Barrier Beef. The basic need is for more money for research, but at the same time some assistance ought to be given to those organisations that want to take immediate steps for direct control of starfish populations in certain vital areas. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Is the Commonwealth Police Force still searching for the man who threatened to hijack and blow up an airliner, unless 2 associates of his were released from a Tasmanian gaol; if so, has this man been arrested; if so. why have no charges been laid; and is this man the same person who faced a charge in Brisbane, Queensland, for blowing up the Communist Party Headquarters but who absconded. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The person referred to in the question is at present in custody, awaiting trial on a criminal charge. In the circumstances I do not consider that any further answer should be given to the question at present. 

 - Senator Little said that the article from which he read was taken from the Australian'. I suggest that the document be tabled so that we can have a close look at it. because he is compounding his act tonight by referring to an authority which 1 believe to be not properly based and not to represent truly what the men referred to have said. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - The honourable senator will have to move that the document be tabled. 
I move: 
That the document be tabled. 

 - Senator Little is endeavouring to mislead the Senate. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! The question is: 
That the document be tabled. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - The question now is: 
That the ruling of the Acting Deputy President be dissented from. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I address a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is the Department of Civil Aviation negotiating a new fuel policy with the airlines? Are the airlines endeavouring to reduce the amount of fuel carried for emergency purposes so as to increase payloads? Can we be sure that the Department will resist such a move? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Yesterday I asked a question about negotiations which were taking place between the Department of Civil Aviation and the airline companies which may lead to a reduction in the amount of fuel carried by aircraft. Has the Minister any information which he can now give? Is he aware that any attempt to reduce fuel reserves will be resisted in the public interest by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, and that this attitude on their part may lead to a strike if this new fuel policy is imposed? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that the honourable member for Blaxland,  Mr Keating,  approached the Director of Civil Aviation in New South Wales asking him to give information about the beneficial owners of the Jetair Australia Ltd aircraft between 1965 and 1970? Is it a fact that the Director referred  Mr Keating  to the Minister? Is it a fact that I also asked questions about the beneficial ownership of these aircraft during the same period? Can the Minister explain why there has been a delay in supplying this information? Is he aware that by this delay he is protecting Alexander Barton and his fellow directors from further information being put before the Senate by me? 
 I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  I know that you will accept that one needs to know clearly the position of one's political opponents. I ask: Where docs the Liberal Party stand in relation to the' Country Party and where does the Country Party stand in relation to the Democratic Labor Party? If there is a question as to the position of the Country Party in relation to the DLP, is not the matter one for you or for the Senate to decide rather than for it to be decided upon the presumption of the Leader of the DLP,  Senator Gair? 
I refer to my previous question addressed to you,  Mr President.  Please forgive me if I appear perverse. Do you recognise the Democratic Labor Party as the second opposition party? If so, do you realise that certain benefit may flow from that decision which may not be deserved? 
May I remind  Senator Bonner  of his brothers and sisters in Papua New Guinea. He referred to his brothers and sisters on the Torres Strait islands. For some reason he seemed to separate them from his brothers and sisters - he used the term - in Papua New Guinea. 1 would like to remind him that Papua New Guinea is an emerging nation with a tremendous potential for growth, commercially and otherwise, and it will not be long before the interests of the Torres Strait islanders will be better served by the nations to the north of them than by the State to the south of them. lt is fairly evident that their interest has not been served by the State to which they belong. The Torres Strait islanders have been the victims of neglect on the part of the Queensland Government for many years. In fact the inhabitants of the 3 islands concerned- 
The record of the Gair Government in Queensland as far as Aborigines and Torres Strait islanders are concerned it not one which can be supported and certainly is not to the credit of the Labor movement. 
1 did not support some of its actions and 1 do not support it now. 
 I am talking about the Queensland Government which was led by  Senator Gair.  The inhabitants of these islands are so depressed economically that many of them have to travel many miles to Western Australia to work on the railways for 2 years. They have to be separated from their families and from their children for no less than 2 years in order to earn sufficient money to maintain their families. They cannot live from the sea as was suggested by  Senator Byrne.  This is not the time for speeches of the kind made by  Senator Byrne, Senator Bonner  and  Senator Lawrie.  This is not a time for emotion. It is not a time for emotional terms such as were used by  Senator 
Byrne. One of the words he used was 'genocide'. He had the temerity to use the word genocide' because it has been suggested that these 3 islands should become part of the Territory of Papua New Guinea. He suggested that this was a type of genocide but he and his party have supported since 1954 the acts of genocide against the Vietnamese people. There is no doubt that his party has supported what could have led to the complete obliteration of the Vietnamese people. That is what can be termed genocide, not the relocation, by arrangement and discussion, of a boundary between Papua New Guinea and Queensland. 
Let me make it clear to the Senate that the proposition brought forward today is premature and will prejudice the negotiations. I warn supporters of the motion that what they are saying will happen because of their violent opposition and because of the violent opposition of Bjelke-Petersen. Three boundaries have been suggested in the past. Looking at a sketch which I have before me, the first boundary, as it exists today, was established in 1879. Subsequently, in 1899 a border should have been introduced but was not. That boundary is accepted generally today by the politicians of Papua New Guinea. By bringing the border further south, Papua New Guinea takes in the 3 islands concerned. As far as the negotiations have gone, at the present time the politicians of Papua New Guinea are prepared to accept this boundary which will bring within their territory the 3 islands under discussion. There is a further boundary which is called the William Macgregor boundary. That is the boundary which seems to be acceptable, at the present stage of negotiations, to the Australian Labor Party. It runs somewhat further south and takes in certain reefs and one or two more islands. But under the pressure of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Democratic Labor Party and misguided senators here tonight, this problem will not be resolved until Papua New Guinea takes it to the International Court of Justice. Possibly the International Court will accept that the boundary should be as far south as the 10th Parallel. 
I am saying that if the boundary is not altered by negotiation and conciliation, as is suggested at present, but is taken to an international authority, the international authority will take it to the obvious line. The moving of this motion today, the methods being used by the Opposition parties, the emotive terms being used, and the panic that the Opposition parties are creating among the Torres Strait islanders will mean in the end that the matter will be taken to an international authority and then the Torres Strait islanders will be worse off. There are 576 people concerned and I agree that the future of the 576 inhabitants of these 3 islands must be carefully considered. Their future must not be left to the mercy and the neglect of the present Queensland Government as it has been in the past. These people practically live on the social services, the pensions, provided to the elder people. 
They are neglected. They are neglected because there has been no provision for them. 
Let me say to you, senator, that the future of the people of these 3 islands must be protected and in a transitional period the benefits which they receive at the present time must continue, and they are mainly Commonwealth benefits. Nothing flows to those people as a result of the initiative of the present Queensland Government. Their neglect is obvious and it has been obvious for years. The Queensland Government has not cared. It has not even bothered to seal off the waters of the Torres Strait islands for the benefit of the people of those islands. It has allowed those waters to be exploited by foreign vessels - and by foreign vessels I mean vessels from New South Wales and Victoria. The Queensland Government has never endeavoured to protect those waters upon which the Torres Strait islanders depend, not for their livelihood in the normal economic sense- 
They have been badly treated by the Queensland Government because no initiative has been shown in providing employment for them. In fact all the economic benefit that flows to these people flows from the Commonwealth Government. 
If it were not for the social services which the Commonwealth provides, those people would be as destitute as the people who live on the mainland of Papua New Guinea. I suggest to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  that he should not use methods that he condemns others for using. He condemns students for arousing tempers in the streets and for creating situations which he considers to be riotous. On one occasion - quite unwarrantedly - he claimed that a dangerous situation existed and he declared a state of emergency over a football match. At the present time he is using far less responsible methods in the islands of the Torres Strait. He has caused such a stir and such an emotional position that one chieftain or leader of the island people has suggested that he could muster 100 warriors to protect the islands and that there would be bloodshed on the beaches. That sort of statement has followed  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  wherever he has gone on those islands. He has deliberately stirred up the passions of the people on the islands and compromised the negotiations which must take place. 1 trust that the problem will be solved by negotiation and conciliation and that the people of the Torres Strait Islands will be consulted and will be a part of the conciliation process. I suggest to those who so violently oppose any discussions on the matter of a boundary that eventually they will be forced to accept a boundary that is far less suitable to the interests of the people of the Torres Strait Islands than is that suggested at the present time by the Australian Labor Party. It should not be forgotten that the whole area of Papua New Guinea, the Torres Strait Islands and West Irian, which, incidentally, was created because of the ineptitude of the previous government, which was prepared to concede to Indonesia certain benefits which it ought to have resisted conceding and which has moved the autonomy of that area further away, is the cradle of a new emergent nation and we should not do anything that is likely to stir or to create division. But that is what the Democratic Labor Party is doing at the present time and that is what  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has done. It has been suggested that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has certain economic interests in the area. I refer honourable senators to a map of the area. 
Yes, I have an economic interest in the area as an Australian, but I do not have a personal economic interest in the area. I refer honourable senators to a map of the area which shows the leases that are available in the area and which have been the subject of applications for exploration purposes. An application has been placed for those leases by a company called Exoil Australia Ltd, which is a company in which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has a lion's share. 
The point I am getting at is that we must carefully watch to ensure that the self interest of  Mr BjelkePetersen  in other areas, such as the Great Barrier Reef- 
I will answer that interjection in due course. Before the honourable senator takes up that matter he should get his facts correct. He obviously has been listening to members of the Democratic Labor Party, who have no basis for any of the remarks or interjections they have been making. Let me tell honourable senators about  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  lt is clear that he is a major shareholder in Exoil Australia Ltd. Exoil Australia Ltd has put in an application for the prime lease which is in the area under dispute. I believe that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has disenfranchised himself from any negotiations in this area. It is fairly obvious that there are interests other than the interests of Queensland and of the nation involved in this matter. I suggest also to those honourable senators who want to inform themselves properly on the suggestions and the proposals that have been put forward in the past for a variation of the boundary, that they should go into the Parliamentary Library and take note of the very excellent display there, which indicates that this border dispute, problem or controversy - call it what you will - has been one that has extended back to before Federation. 
One does not transfer land. All we are suggesting is that the boundary be moved to south of the 3 islands concerned, to south of the reefs which are rich in marine wealth. All we are suggesting is that careful and unemotional negotiations should be conducted with the people of Papua New Guinea to reconcile the matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
In directing my question to the the Attorney-General I remind the Senate that although I have asked questions about the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation over a period of time I have never received answers to those questions. I wish now to ask the Attorney-General about the nature of the information he found and upon which he made his decision. Are we likely eventually to be advised of the nature of that information? If he cannot give us that information at this moment, can he give us an indication of what the effects would be of the release of that information at this moment? 
What concerns me most about the speech made by  Senator Carrick  is his denunciation of the committee system of this Parliament. I think he has been in this Parliament long enough to appreciate the work of the committees, to understand their nature and to understand the method under which they work. The committee system enables a forum to be established where people can make a submission. That submission can be placed under scrutiny not only by the committee but also by further witnesses. If the honourable senator were to look at the record of some of the committees of the Senate, some of the committees of the other place and some of the joint committees he would see tremendous value in their reports. 1 feel that he not only belittles the work of the committee system but also he belittles himself in not properly understanding its function. The committee on prices when it is set up, as it will be, will enable the Parliament to discover why prices appear to be too high and why certain profit margins appear to be large. In saying this I point out to the honourable senator that the Government is not against profits as such within the system as it exists but it is against excessive profits. I believe that the honourable senator would be against excessive profits. 
I describe an excessive profit as one where a manufacturer supplies non-perishable goods at $100 and the retailer sells those goods at $150. I say that in that situation that margin- 
No, that sounds like a furniture reseller's profit margin. That is exactly the margin which he expects not for handling the goods but merely for selling from a catalogue. I consider that to be an excessive margin and an excessive profit. The purpose of the committee is to find out why this occurs. It does occur in a variety of industries. It occurs in the clothing industry, particularly the fashion clothing industry where the margin can be as high as 80 per cent. It occurs in the cosmetics industry where the profit can be as high as 140 per cent. This committee will endeavour to seek out the reason why such high margins exist. It will seek out information which may lay the blame at faulty distribution. In the chemical and pharmaceutical areas it may be able to and possibly will establish that there is faulty distribution and that too many outlets exist in too small an area with no rational distribution. This committee can discover a tremendous amount of information. I believe in a committee of politicians - not partisan politicians, because if  Senator Carrick  had more experience of committees he would find that party differences disappear on these committees. 
One of the problems in the Senate is that we are somewhat overloaded with work. For this reason we ought not oppose the establish- ment of a joint committee which will enable a considerable number of backbenchers in the other place to participate on such a committee. Possibly we will find that more joint committees will be established for this very reason. They will enable a member of Parliament who, at the present time is not using his talents to the best advantage, to be occupied. The committee system enables not only people and organisations to come before the Committee to make submissions but also it provides a training ground for members of Parliament. Many of us here have benefited from serving upon committees and the Senate has become more enlightened because of the work of committees. Another area of prices at which this committee can look in addition to high prices is cut throat prices. There are many cut throat prices in this community which are leading to shoddy goods. Many cut throat prices in the petrol industry are leading to a distortion in the distribution of petrol products in this country. 
No, this does not come within the restrictive practices area at all. Let me use petrol as an example. The consumer, the ordinary motorist, is paying far too much for his petrol. One of the reasons for this is that the industrial user is paying far too little. Even in this area this proposed committee could search out quite a deal of information. 
I would say that a fair price is the policy of this Government, a fair price which will enable the product to be distributed correctly and which will enable the quality of that product to be maintained. It is too often the case that a price Which is too low, a cut throat price, leads to shoddy merchandise and also leads to pressure upon the worker to accept smaller wages than he should. All I am saying is that it is an area which needs investigation. It is an area that ought to be searched out, and this committee could do it. It seems to me to be odd that Opposition senators should seek to hinder the establishment of this committee and to criticise its establishment in the terms used by  Senator Carrick. 
I turn now to the price of land. One would like to know why a block of land in a street can be sold for  $4,000  and be purchased by the agent in whose hands it has been placed - I believe this to be unethical - because he knows that he will be able to sell that land  2  or  3  weeks later not for  $1,000  more but at twice the price for which he purchased it. If any honourable senator wants evidence of that type of thing I can take him to the very street in which I live in which certain blocks of land on an estate were released, were purchased by the agent from the owner, and subsequently were sold at double the purchase price. It is most important that this area of land sales should be investigated, and this committee could search out why the price of land seems to escalate to  3  or  4  times its original subdivisional price. 
Another matter that we ought to search out is how it is possible for a speculator, using Short term money borrowed at an interest rate of lc in the dollar per month, or  12  per cent, to erect a multi-storey building in Sydney - a commercial enterprise - and expect to have his capital returned to him not in  20  years - I hope the building is erected to last more than  20  years - but in  8  years on a  80  per cent tenancy, and in some cases on a  50  per cent tenancy. It is not reasonable that a committee of this Parliament should search out how this is possible? Is it not reasonable that a committee of this Parliament should ask how the cost to the tenant flows on to the consumer? This parliamentary committee will not do what  Senator Carrick  has suggested, namely, search out some industry and put it through the hoops. 
That is not what will happen. The committee will look generally at the cause of high prices and at what stimulates those high prices. The committee will look at the ethical and economic principle that industries, commercial concerns, should charge what the market can bear. I believe it is this motive that leads to excessive prices and to excessive profit margins. I think the Parliament would be wise to support the establishment of this committee. I do not think that the committee will descend to partisanship. I do not think it will descend to petty politics. I think it will search out a fairly wide area and come up with some reasonable information. As we did with the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, we will hold at bay for some time those who would use speculative measures to lift their prices because they will fear that they may come under the- scrutiny of the committee. I support fully the establishment of this committee, as I have supported the establishment of other committees. 1 regret that the Senate has reached a stage where the load of work upon honourable senators does not permit freely the establishment of committees to search not only this area but also other areas of concern to the community. 
I take the advice of the Minister for the Media and ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. If material is used by the media in breach of a D notice what penalty is imposed, and by whom? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media and refer to my previous question. If material is used in breach of a D-notice, is he required to impose a penalty or a rebuke? If he is not, who is? 
Is it a fact that the Attorney-General is soon to visit France to have talks with the French Government on nuclear tests in the Pacific? Will he convey to the French Government the strong feeling of the Australian people against these tests? Will he indicate what he hopes to achieve by these talks? 
If I may speak to that- 
If I may, this would mean that the Opposition could frustrate my attempt to ask a second question  -  to which I am entitled - by all standing and seeking your attention. That means that I could be here for half an hour before I would be entitled to ask my second question. 
1 direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Will he clear up roy puzzlement in relation to the issue of Dnotices? Will he clarify the position? Will he explain whether he is responsible for the issue of D-notices? ls he responsible for the supervision of D-notices? If he is not, will he explain exactly his position in relation to the issue of these controversial notices? 
I  should like to direct a few words to you,  Mr President.  You have safeguarded the rights of honourable senators in this place. This is without question and it has been commended by senators on both sides of the chamber. When the originator of a motion rises to speak again you often ask him, when there is a list of speakers before you, whether he is closing the debate. On this occasion you did not do so. Am  I  to take it that you were not aware that  Senator Withers  had originated the motion or were you not expecting him to do what he did, which was contrary to the practice of this place?  I  should have thought that, as has happened so often in the past, the question would have been asked of  Senator Withers  whether he was closing the debate. This question was not asked.  I  take it that it was not expected that he would be closing the debate. For that reason he should be condemned and he has been condemned in no uncertain terms tonight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11  p.m. until  Tuesday 1st May at 3  p.m.,  unless sooner called together. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. In answer to a previous question he stated that several new and important issues had been raised by the announcement from Yugoslavia. Could he give the nature of these new issues and could he also state why this Parliament had not previously been informed of any action to protect Australian naturalised citizens in Yugoslavia subsequent to that raid into Yugoslavia? 
I attract the attention of the Minister for Customs and Excise to World Wildlife magazine which suggests that nothing in the history of conservation is likely to compare with the Government's action on. the question of endangered species. Can the Minister indicate to the Senate the progress in the Government's plan to protect endangered species through Customs controls? 

 - Mr President,I have been personally misrepresented by the statement made by  Senator Gair  that 1 was not known in the Labor Party at the time to which he was referring. That is personally offensive to me because at the time-- 
I say that it is clearly wrong-- 
Yes. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to the questions repeatedly asked of him by  Senator Carrick  and the question asked of him by  Senator Marriott  about French nuclear tests. I ask: Is continual questioning along those lines likely to prejudice Australia's approach to the International Court? Can their questions be interpreted as being a deliberate attempt by the Opposition to support the French position? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Extensions to Windsor Telephone Exchange, Melbourne, Victoria. 
I understand your confusion,  Mr President.  One did not expect  Senator Lawrie  suddenly to come to the end of his argument,, such as it was. For that reason also I rise unexpectedly to my feet. May I remind you of the Bill,  Mr President?  It is in effect a Bill relating to the distribution of the States into electoral divisions. It is a simple Bill and, being a simple man, I find ease in supporting .. it. The main provision of the Bill is contained in clause 3. Proposed new .section 19 provides: 
That in making any proposed distribution qf  a  State into  Divisions  the Distribution Commissioners shall give due consideration, in relation to each proposed Division, to - 
community of interests within the' Division, including economic, social and regional  interests; 
means of communication and travel -within -the Division; 
the trend of population changes within the State; 
the physical features of the Division; and ' ' 
existing boundaries - of Divisions and Subdivisions -. . . 
The Bill provides for one essential 'change, and it is a change considerably for the -better. This is referred to in clause 4 which reads: 
Section 25 of the' Principal Act -'fs- amended' by omitting from paragraph (b) of sub-section (2) the word 'one-fifth*-  or 20 per cent - 
. and substituting the word 'one-tenth'.' 
This amendment affects the proportioning of electoral strength between rural, electorates and city electorates and reduces the amount of. disparity from the quota from 20. per cent to 10 per cent. If any measure were .needed to restrict the Government in doing what, the Opposition has been accusing us of doing - I refer to the ability of a government to gerrymander - this measure would be ari added restriction. It surprises me to hear 'coming from the Opposition senators, particularly from  Senator Carrick,  the type of proposition which they have brought forth, namely, that the Government, the Labor Party, is endeavouring by means of this Bill to carry out a gerrymander of some sort to load the electorates in such a way as to perpetuate ourselves in government for an indefinite number of years. This is an outrageous suggestion. The proposition in the Bill is to limit the ability of any party so to do. For the long period of 23 years when the Opposition was in government it endeavoured to misuse the Commonwealth Electoral Act to its own advantage and, of course, this was to the disadvantage of the nation. 
If we believe in a 2-party parliamentary system, if we believe in democracy, if we believe that Parliament should be responsive to the will of the people, it is necessary that we give to the commissioners who are responsible for redistribution guidelines which will enable them to present us with a redistribution which gives equal value to each electorate. At the present time that is not the case. As  Senator McAuliffe  clearly stated last night in the most impressive speech of this debate, this has not been the case federally; it certainly has not been the case in Queensland; and it certainly has not been the case in other States. The electoral system, as it exists at the moment, has enabled one party, with the support of a minority party, to stay in power for 23 years. No democratic form of government can survive when one party stays in power for 23 years. When we seek to bring in an amendment to correct this position we are criticised and accused of endeavouring to take away from the people their rights within the electorates. Let us not forget that in the Senate each State is equally represented and each State has equal rights. The method by which they are elected has nothing to do with the end result. Whether there are fewer people in Tasmania than there are in Queensland or New South Wales, the purpose of this chamber is to have equal representation from each of the States. This is achieved. What we are suggesting is that each electorate for the House of Representatives shall have equal value, as far as is possible. That is the purpose of this Bill. 
To my mind the Bill does not go far enough. It improves the position by reducing the tolerance from 20 per cent to 10 per cent, which restricts the ability of any Party or any government to misuse a redistribution, if such a thing can happen. To a certain extent I am prepared to resist this. I believe that under the guidelines given by governments the distribution commissioners have endeavoured to do their best, but given the 20 per cent tolerance they have had far too much latitude. Virtually they have been given a direction from the Government that the guidelines per mit them to allow for this 20 per cent tolerance either way. This has meant in effect that the rural electorates have been advantaged while' the more populous city electorates have been disadvantaged. Therefore, in this respect this Bill provides a definite improvement. 
This Bill is one of several that will come before this Parliament and each must be treated on its merits. This Bill should be supported. I am surprised at the attitude taken to it by the Opposition which has heaped abuse upon the. Government. We heard from  Senator Carrick  the scare tactic used by the Australian Democratic Labor Party prior to the election on 2nd December. The tactic used on that occasion by the DLP was that if the people elected the Australian Labor Party to government it would change the electoral system and would stay in power indefinitely. Perhaps the DLP was judging the Labor Party by its own standards, the standards set by its Leader,  Senator Gair,  while he was Premier of Queensland. He was perhaps the best gerrymanderer of them all. He loaded the electoral system in Queensland so that even when the Opposition Party obtained more than 50 per cent of the votes it remained in Opposition with a minority of the seats. The example set by  Senator Gair,  who is now Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, was promptly followed by the Country Party in Queensland led by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  whose efforts at gerrymandering have exceeded the efforts of  Senator Gair,  as was shown by the election results outlined by  Senator Ron  McAuliffe last night, that is, that the Party with the minority of support is in power because of the electoral system operating in Queensland. 
It is important that in this nation we support the 2-party system which has survived so well in Great Britain. That system depends upon certain discipline. It depends upon party discipline. What is more, it depends on something that the Opposition abhors - the first past the post method of election. Providing that the electorates are of equal value throughout Australia, the first past the post system is the most honest, the most sensible, the most effective, the most simple way of electing a government to power. That system does not deny the minority parties a right to be represented in Parliament. In fact, where there are 5 candidates it offers a better chance for a candidate representing a minority party to be elected. Taking it for granted that in this case each of the electorates within Australia is of equal value, a minority party fielding a good candidate and with a good policy can achieve representation in the Parliament by gaining 30 per cent of the vote within that electorate. Why not? Why should not that be the case? 
Let us consider a system which, although it is not the best, is the best of those available. Lc.t us consider the preference system that has been foist upon us for so long and which gives so much power to a minority party such as the DLP. Use of the preference system in Australia has made it possible for the DLP and other minority parties to influence the Government. That system can decide which Party shall rule. Its use has negated the 2- party system. The preference system which is illegal in the United States of America and the United Kingdom does not give the best result. Why should I who have always supported the strongest party in an electorate and have always voted for the strongest candidate, be denied my preference when the second and third parties are allowed to play their preferences backwards and forwards? 1 support the strongest party in an electorate and have done so year after year but my preference has not been counted. I wanted the Australian Labor Party candidate to be elected. He was the strongest candidate and be topped the list, but when it came to counting the votes I found that he was not elected. Do I get a preference? Can I say that since John Smith, the Australian Labor Parry candidate, has not been elected, I do not want Billy Jones but 1 want Clarrie Harvey, or some other candidate? Why should not my preference be counted? But it is riot counted. The strongest party in an electorate, is denied the right of preference. This multitude of opinion, these opposition parties - the Country Party, the Liberal Party, the Democratic Labor Party, the Independents - continually assert that the preference system is the best method. It is not. 
There is a better method, a method between the preferential system and the first past the post system. I refer to the optional preference system. In that situation I can say that I want that particular person and no other. I can mark my vote against one candidate on the ballot paper and against no other candidate. Under the present situation -that vote is informal, but under the selective preferential system it would be counted, as would those of people who vote first for a certain candidate and then show their preferences down the line, 2, 3, 4, 5. What is wrong with that system? Why should so many votes be declared informal? I recall that in the electorate of Lilley it took 2 weeks for the result to be decided. We were scrutineering night after night until the early hours of the morning. I clearly recall how many votes were discarded as informal because the voter had placed '1' against the name df the candidate that he wanted but had not placed any other figures against the names of the other candidates. Why should not that elector's vote be valid? The preference system does not work because it is under direction from a political party. In fact it is under direction from the minority party. In the electorate of Lilley the preference system did not really operate because the party directed how an elector should vote when he went to the polling booth and received a card. So, in effect, to a certain extent preferences are a confidence vote imposed upon the electorate' by the minority party which endeavours to frustrate the will of the majority of the people. 
Let me tell the honourable senator that the seat of Lilley was won by a narrow margin by the Australian Labor Party on DLP preferences; much to the discomfort of Kevin Cairns ' who depended so much on those DLP preferences. The Australian Labor Party won on DLP preferences; the preferences were those of absentee voters. They were absentee voters who were not under the direction of the Democratic Labor Party. 
The direction that the DLP issues that those who vote for the DLP shall allocate their preferences in a particular way. 
Yes, we put out *how to vote' cards. The point that I am making and which members of the DLP are supporting is that the preferential system does not really operate as it is intended. Firstly, the people who vote for the strongest candidate do not have their preferences counted ' and, besides, the other preferences are allocated at the direction of the Party. In the case of Lilley, it was the minority party. The proposition contained in this Bill ought to be supported but the 3 Opposition Parties - the trinity, and what an evil trinity it is - have decided to oppose it. Not only will they oppose this legislation but also will they oppose other legislation to be introduced. The Opposition Parties are on a collision course with the Government. This will be to their own disadvantage. They intend not only to object to and to frustrate the passage of this Bill but also to frustrate other electoral reforms. They have predetermined their attitude just as they predetermined their preferences at election time. That is how they have aborted, if I may use that word, the whole system. 
The electoral amendments which the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has included in this Bill and the electoral amendments which he intends to introduce subsequently are worthy of support. Personally I can think of other systems of voting. I can think of other systems of government and in particular one system of government which possibly would be to the advantage of this country as well as to the advantage of small and rapidly developing countries. However, I will not throw that cat amongst the pigeons tonight unless I am forced to. 
It is the one party system. The one party system of government is in operation in many Commonwealth countries. The honourable senator should not decry it. Many countries are members of the Commonwealth of Nations, part of our Commonwealth, and have a one party system. They do not govern any less effectively than we do at the present time. I will speak now of the proportional system which the DLP has indicated it will support. The DLP is proposing to move an amendment to this Bill seeking to introduce the proportional system of voting. The DLP states that that method will give each vote an equal value. In judging that system the end result is important. What would happen in the Parliament under a proportional system? An effective government of the type which we have depended on for so long under the 2-party system is not achieved. The proportional representation method applied to House of Representatives elections will do to that House what the proportional representation method has done to this House. To the House of Representatives will be elected a multiplicity of parties to be bought and sold, as has happened in many European countries which have endeavoured to use that system. There would be a multiplicity of small parties owing no allegiance one to the other, changing their position within the Parliament, serving their own narrow purposes, frustrating the continuity of government and destroying what we have become used to in Australia and in the United Kingdom, that is, the 2-party system. That party system imposes a discipline upon members and protects members from other influences. What happens under a multi-party system? The result is the type of chaos which occurred in France and which led to a guided democracy and then a virtual dictatorship. 
I would suggest that  Senator Turnbull,  under a 2-party system- 
I would suggest that the place for independent senators is within the 2-party system. The 2-party system is the guardian of. the people. 
No. Independent senators hold the balance of power in this place and they have no right to hold that balance of power. They do not have the right to hold the balance of power as they do at the present time to frustrate the will of the people. They vote as they wish. The whole of this Parliament is subjected to the vagaries of the attitudes of independent senators. In the 2-party system of government with the first past the post method of voting independent senators would have to decide to what side of the Parliament they would contribute their talents. I would suggest to those honourable senators that they should make up thenminds as to which Party they should belong and then join that Party so that we can return to a 2-party system which will give continuity of government to this country. 
At the present time the whole of this country is frustrated by the efforts of the DLP. One only has to witness what has occurred in this House in the past 2 or 3 weeks to see an example of the irresponsibility of a minority party. This small groups does not even hold Caucus meetings. Its members can gather in the corridors of Parliament House. As one honourable senator suggested the other night, they can even meet in a telephone box. They do not need to hold Caucus meetings. They merely ring each other by telephone to suggest to one another the course that they will adopt on legislation. They come into this place and move motions which are supported by the Country Party - another quasi minority group - and the Liberal Party to frustrate the will of the Senate. They frustrate not only the will of this place but also the will of the government which was elected by the people. 
What percentage of the vote did your Party obtain? It was about 30 per cent! What percentage did the Country Party poll? It received about 9 per cent. What percentage did the DLP obtain? It was about 5 per cent - a minority vote. But the DLP has the audacity to challenge the rights of a Party which attracted 49 per cent of the votes. The DLP is frustrating the Government's efforts. What the DLP deserves and what it will get because of its attitude is, soon enough, a double dissolution which will force the DLP to make up its mind which Party it supports. 
We need a simple form of election. The electorate requires that regularly, but not too often, it shall be required to vote for either one party or another. It should have a simple form for and method of electing a representative. It should be required to vote only for the person that it wants and should not be forced to vote preferentially by placing '2', *3', '4', and '5', for example, against the names of other candidates giving such preferences a value equal to the first preference vote. It should not be required to do that. If a first past the post voting system is not acceptable, surely preferences can be indicated or not indicated. Either manner of voting ought to be valid. But what happens when we suggest such a thing and when we anticipate that such legislation might come forward? We ' heard  Senator Carrick  rise and state what we normally hear from members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party - that what we are out to do is to distort the electoral system and endeavour to place ourselves in power for a limitless number of years. What we really deserve as a Party is to have at least 20 years in government to make up for the 23 years during which the LiberalCountry Party Government made a shocking mess of the economy and of this country. I do not believe in this system. 1 have indicated what sort of an electoral system I would have if I had my way. But I could not even get support for it within my own Party- 
Yes, myself. 
A person can stand for Parliament if he wishes. But he- takes his chances on a first past the post system: If he cannot get sufficient votes under the first past the post system, he is not good enough. The people of Australia should not 1 have to vote and elect members on blind preferences. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  ]  PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Order!  Senator '.Georges,  it might be appropriate if you directed your remarks to the Bill -before the Senate. 
I am,  Mr Acting Deputy President,,  but you will recall, that we have not had the benefit- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! I am asking the honourable senator to direct his remarks to the subject matter of the Bill, namely, redistributions. 
I will .direct my remarks to the Bill.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  we have not had the benefit pf your chairmanship in the Senate for the last day or sp. For that reason the debates have ranged right across not only Bills introduced ' in the past but also Bills to be introduced in the future. When I commenced my remarks I indicated that tonight the Senate was concerned with a simple proposition; to reduce the permissible disparity between electorates from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. I even read out the title of the Bill. I have been indicating that the Bill would lessen the ability of any party to conduct a gerrymander. Instead of that being accepted by the Opposition, we have had outraged criticism from  Senator Lawrie, Senator Carrick, Senator Byrne  and other honourable senators opposite. 
If we are to have the democratic system of government to which we are accustomed, we must have a system which will make this Parliament responsible to the will of the people. This can be done only if the electorates are of equal value. It can be done only if there is a clear indication within each of these electorates of whom the people want. It should not be confused by some quasi preference system which has been imposed upon us for so long. Nevertheless, as you have indicated,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  the Bill has nothing to do with this. 1 suggest that such a simple Bill as this Bill should receive a speedy passage. Of course, it is not likely to have a speedy passage because for some reason the Opposition has decided to oppose it. It has also decided to oppose other Bills and indicated that although it will give a speedy passage to the bills that it supports, it will do its best to resist other bills. As far as I can gather, there is hardly a bill that it accepts. 
It seems to me that we will have to face over the next 2 or 3 weeks frustration and opposition from the Opposition, supported by  Senator Webster  to Bills that have been brought forward by the Government under its clear mandate. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
BrieflyI express my concern that clause  13  (d) remains in the proposition that is before us. Clause  1 3  (d) clearly states:  witnesses may be accompanied by counsel or solicitor for the purposes of being advised by them as to their rights and. subject to the discretion of the Committee, be permitted to ask questions of other witnesses either themselves or through their counsel or solicitor; 
If  I  can get the assurance that this clause will be taken out,  I  will not make any further comment except to say that the Australian Democratic Labor Party was guilty of a subterfuge. It circulated an amendment indicating that this clause was to be deleted but subsequently  Senator Kane  moved the gag and the clause was not deleted.  1  am glad to hear that the Opposition intends to take steps to delete that clause in particular which indicated the intention on the part of the DLP to set up a McCarthy-type committee in this Senate. 
This debate on whether to adjourn discussion on the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill is almost as important as the debate upon the Bill itself. For that reason it should not have been brought on so suddenly and I therefore move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question put: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
The Opposition has revealed that it is not willing to debate even the adjournment of this Bill. It has exposed its endeavours further to frustrate the program of the Government. Let us not delude ourselves. That is the purpose of seeking deferment. It is obviously a new device which has been thought out by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  to avoid voting against the Bill which was the original intention of the Opposition. It is seeking to defer this Bill and all other legislation so that it will not be forced into a confrontation on more than one Bill. Last week the Opposition frustrated the Government's program by not passing the Electoral Bill. This week, for some reason, honourable senators opposite have had second thoughts and the device of deferment is being employed. 
The Australian Country Party has already indicated to its Leader that it has made up its mind to vote against the legislation. Why should it want to wait  3  months when it has made up its mind? Sufficient time has been given for those people who are interested in the Bill to discuss it. Sufficient time has been given to the State Premiers to make their points of view known. Sufficient time has been given to the Parties to debate the issue in the Party rooms and form their attitudes to the Bill. Yet for some reason the Opposition does not want this measure to be given a speedy passage. A quick conclusion could be reached if a vote were taken and the proposition put to the High Court for a legal decision.  1  think many honourable senators will agree that the matter will finish in the High Court. Irrespective of whether the path suggested by  Senator Cant  or  Senator Byrne,  or some other path is taken, the High Court will be asked to decide this matter. Why then should we waste the time of this Parliament? Why should we frustrate the interests of the people as a whole? The interests of the people are very much at stake. 
For months 1 have been beating the air in the Senate - that is the only way it can be described - warning the Senate of the need for this legislation in order to protect a large and vital section of the Australian coast, to wit, the Great Barrier Reef. It was hoped that the passage of this legislation would firmly, once and (or all, place responsibility in the hands of the Federal Government so that it alone could determine the future of the wealth in our offshore areas. It is fairly evident that until that point is decided, until the responsibility is placed firmly in the hands of a single authority, the future of some of our vital areas is at stake. I may be transgressing in raising that matter at this stage. I would like to put to the Opposition the importance of making a decision to be followed by a legal interpretation, not by the Privy Council, but within our own land by the High Court itself. 
Surely this is a simple and reasonable way for the matter to be resolved. Yet, instead of the Opposition accepting the adjournment of the debate until the next day of sitting, instead of it being willing for the debate to take place perhaps towards the end of this week or next week, it has sought to defer the debate. It is difficult to understand. What is it that the Opposition is afraid of? Is it afraid that some of its members will vote with the Government on this very important proposition? Is it afraid that some of its members may follow the lead of their ex-leader in the other place, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who was once Prime Minister, and vote for this important legislation? If this is the Opposition's fear, why postpone the debate for  3  months? Why not face up to the issue at this moment? What does it seek by the postponement for  3  months? Are discussions sought with the States? The States have already made their attitude clear and the Commonwealth has already made its attitude clear. There is a clear area of dissension, if I may use those  2  words, 'clear' and 'dissension' in the same sentence. That dissension must be resolved, and it must be resolved quickly because of one or  2  matters that will, of necessity, come out when the Bill is debated. For that reason, I voice my protest at the manner in which the amendment was moved. Also, I voice my objection to the fact that the Opposition did not support my motion for the adjournment of the debate dealing with the postponement of the Bill so that this matter could be fully debated. I am not speaking of the Bill. I am speaking of the motion for the adjournment of this debate and the need to postpone the debate on the Bill for  3  months. The motion for the postponement of the debate needs to be debated fully. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
I welcome the rather belated enthusiasm accorded this measure by the Opposition. I was particularly interested in the words of  Senator Greenwood,  the previous AttorneyGeneral, who indicated that he had proposed that certain changes should be made - changes that are now incorporated in this Bill. However, he had decided that they were not important enough at that time and that they would be dealt with when he eventually got around to amending the Crimes Act. I believe he is guilty of giving lip service to those propositions and of doing nothing about them, although tonight he has said that the changes are of prime importance. 
I wish to remind  Senator Greenwood  and other supporters of the previous Government of its actions which amounted to intimidation of migrant communities. For a long time  Senator Byrne  supported honourable senators opposite when they were in office. Tonight I remind him and  Senator Greenwood  that their enthusiastic speeches in this debate are belied by their actions in previous times. By the application of the Crimes Act the previous Government was guilty of the worst type of intimidation of sections of the migrant community, if not the whole of the migrant community. I have in mind the continued refusal of the previous government to naturalise certain migrants because of their political activities. 
It has quite a deal to do with the Bill and with the material that  Senator Greenwood  introduced into the debate. I am showing just how hypocritical was his attitude as a supporter of the previous government. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - The point of order is not sustained. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I was about to anticipate your ruling. The action of  Senator Greenwood  does him no credit. He extended the debate by expounding on how we have created a climate in which this legislation becomes necessary, but when he and his colleagues were in office they created substantial fears in the migrant communities by refusing naturalisation to certain migrants because of political activity or political thinking contrary to the views of the Government. They intimidated the whole of the migrant community because migrants value their rights as citizens of this country. Migrants value and seek the privilege of citizenship. The previous Government intimidated migrants by creating in them the fear that if they participated in the normal political activities of this country they would be refused naturalisation. 1 clearly remember the words of a young migrant at a meeting in Darwin which was addressed by  Senator Mulvihill.  The young migrant said to me: 'Yesterday I was naturalised. Today I can speak my mind'. That reflects the kind of fear which the previous Government has established and which it continued to establish right to the day it was defeated. Very soon after the previous government was defeated one of the first acts of the Department of Immigration was to naturalise a migrant who had been refused naturalisation for about 19 years. I support bis naturalisation and the subsequent naturalisation of many people who previously had been refused naturalisation, for political ' reasons. 
I also support the provisions of this Bill, which was introduced on behalf of the Government by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).In  spite of the enthusiasm for this measure shown by  Senator Greenwood,  the previous Attorney-General, and by  Senator 
Byrne, I remind them that it had to wait until the present Attorney-General was appointed before it could be introduced. This legislation anticipates the investigation to be conducted by the committee which has been set up on the motion of the Opposition. By this one piece of amending legislation the Government is doing more towards establishing the civil liberties of migrants than the whole of that investigation will do. The investigation is to inquire into the civil liberties of migrants. This Bill indicates the intentions of this Government in respect of migrants. 
I have already indicated that people who have been refused naturalisation are now being naturalised. I am not referring to one or two people, but to over 200 peoplewho have been refused naturalisation for political reasons. This Bill takes the attitude of the Government even further. For the reasons I have given I am rather cynical about the enthusiastic support of the Opposition. I welcome it only because it will ensure a speedy passage for this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
It seems to have become the habit of  Senator Carrick,  whenever he speaks in debate in opposition to government legislation, deliberately to manufacture a case built on misrepresentations and semi-truths. It is not necessary for him to go to the lengths to which he has gone to confuse the issue by using scare tactics which he so commonly uses in debate after debate. This Bill simply proposes to set up a utility to serve the people of Australia. lt is being set up properly to conserve a very important source of fuel and to distribute it properly and economically. Surely the honourable senator who just sat down does not want us to go back to the early days before federalism when the transport systems were established in a variety of ways with a variety of gauges, using a variety of rolling stock. Surely he does not expect us to go back to that stage. Yet this is exactly what he is proposing at this moment. He is proposing that the pipelines which are and which need to be established shall be established by a variety of States and by a variety of companies within those States. He wants to set up the same confusion and inefficiency which existed in the rail transport system for many years until a federal government took steps to unify the railway gauges and to present a reasonable, efficient and uniform transport utility for the benefit of the nation. 
The honourable senator speaks of a socialist enterprise and of this Government endeavouring to foist upon the people some socialist plan. But he fails to appreciate that the very roads on which he travels in his car are a socialist enterprise for his benefit and for the benefit of all the people. We have an Australian National Transport Advisory Council which supplies the necessary money to the States to build the main roads from Western Australia right through to Cairns, and now even to Darwin. In effect, this is a comparison with what the Pipeline Authority Sill 1973 intends to do as far as fuel distribution in Australia is concerned. This Bill endeavours properly to plan the distribution of gas and petroleum. It does not do the honourable senator any good to misreport or, should I say, distort the case which has been presented by the Government at this time. In the short term it will cost money to set up the Authority. In 5 years it will cost $l,200m to establish and build the Authority. But let us have our comparisons in correct perspective. Surely it is unfair of the honourable senator to say that with the $ 1,200m we can build so many schools and hospitals. That is so. But if be is going to carry out that comparison perhaps he. should look elsewhere to see how we can economise with sums of this sort. Perhaps he should look at the Sydney Opera House and imagine how many hospitals and schools could be built with the money which has gone into that concern. Many New South Welshmen consider that to be an acceptable expenditure. Perhaps he should look at the tremendous amount of money we have spent on defence over the last 10 years. 
No, I am not forgetting that because- 
The honourable senator does not understand. This Authority, this pipeline and the efficient method by which it is going to be constructed and organised are an essential part of defence. If it is worth while to spend $ 1,000m a year in defence, then part of that money can be and should be allocated to this project. But we are not suggesting that. We are merely suggesting that over a period of 5 years $300m shall be raised from the people by way of loan for the establishment of this pipeline and that the project should not be left to the speculative enterprise of those people whom the Opposition represents - the stockbrokers, the manipulators and the company directors who, over the past 5 years, to my knowledge and from my experience as a result of a certain investigation, have manipulated the moneys of many people to their own advantage and to the disadvantage of the enterprises for which the companies were set up. 
Honourable senators opposite have the audacity to say that the best way to establish the pipeline is to leave it to the same speculators who are not concerned with the building of the pipeline or with the conservation of our natural energy resources but are concerned merely with making a kill upon the stock exchange by promoting and by selling shares in a company which will build such a pipeline, to the disadvantage - it has been proven to be the disadvantage - of many thousands of young and small investors and of many investors who will place more than a small amount in such companies. . These people have seized upon the need of the nation for oil. They would seize upon the need of the nation for the pipeline and they would promote a company to suck out from people large sums on speculation, they would misuse such large sums and they would build not just one properly co-ordinated pipeline but a series of pipelines, one in competition with another, depending upon their ability to promote and speculate. This is the type of confused action and planning that the Opposition wants, but the type of planning that the Government wants is correct planning, pi an ni ug for the whole of the nation and co-ordinated planning. lt is in the interests of the nation to have the pipeline for the distribution not only of gas but also of other petroleum products. lt will be necessary for this country to conserve the available sources of its energy - oil and gas. At times it will be necessary for the nation, as a whole, to seek out cheaper sources of fuel overseas in order to conserve its resources at home. This is what Japan is doing at present with its basic minerals, particularly coal. This is exactly what the United States finds that it has to do now. Tt has to conserve its resources and seek abroad cheaper resources for the time being. It is for this reason that we, as a nation, in a controlled and a significant way, should be approaching the problem. This Bill is welcomed for the very reason that it is the first indication that the Federal Government is prepared to plan its approach to the use of its fuel resources and to plan for the future use of energy resources in this country even if it is necessary, for the time being, to seek fuel from other places in order to conserve supplies in Australia. I cannot understand how this proposition can be objected to. 1 cannot understand how this proposition can be undermined in the way in which  Senator Carrick  undermined it. 
The electricity authorities in the various States have, over a period, reorganised themselves into a single authority with a single grid to supply to a variety of users a commodity - in this case, electricity. Similar things have been done with our roads, our rail transport and our air transport. Why the objection here? Of course it is a social enterprise. One could call it a socialist enterprise. It is organised by the people. It will be financed by the people, through the Government, lt is the most effective and most efficient way to do it. Why should we have a conglomerate of companies and a conglomerate of individuals endeavouring, in competition one with the other, to set up such a service? It is not cheap. Do not let any Opposition member say that competition today is cheap. Competition today does not exist. Competition in the fuel industry does not exist. There is no such thing as free competition - allowing the price of a commodity to reach its own natural level. By arrangement, the prices are maintained. By arrangement, the price of fuel in this country, particularly petrol, has been maintained for years. 
The Authority will break this control by major companies which, by arrangement, sell to the public at a high rate based on their very high cost. They have a duplication of services. They have station competing against station, refinery competing against refinery and tanker competing against tanker - a most inefficient and costly system. The cost is passed on to the consumer. When we suggest that this should be rationalised, there is objection. When we suggest that the nation should be able to purchase fuel overseas and transmit it through a pipeline so that the nation may free itself from the great international giants which control our fuel resources at present, we are ridiculed. If this is socialism, we have been socialisists for many years. The Opposition, when in government, was responsible for many socialist enterprises of this sort. And why not? In this case, because it is in Opposition, it. objects strongly to what the Government proposes. It can see that the efficiency of the system will affect the financial position of some of its friends. 
The Bill seeks to establish the Authority for the transmission of petroleum. And why not? Why should not petroleum be brought to this country if there is a need to conserve our supplies? Although our supplies are increasing in availability they ought to be conserved for the long term because there is a fuel crisis developing in the world. It may be necessary for us in the short term to conserve our supplies by taking advantage of the availability of supplies from Indonesia to the north and even from, the U.S.S/R. When the pipeline is extended to the Pacific Ocean we should take advantage of cheap fuel from that direction - not to the disadvantage of our suppliers but in order to protect the long term position of our suppliers. The Authority is set up for the transmission of natural gas. It has been shown by previous speakers, by surveys and by exploration that there are vast areas and vast resources of natural gas available. The pipeline, built to the Government's plan, will quickly transmit gas to the major cities. If the pipeline can reduce pollution that would be reason enough for the quick, effective and efficient establishment of the pipeline. If the supply of gas to Sydney in great quantities can reduce by 20 per cent the pollution which affects that city, the Government's action is justified. If the transmission of gas in quantities from these great fields to Sydney, Brisbane, the other capital cities and the provincial cities which the pipeline passes provides cheaper fuel, it reduces cost and enables us to be more effective in production in competition with some of our neighbours and some of our trading partners. 
I cannot see why the Opposition should suddenly endeavour to slow up the passage of this Bill by moving a series of niggling amendments. 1 cannot for the life of me accept some of the criticism that has been levelled at the Australian Labor Party in Government for endeavouring to carry out its policy which is supported by the people, of introducing an increasing amount of public enterprise in a more direct and effective way.  Senator Carrick  says that capital raised through a private company is capital that is free to the Government, but that is not so. It is the same people who invest. But it is reasonable to expect people to be able to invest with surety in a public authority rather than to invest wilh speculation in some of the companies which have been established in the past and will be established in the future. 
U is a great pity that the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange has not reached this Parliament. When it does, there will be considerable rethinking on the part of many honourable senators as to the method by which we form our capital in this country. There will be great support for the raising of capital in the manner in which the capital for this Authority will be raised, and for the view that the Government should give the direction and raise money through the normal loan channels, paying reasonable interest rates for a reasonable and ordered return, instead of allowing speculation that flows and ebbs, reaching a high peak and suddenly falling into an extremely low position which endangers the operation of the enterprise which the capital is supposed to support. 
The Australian fuel industry has been too long in the hands of speculators. It has cost the Australian people many millions of dollars to find oil in Australia. It has cost the public - the ordinary people of Australia - many millions of dollars to find gas in Australia. It was not found free by companies. The ordinary people invested, sometimes unwisely, and the money invested was many times not wisely used. It was the ordinary finance, the savings of ordinary people who support these oil and gas exploration concerns. It is far better that this should be done in an orderly fashion than in the most inefficient way in which it has been done up to the present. Too often money which has been raised to be used in the search for fuel sources in Australia has flowed backwards and forwards between companies and between directors without any actual result in the field, with very little oil produced and with very little gas found. 
As a Government supporter I strongly support the Bill. But I support it not only because I am part of the Government; I support it because for so long there has been too little of this sort of enterprise on the part of governments. The sooner that we accept the proposition that governments must not be just regulatory concerns but must also be planners, constructors, developers and traders, the better it will be for all of us and for the nation, and the greater chance we will hays to survive if it comes to a matter of defence, which is what is concerning  Senator Hannan.  IE these industries are developed effectively, our defensive position is much stronger. If we conserve our energy and distribute it efficiently, our ability to survive economically - and that is a consideration - is much greater. For this reason I have pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Will the AttorneyGeneral consider and treat as urgent an investigation into telephone tapping at present and in the past by State authorities in contravention of Commonwealth law? Will he give equal emphasis to an inquiry into alleged telephone tapping and communications surveillance by private undercover groups in the area of commerce and industry? 
 In directing a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to the action being taken by the Minister for Science,  Mr Morrison,  to enact suitable standards for consumer products. What steps is the AttorneyGeneral's Department taking to enact laws in support of such worthwhile action? 
May I express my extreme satisfaction at the end of this pernicious Act. 
I did not expect to be called up and neither did you,  Senator Marriott,  and for that reason it is not to your credit that you supported the Act for so many years. I am pleased that this Act is now at an end and I hope that it shall never be resurrected. 
It is a bit late in the session to complain about the method of calling; I will leave that matter until the August session. 
I ask whether the attention of the Attorney-General's Department has been directed to an article in the early edition of the 'Sun' of 30 May 1973 which states: 
Premier Askin said today that the phone tapping had been authorised by the New South Wales Parliament. 
If the Department is not aware of this article, will it search it out? Will it also concentrate on a further statement alleged to have been made by New South Wales Police Commissioner Hansen? He is reported to have said that phone taps could be authorised only by the Commissioner or an Assistant Police Commissioner and that any such authorisation would be given only when justified by the strongest suspicion in order to protect the public from serious crime. 
I address to the Attorney-General a question following the questions relating to telex messages. In order to clear up some of the confusion surrounding this situation, I ask the Attorney-General whether he can give to the Senate any further information concerning the visit of  Mr Barbour  to the Prime Minister in March. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public 
Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
-Has the AttorneyGeneral had the opportunity to read the article which appeared in the 'National Times' on the Petrov defection? Is he aware that in that article there are serious implications of secret government and that these implications have been partly confirmed by  Sir Charles  Spry and a former secretary to a former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies? Is he prepared to take steps to inquire into the matter? Is he at least prepared to interview  Mr Petrov  and get his view of the events which occurred at that time? Finally, I remind the Attorney-General that my interest in this matter is not new. I asked a question about it on the first day of this Parliament. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I preface it by pointing out that advertisements have appeared in newspapers for staff as a result of upgrading the Office of Aboriginal Affairs to a department. Could the Minister advise me why the senior positions were not advertised? Could he advise whether these senior positions have been filled and if they have been filled by whom and on whose authority have they been filled? Finally, could he advise me what rights other public servants have in this situation? 
-by leave-  Mr President,  I wish to make a short statement on a matter which concerns you. Could I gently criticise the manner in which you call senators at question time? While I appreciate that it may be reasonable to call all senators who are asking questions for the first time, is it not unreasonable to call a senator who has not previously risen and not call a senator who has been getting to his feet constantly seeking to ask a question? Is it not further unreasonable to call a senator who was not even in the chamber in preference to calling a senator who had been rising constantly to his feet? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. I refer to a report which states that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has given to his Department advice concerning the advisability of establishing a different means of television broadcasting in Australia. Is it correct, as it is stated, that the report is secret? If it is not secret when will it be made available to the Senate for scrutiny? Is the report correct in inferring that there is conflict between the Minister for the Media and the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Eduction, Science and the Arts, which is at present investigating a reference concerning television broadcasting? 
-I seek leave to make a statement. 
I appreciate the point that has been made that the Government is responsible for maintaining a quorum. I accept the right of the Opposition to attract attention to the state of the House as a tactic to force Government senators who are outside the chamber to be present in the chamber. It is unfortunate that we are not aware of the position of the chamber at a particular time when we are away from the chamber. We are not in a position to know this. I think it is unfortunate that the Opposition should use this tactic because it is one which stirs tempers and leads to all sorts of recriminatory actions. 
-I indicate to the honourable senator that we did on occasions use the tactic that was used by the Opposition this morning. 
-I believe that it has been made fairly clear at the present time that our Whip is responsible for advising us of the state of the House when we are in a variety of places. Might I say that sometimes we could be in a place which is on the other side of this building. But the Government Whip is now responsible for reminding us of the state of the chamber. I think that we will accept that responsibility. But I suggest to honourable senators that we have taken on a large work load. Honourable senators can argue as much as they like about whether the work load is too great. I think it is too great. The  President  has pointed out that staff members and others also are under an excessive work load. They have to work longer hours, more days and service more committees. I think it is a little outrageous for the Opposition to be calling quorums in these circumstances and dragging us from work for which we consider we are responsible. 
If the honourable senator wishes, he can take that attitude. I am suggesting that the Whips get together on this matter. It is unfortunate that it was the Opposition Whip who called the first quorum. If the Opposition Whip had felt so strongly on this he should have seen our Whip and said: 'Look, it is not workable. We are going to be forced to call a quorum'. As  Senator O  'Byrne said, if Opposition senators want to play it hard so early in the piece, hard we will play it and our tempers will get very short in the very early hours of the morning.  Senator Marriott  may laugh. But we will meet the Opposition word for word and challenge for challenge. 
I take the opportunity to protest against the criticism that was inflicted on the Government by the Opposition, especially since the delaying tactics of the Opposition caused the excessive delay in the presentation of the Address-in-Reply. The delay is the responsibility of the Opposition. I needed to remind myself that what we were doing today was delivering the Address-inReply to the Governor-General after a debate that commenced some 8 months ago. 
I wish to speak just briefly in answer to  Senator Webster.  Last night I indicated to him that he had no real concern about inflation or prices. It is fairly evident, from the responses opposite, that neither have any of the Opposition parties. If  Senator Webster  is concerned about the social security legislation he ought to be concerned about prices which take the value out of payments which are made. If he and the Opposition parties are so concerned let us pass that legislation today also. There is no reason why we should not expedite it as honourable senators opposite want. It can go through in about an hour if the Opposition is so keen to get it through. It is also necessary to get the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill through as well. 
So that we can maintain the value - 
-That matter can be decided upon. I merely suggest that the criticism which  Senator Webster  has made can be quickly answered if the Opposition parties are prepared to co-operate in getting that legislation through. We can do both things today. But surely general business must run third in this situation. If the Opposition were honest about this it would forgo general business under the terms which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has indicated. 
I seek the indulgence of the Senate at this late hour to make a statement which, on reflection, I should have made some time ago. If I had done so, an injustice which has been done to  Mr Gordon  Bryant may not have been done. I refer to his transfer from the Ministry of Aboriginal Affairs, which appears to be to his discredit and which indicates that in some way he may have failed. I seek to correct this impression. Let me make it clear that it has not been  Mr Gordon  Bryant who had failed; it had been the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and its permanent head, and the advisers to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
My memory goes back quite some time when  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield interjected in a speech that I was making and contributed by way of a follow-up statement to what I had to say. I do not want to go back to that period of time and remind her of what happened. Allow me to proceed. I repeat: It has not been  Mr Gordon  Bryant who has failed; it has been the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and its permanent head, and the advisers to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs who have failed. The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is the victim- and he is not the first victimof the mishandling of this area of responsibility. The previous Minister,  Mr Howson,  who was given a conglomerate of responsibilities, including the area of Aboriginal affairs, was the previous victim. Unless drastic reorganisation is carried out the new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  undoubtedly  will be  the next victim. The whole field of Aboriginal affairs has developed into a disaster area littered with failures and the expenditure of large sums of money, which have been spent with questionable results. This pattern was set during the period of office of the previous Government. 
At the invitation of the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, over the past 3 months I undertook certain work which, together with my representation on the Labor Caucus SubCommittee on Aboriginal Affairs, made me aware of certain information in relation to the Office of Aboriginal Affairs, and now the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which convinces me that the permanent head of the Department,  Mr Barrie  Dexter, deliberately frustrated the decisions of his Minister and in fact worked for and succeeded his removal. I regret to say that the  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs,  Dr H.  C. Coombs, cannot escape some of the responsibility. Let me explain how I arrived at this position. I was appointed by the then Minister.  Mr Gordon  Bryant, as  chairman  of the Aboriginal Co-operative Advisory Committee. This is an area in which I have some expertise. While organising the Torres Strait Co-operative Society I became aware of the work of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd, a company set up by the Department together with the associated companies, Aboriginal and Islander Products Pty Ltd and Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd, to assist various Aboriginal and island communities. 

 Senator Laucke, by asking a question recently, in effect has prompted me to speak tonight in order that I may protect my own position. I think that in fairness to me honourable senators ought to listen to what I have to say. It is only right that  Senator Laucke  should have answers to the questions he has asked. I may be able to answer some of the questions. I doubt whether the Department would have been prepared to give clear answers to his questions because it was not prepared to give me clear answers to the questions; it certainly was not prepared to give the previous Minister clear answers to the questions; and it certainly was not prepared to give  Mr Howson  clear answers to the questions which have been asked. 
I speak in particular of turtle farming in the Torres Strait for which the companies I have mentioned were set up. Rumours were prevalent of the failure of the project, resignations of field officers were reported, general managers were dismissed and other alarming reports filtered through to the Minister, who asked me whether I was prepared to accept the position of director of the companies concerned. It is in the record that I accepted the position while at the same time expressing grave reservations about the viability of the whole scheme. On close investigation, the Minister contacted the Attorney-General and expressed his reservations. I am not holding the previous Government responsible for what has occurred. All I am saying is that a Minister of the previous Government was not properly informed, that the previous Labor Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was not properly informed and that I am determined that the present Minister shall be properly informed - 
-Well, he will receive some assistance from me. It seems to me that he is not likely to receive any from the honourable senator. In brief, what has occurred is that the Department, without proper supervision, advanced to  Dr Bustard  through the Australian National University in 1970-71 - 
-Dr Bustard. The Department advanced through the ANU and subsequently directly to  Dr Bustard  up to approximately April this year an amount of $457,000 and intended in this year to expend almost $1.5m. 
-$1.5m. This was to be given to a project that apparently was failing in the field. The Minister,  Mr Gordon  Bryant, endeavoured to bring this operation, commenced under the Liberal Government, under some control. Firstly, he referred the structure of the companies to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  and questioned the setting up of the companies which were all funded with public moneys, one to support the other, and whose expenditure was not under the scrutiny of the Auditor-General or the Parliament. Next, he expressed doubts about the ecological aspects of the scheme and referred the matter to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  and to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. He appointed as new directors of the company myself as  chairman, Mr Ray  Thorburn, M.H.R., and  Mr J.  Neill, a leading Canberra accountant. He referred- in fairness to the man I ask honourable senators to listen to what I have to say- allegations of misuse of moneys to the Attorney-General. That action subsequently was supported by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation which referred the matter to the AuditorGeneral who is at present carrying out an investigation. In all these actions  Mr Gordon  Bryant acted to protect not only the expenditure of large sums of public moneys but the interests of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. 
Let me explain my position. When I became a director of this company, naturally I took steps to find out exactly what was going on. I went to the Torres Strait. I went to 4 islands on which turtle farming was being carried out. I was appalled at the result of this massive expenditure of moneys. As I have said, $457,000 has been spent. I saw Torres Strait islanders being imposed upon in such a way that they would attract the sympathy of any reasonable person. For $30 a week they were expected to raise a certain number of turtles. They were expected to maintain and feed these turtles twice daily and to change the water in the pens. As the turtles grew bigger the water had to be changed more frequently and they required more food. Also there was cannibalism among the turtles in the pens. I remind  Senator Wright,  who is laughing, that this scheme was set up and funded without proper supervision under his Government. 
-They got it out of the previous Government. 
In 1970-71. There are quite a number of people who cannot escape responsibility for the expenditure of moneys without proper supervision. The ANU, which allowed itself to be an agent for the distribution of these moneys after 1970 and 1971, cannot escape responsibility for the expenditure of these large sums of moneys, some of which were used in a direction in which they should not have been used. 
Because the Minister took the necessary steps to refer these matters to the various people to whom they should have been referred- to the Attorney-General and subsequently to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation and to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation- a campaign was started against him which I regret was responsible in a great part for his transfer. Aside from my actual visit to the islands, how is it that I know exactly what went on over a period of time? It is because I sought to ask questions. A company called Applied Ecology Pty Ltd was set up and funded by the Government for $457,000. Subsequently, Aboriginal and Islander Products Pty Ltd was set up to purchase turtles from the first company for $ 10 each. These turtles were to go to an taxidermist to be stuffed for a further $8. To make certain that there was a market for these turtles, without any reference whatsoeverand one is appalled at the concept- to the availability of a market, without any references to whether these turtles could be exported and without any reference to whether these turtles would be subject to sales tax, they were then to be sold or purchased by Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd which the Government, or shall I say the Department, funded with a further $100,000 to be used to purchase the turtles on the raising of which we had already expended $457,000. This is shades of Alexander Barton. 
Those honourable senators who seek to find out further information may do so. I do not doubt that  Senator Laucke  will be asking for further information. I seek merely to indicate that the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs did everything possible, acted with promptness and propriety, and I think acted with too great a tolerance in not taking steps to correct and to discipline those who were responsible within the Department for this appalling misuse of public moneys. It is not only in this area that there has been an appalling misuse of moneys to the disadvantage of the Aboriginal people. If we look at the way in which the trust fund has been operating we will see evidence after evidence of failure. This is to the disadvantage of the Aboriginal people, not to their advantage. All we are doing in the methods we are using in this operation is proving that the Aborigines are commercial failures. They have been given money in large quantities and unwisely without the proper support of the Department. The heads of the Department and the advisors have to answer for this. I see no reason why Minister after Minister should suffer because of the actions of people who so unwisely have made money available and who did not properly supervise this money. 
With the transfer of the Department to a new Minister I now find myself as chairman of a company called Applied Ecology Pty Ltd. The question can be asked: 'How can a member of Parliament be a chairman of a company? Is this not an office of profit under the Crown?' I did not come down in the last shower. Immediately I took up this position I wrote to the Attorney-General and asked him to do 3 things. I asked him to investigate these companies and their setting up, away from the scrutiny of Parliament, funded by public moneys. I also asked him to investigate my position on those companies and whether it in any way conflicted with my situation as a member of Parliament even though no money is paid to and received by me and there is provision in the articles of this company for a director to be there without a shareholding. 
Let me tell the honourable senator what steps the Minister took. He took steps to appoint us to these companies in order to bring them under more direct control because it was fairly evident that we had a rapidly expanding project which was spending tremendous amounts of money without proper supervision or care. We found that these companies which were set up were assisting merely 100 turtle farmers in the field. Yet in Canberra an office was set up in the Woden Tower in a palatial suite of offices, costing $155,000 a year, plus a sophisticated staff which not only equalled but actually surpassed the staff available to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Yet this office was set up and developed. I would say that the whole of this project was referred for scrutiny to the Minister for the Environment and to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation. This scrutiny by the House of Representatives Committee resulted in evidence being given by the Department. The evidence proved to be misleading. Not only was the evidence misleading; I would say it was grossly misleading. Even the figures given were not accurate. When the fact that the figures did not agree was brought to the notice of the Department the amount was changed from $257,000 to over $450,000. Not only that, but the Department said that it had 29,000 turtles. My first step on taking my position was to ask how many turtles existed and the number of farmers. According to the recent official stocktaking the number of turtles that existed was not 29,000, as the Department said, but 19,000. 
The witness gave that evidence on oath. 
All I am saying here is that I took the necessary steps to see whether the matter could be raised before there was a reshuffle. But that is a matter I shall take up elsewhere. I took the action I thought necessary by giving evidence before the House of Representatives Standing Committee. The Torres Strait Islanders have come to depend upon this project for their livelihood. One hundred turtle farmers and their families are engaged in collecting fish and chaining water to keep these turtles alive. In order to protect them it was necessary to disclose what was going on. But I had to attempt in some way to protect the project, to correct the failures and to convert it from what was obviously not a viable commercial project to a conservation project. For this reason it was necessary to give this evidence in private. Subsequently the Committee called another witness who was an ex-manager of the turtle project. He gave evidence which supported the evidence which I had given before that Committee. Subsequently in seeking from the Minister further information on what was happening with this money and with this project it was necessary for me to ask certain colleagues on the caucus Sub-committee for Aboriginal Affairs to look at the files on the turtle farm. Those files are departmental files and I can refer to them only generally. There was a deliberate attempt in those files to discredit me. There was a reference which stated that I was a liar. There was a reference which said that I conspired to destroy the project. There was a reference which said that I was responsible for the resignation of a field officer- in fact, that I sent him around the bend. I feel that for an honourable senator to realise exactly what has been done with public moneys in this area he would have to carry out the scrutiny of this particular project which I have carried out. 
Honourable senators would be astounded at the manner in which there has been a cover up of the errors which have been committed by the Department, which were compounded by the Australian National University and which were subsequently confused by officials of the Department. Let me make this clear: As far as I am concerned that project will not be funded to $1.5m. It will not be wasteful to the extent that it has been wasteful. I have referred only to turtles. Let me refer to crocodiles. The same companies and the same scientists were involved in setting up at Edward River a crocodile farming project. In the initial stages the crocodiles died because insufficient care was given to water conditions and to the salinity of the water. But when the pressure of investigation came to bear upon the whole project, what occurred? In spite of the international stand which we have recently taken in relation to endangered species 2 crocodile hunters were employed. We supplied them with 2 Landrovers. They went up and down Cape York Peninsular and collected 1,500 crocodiles to replace the ones which had not survived. The question arises: How could this go on from 1970 to 1971 and right into 1973 and 1974, without the Department being aware of the mismanagement that was going on, the mistreatment of fauna and the mistreatment of the people who were required to look after these animals? 
-The Auditor-General did not come into it because the companies were set up in. such a way and the funding made in such a way that the transition was completely outside the scrutiny of the Parliament. Previous Ministers took it that the funding was being made to the Australian National University whereas the funding was made to the Australian National University only until 1971. Subsequently the University said: 'It is no longer a research program,  Dr Bustard  is not employed by us, we cannot receive moneys on his behalf. In other words there was no scientific responsibility for the money from that particular time. The money was being funded virtually direct to  Dr Bustard  and he had unsupervised control of those moneys, and those moneys were unwisely spent. Let me just point out this to the Senate: At present the arrangement is that one person within this operation has a $5,000 imprest petty cash account from which he can expend money and merely by supplying the dockets, that amount of $5,000 is refunded each month. 
It has not been let go on. 
I have known about this, I would say, for a month. 
I took action immediately. The papers that reveal this and the last lot of dockets that I received I gave immediately to the representative from the Auditor-General's Department. When I first became aware of this unsupervised expenditure of money I immediately referred the matter to the Attorney-General. Honourable senators will find on his file a request to investigate this. Not only did I do this but the Minister did it also. Let us be fair. The previous Minister was not aware that the money was not going to the ANU and that the ANU was not supervising the money as such but the money was going directly to  Dr Bustard.  In that situation who then is to blame but the Department and the head of the Department? Yet since this became known the head of the Department deliberately frustrated the decisions of the Minister to bring this matter under control. I would say that, because of the strange arrangement that exists within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs where the head of the Department is responsible to the Council for Aboriginal Affairs, which is chaired by  Dr Coombs,  and also to the Minister, the head of the Department is able to bypass the Minister and go to the  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs and direct to the Prime Minister. In all this there is another charge I make and that is that the Prime Minister was misinformed. The Prime Minister was not aware, just as  Mr Howson  was not aware, just as the previous Prime Minister was not aware and just as  Mr Gordon  Bryant was not aware - 
If you,  Senator, recall  what happened to  Mr Howson  you will realise that he may as well have been either transferred or dismissed. There was a situation here that should never have been permitted- and the purpose of this whole exercise is to see that it does not continue. 
I would say that the present Prime Minister was not fully aware of the steps taken by  Mr Gordon  Bryant to bring this matter under control. The Prime Minister was subjected to a series of telegrams from the Torres Strait Islands which were supposed to be sent on behalf of the Torres Strait Islanders, but if you were to read some of those telegrams you would realise that they were prompted by other people. I would merely ask those honourable senators who want to go further into this at least to seek the papers out and to look at them. This just was not peanuts; it was $457,000 plus a further $100,000 sitting in the Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd which was set up to purchase turtles from the previous company without proper investigation as to what markets existed. I have not gone into the story of what was intended or how they were going to raise the turtles to 120 lb in congested pens with the water being changed by hand. I could take honourable senators to Murray Island and as we approached the island we would see figures forming a chain on the beach to carry 5-gallon buckets of water in order to change the water in the pens. The bigger the monsters become, the more they excrete, the more they foul the water and the higher the mortality rate becomes. And this was supposed to be a project to assist these people and it was supposed to be a conservation project. 
I cannot at this moment give the exact date but I would say some 3 months ago would be the earliest date. It would be in the month of August that I was appointed. I might tell the Senate that my appointment was resisted by the head of the Department. At every stage he endeavoured to frustrate my appointment . Not only did he endeavour to frustrate my appointment but he subsequently tried to frustrate the appointments of  Mr Ray  Thorburn and also of  Mr Jim  Neill who, as I stated before, is a local accountant. He not only endeavoured to frustrate it but he spoke against it; and not only did he speak against it but he went further and endeavoured to denigrate and to discredit. If  Mr Gordon  Bryant has to suffer any disrepute because of this, let others suffer also. Let the head of the Department also accept some responsibility and let  Dr Coombs  also accept some responsibility. Let him accept the responsibility for knowing the true position and for doing nothing to protect  Mr Gordon  Bryant from transfer. 
I stated clearly and I say it again that in this the Prime Minister was misinformed. 
I will allow you to arrive at your own conclusions in this regard. Someone mentioned the arts area. Arrive at your own conclusions there. I am merely telling you what is happening in one particular area. I am saying that this year we will be spending $170m through the Department on Aboriginal welfare. We will be spending for every man, woman and child of the Aboriginal population $1,000. If we are not careful, if we do not reorganise, and if the Department is not disciplined- by 'disciplined I mean reorganised- that money will surely be wasted. I asked a question here and I have not got an answer to it. I asked: 'How were the heads of the Department appointed? Were the jobs advertised?' All jobs except the top four were advertised. The top four were appointed. Admittedly, the head of the Department was appointed by the Minister; but the head of the Department subsequently appointed the others. The purpose of my question was this: Why should these people have the easy road to appointment while everyone else in the Department has to go through the 'Gazette' and have the jobs advertised? No operation of this sort can be organised or directed so far away from the field as Canberra. No such organisation can suffer resignation after resignation of field officer after field officer or of staff member after staff member. The Torres Strait islanders in the field cannot suffer this continual indignity. Honourable senators may ask why they bother doing twice a day, 7 days a week, what I have described. They do it because there is no other payment for them- not a solitary payment. If they do not do what they are required to do they do not get their $30 a week. 
This matter is something that needs to be looked at by all of us. My advice to  Mr Gordon  Bryant- I was in a position to give him some advice- was that he ought to accept his transfer as a favour because the Department, as this area of its responsibility is run at the present time, will wreck many a man unless the Parliament takes a hold and accepts the responsibility of seeing that the moneys funded to the Department are properly spent. Incidentally, the trust fund- how this got through this Parliament I do not know- gets only a single line in the Estimates and is not under the scrutiny of the Auditor-General. How did this come about? How was it set up? That trust fund is responsible for the expenditure of many millions of dollars, and this ought not be permitted. Today I saw the scrutiny that was given to the estimates of the Attorney-General 's Department. The expenditure of that Department was scrutinised, detail after detail. Yet, in the area I raise tonight, by the end of this year $2. 5m will have been expended without proper scrutiny by an Estimates Committee because an Estimates Committee would not be aware of what was behind that particular single line entry in the Estimates.  Senator Greenwood  talked tonight about telexes. We have a telex in the Woden tower in order to keep a hundred turtle farmers, a few crocodile farmers and a couple of field officers in the field in Western Australia. We will not have it for much longer. Most sophisticated equipment was set up, and this whole organisation was promoted in a wasteful way. Tonight I say: Let the responsibility rest where it should rest and have a thought for  Mr Gordon  Bryant. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Research Laboratory at North Clayton (Monash), Victoria. 
I thank the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  for the statement which he has made to the Senate. I wish to clear his mind about the Aboriginal Advisory Co-operative Committee which, in some form, seems to have entered into the debate on this matter. The Committee was set up by the previous Minister. I am its  Chairman.  It was set up to assist in the establishment of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Co-operatives. The other members of the Committee are the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor in Queensland,  Mr Ted  Badger, and 2 departmental officers,  Mr Neville  Jansz and  Mr Brian  Thomas. I cannot for the life of me understand how the Committee entered into the discussion, but there is such a committee. I also thank the Minister for his correction. I stated an amount of $117m, and it is quite obvious that Hansard picked it up as $ 1 70m. As I was speaking to the motion for the adjournment of the Senate, I did not check my pinks and the error went unnoticed. It seemed to me unnecessary for the head of the Department to highlight the error when it should have been obvious to him. 
I come now to the statement which has been made. It cannot pass without a comment from me because it continues the deception which the head of the Department has practised and which I stated clearly would be to the disadvantage of the present Minister, as it was to the disadvantage of the previous Minister. I seek the indulgence of the Senate to draw attention to certain points which may not be clear unless the documents relating to the turtle project are available to the Senate. I made this statement:   . . the permanent head of the Department,  Mr Barry  Dexter, deliberately frustrated the decision of his Minister and in fact worked for and succeeded in obtaining his removal. I regret to say that the  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs,  Dr H.  C. Coombs, cannot escape some of the responsibility. 
The statement, in effect- I must speak about this- is an answer to comments that I made and to charges that I made. The head of the Department has a right to answer these charges. No one denies that right. But he must state the situation clearly. If it is because of lack of knowledge or of ignorance that he continues in this deception, the sooner that he is informed and the sooner there is a full investigation of the documents the better.  Mr Dexter  says: 
There is no truth in the allegations about myself. I would maintain that I worked to the best of my ability as a public servant serving the Minister of the day. 
The answer to that, in my experience, is the opposite. The answer rests in the file for others to judge. I have spoken to  Dr Coombs  and he equally denies the allegations against him. Let me make it clear that before I made these statements in the Senate I saw  Mr Dexter  on 2 occasions. Before I made the statement on the Tuesday I contacted  Dr Coombs.  I endeavoured to see him in the morning and I left a message for him to ring me. He rang me from Sydney. I told him that I was distressed about the events and concerned that he was in a position and had certain knowledge which could have prevented this situation arising. For that reason I held that he must accept some of the responsibility. I informed  Dr Coombs  on 24 August exactly what I feared, the subject of the allegations I made in this Senate, about the misuse of public moneys and other matters that concerned me greatly. On 24 August  Dr Coombs  listened to me for an hour and took notes of allegation after allegation which I made based on information which I had received, but it appears to me that  Dr Coombs  did nothing further about it.  Mr Dexter  says, according to his statement that he knew nothing about those things, yet clearly I had stated them. 
If one looks further one could, if one so desired, seek out the previous general manager of these companies involved in this project. He gave evidence in camera before the House of Representatives Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation. That in camera evidence included not all but some of the complaints that I made. 
I made the statement. Perhaps I should not know of the evidence that was given, but I do know of it in this way: I gave evidence before the House of Representatives Committee and I suggested that the Committee call certain people. One of them was the previous general manager of these companies. He was the one who first gave me some information concerning the accounting procedures which had taken place and which indicated a serious misuse of public moneys. If the Attorney-General casts his mind back he will recall a letter which I sent to him expressing the same concern. It was for this reason that I know just how these allegations were made and how they were based. 
I made these complaints clear to  Dr Coombs  on Friday, 24 August. How did this come about? The Minister on 20 September appointed extra directors to the company. He considered himself the sole shareholder and that he had the right as Minister to appoint directors to companies which were funded by Commonwealth moneys.  Mr Dexter  says that he did not receive these instructions which were made out by the Minister on 2 1 August until 9.35 on 24 August after the meeting of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd had commenced. That is the meeting at which  Dr Bustard  refused to acknowledge these directives, in spite of the fact that the correspondence was tabled before him. I tried to ring  Mr Dexter.  I was put through to his office and told by the girl there that he was on the telephone. Subsequently, after waiting about 5 or 10 minutes, I was told that he was not there. A male voice on the telephone then said:  Mr Dexter  is not here'. About 2 or 3 minutes' later  Mr Dexter  arrived while I was still waiting on the telephone. That did not improve my sense of humour that morning. I also rang  Dr Coombs  and said to him:  'Mr Dexter  is placing himself in an untenable position and I ask you to advise him and advise me how to proceed at this particular meeting'. That was the meeting that nad been frustrated by the Acting  Chairman, Dr Bustard,  refusing to accept what the Minister wished. 

 Mr Dexter says now that once he obtained a clear direction from the Minister he proceeded to appoint the directors. This is not so because I have here the minutes of a meeting which the Minister was required to call. It was a special meeting of shareholders which he was required to call in his office in order to appoint directors to these companies. Yet  Mr Dexter  in this statement declares otherwise. This to my mind is a complete frustration of the wish of the Minister at this meeting and at every meeting of Applied Ecology and Aboriginal and Islander Products Pty Ltd, and I am prepared to table evidence to show what occurred. There was a deliberate frustration. In the afternoon of that day I went to  Dr Coombs  and said: 'Look, we are getting to a position of complete confrontation'. I told him that there was certain evidence that showed clearly that there was a case for the Auditor-General to look at the books of Applied Ecology. In spite of that which occurred on 24 September, we have the statement: 'To the best of my recollection no allegations about the misuse of funds were ever made to me by anybody. If there was concern over misuse it would have been helpful if the matter could have been brought to my attention'. 
On two occasions I attempted to bring this matter to  Mr Dexter  's notice and he dismissed me. In fact, he went further than that. He denigrated me. There is correspondence, which I believe has now been tabled and which I was not permitted to use the first time I spoke on this matter, that denigrates a member of Parliament, denigrates the Senate and accuses a senator of being a liar- nothing more not less. I am surprised to see that the statement has been tabled. This is now a matter for the Privileges Committee of the other place. 
I understand that the Minister has already tabled a copy. 
This man who is head of a Department has no knowledge of the role of a member of Parliament, nor has he any knowledge or clear understanding of the role of Parliament. I go even further and say that last Thursday when I attempted to contact the new Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Gordon  Bryant, I found that his office telephones were out of order. For 3 or 4 hours his office telephones were disconnected. Not only were his office telephones disconnected but also his electoral telephones were disconnected. By whom and on whose direction? It was at the direction of the head of his previous department who, without any knowledge by or contact with the Minister, took action through the PostmasterGeneral's Department and disconnected the Minister's telephones. I would say that if the first matter was not a breach of privilege, the second action was. This man, without any concept of what this place is all about, without any idea of what his Minister's position was or what his responsibilities were, took this action which I described before and which I refer to again now. 
Yet here again we have statement after statement which do not coincide with the reality of the situation and the files are the only things that will tell us just how true these statements happen to be. I have no comment or criticism to make of the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I apologise to him for bringing this matter forward so soon after his taking over responsibility for that portfolio, but it was necessary to bring it forward. I also apologise to him for raising this matter at this moment, but this statement made by  Mr Dexter  cannot go past this point without criticism. 
I do not want to go through this statement point by point, but if I did we would see just exactly how the head of the Department has endeavoured not to tell the whole story. Let us have a look at page 7 of the statement, which states: 
The authorisation of funds for turtle and crocodile farming was as follows: 
In this section  Mr Dexter  is endeavouring to indicate that the funding, and increased funding, of this operation was the responsibility of the present Minister and that because he was responsible for the funding he also should accept the responsibility for what was happening with the money. 
-This document is a statement which has been placed before the Senate by the head of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Dexter,  and it bears today's date. I take it that it is today's statement. 
In fairness I must say that the Minister provided me with a copy of the document that he has tabled. 
-Yes, but the honourable senator would not have it. It is the document which has been tabled. I have a copy of it here. It reads: 19 June 1970-by  Mr Wentworth-for  1970-71, $20,730; 8 September 1971- by Mr Howson-for 197 1-72, $37,000; 1971- 72-through our grant to Queensland, $20,000; 1 June 1972-by  Mr Howson-for  1971-72, $60,000; mid-January-by  Mr Bryant-for  1 972-73, $2 50,000. 
This has confirmed the level of spending previously agreed to in principle by  Mr Howson.  What the head of the Department failed -to reveal here is that this money was provided for in the previous Budget. The document continues:  7 June 1973- by  Mr Bryant-for  1972-73 and 1973-74, $180,000. 
The authorisation for this payment also was signed by the previous Minister but it was signed because it was necessary for the headquarters of the project to leave the University and move into those expensive premises at Woden Tower. The document then continues:  17 September 1973- by  Mr Bryant-  for the period midSeptember to mid-October 1973, $70,000; 5 October 1973 . . . $210,000. 
Those last 2 amounts had to be paid, on the recommendation of the directors, in order to allow payments to flow through to the farmers. The amount of $180,000 that was paid was subject to query by the Minister. He wanted to know whether it was necessary to move into expensive premises at Woden Tower. This was not explained. The explanation of the expenditure of $250,000 is given in such a manner that it appears that it was made on the decision of  Mr Gordon  Bryant and not the decision of the previous Government. 
The head of the Department also states that money was not paid directly to  Dr Bustard.  That is not correct: it was. The head of the Department states, amongst other things, that the payment of $100,000 was approved by  Mr Gordon  Bryant and that this indicated that  Mr Gordon  Bryant approved of the expenditure.  Mr Gordon  Bryant questioned the expenditure of the $100,000, and this is when the questioning began, and it is still continuing. What happened to the $100,000 which was not supposed to go directly to  Dr Bustard?  The $100,000 went to Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd to purchase turtles. Of that $100,000, $15,000 was placed in the Thursday Island account and  Dr Bustard  was the only signatory to that account. 
The first action that  Dr Bustard  took was to transfer $14,000 from that account into the account of Aboriginal and Islander Products Pty Ltd. Up until last month  Dr Bustard  was spending money from that account on his signature alone. He was stopped from doing so by the newly appointed directors. As a matter of fact, yesterday we had a call from the National Bank on Thursday Island because it had refused payment on $ 1 ,900 worth of cheques. Why was this? The answer is that the directors of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd and Aboriginal and Islander Products Pty Ltd gave instructions that 2 signatures were to be required for the drawing of cheques but cheques without 2 signatures continued to be drawn.  Dr Bustard  may not have been aware of the instruction and the cheques may have been drawn without his knowledge of the instruction. But the point I am making is that the head of the Department says that no money was going directly to  Dr Bustard.  This is a classic example of a direct payment being made to  Dr Bustard  because he had full authority for the expenditure of this money. 
-On the imprest petty cash account, we sought from the accountant, Peat Marwick Mitchell and Co., an accounting of all dockets since we took over the companies. I am alarmed to see the total that has been given to us by Peat Marwick Mitchell and Co. In a letter to us that firm states: 
In compliance with your request of 24th ultimo, we have prepared an itemised list of all expenditure from the following accounts for the months of June, July and August: 
Commonwealth Grant Expenses Account-  Dr H.  R. Bustard, Field Officers Expenditure Account-  Dr H.  R. Bustard. 

 Dr Bustard is free to use this account on a single signature and can draw up to $5,000 by merely seeking reimbursement for dockets which are not properly receipted or certified, to my knowledge. Honourable senators should have a look at this account of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd. It shows completely unauthorised payments of wages to new farmers. The breakdown we have been given is as follows: 
Wages paid to new farmers on strength but unpaid due delay advices ex-Brisbane and absence of  Dr Bustard,  $1,147.08. Wages new farmers, $509.58. Ditto farmers, $256.20. 
There is no concern about deductions for income tax and no concern about workers' compensation to cover new farmers. Here is another item listed: 
Two months emoluments T. Nona, $532. 
What does the docket show? It shows that the payment was for consulting fees. Who is T. Nona? He is one of the leading representatives of the islanders. He is one of the people who have been sending telegrams down to Canberra to prevent the Senate Committee and the House of Representatives Committee and myself from going to the islands. He is one of the people. 
Another one who appears on the list of people receiving payments- he is not shown in the ordinary accounts- is  Mr George  Mye, who is another island representative. If we look at the payments made out of this imprest petty cash account we would think, and the islanders must think, that God has come to this place, because unauthorised payments which have not been properly certified have been made. I do not say that there has been any deliberate dishonesty. I merely say that the Department has given a blank cheque to this scientist and to the people who ran these companies, and this blank cheque has involved many thousands of dollars. 
In part of  Mr Dexter's  statement which has been tabled he says that 6 1 per cent of these moneys flowed to the farmers. Peat Marwick Mitchell and Co. made the clear statement that only 22 per cent of these moneys, representing $108,686, went to the islanders-120 of themwhile 1 8 per cent went to Europeans. If one totals it up one finds that that accounts for only 40 per cent and the remaining 60 per cent went to administrative costs. Honourable senators can see why my adrenalin rises and they can see why I become so angry with a head of a department who has no realisation of what Parliament is all about and who allows this sort of thing to happen. The University claimed that it was acting only as an agent.  Mr Dexter  tried to indicate otherwise. I want to read a statement which was made and which was published in the Press. The following appeared in the 'Canberra Times' of 11 October 1973: 
In a statement issued yesterday, the Registrar of the ANU,  Dr D.  K.. R. Hodgkin, explained the University's involvement in the project. 
After some early work both from within the University and under grants from the then Office of Aboriginal Affairs, the ANU in 1971 agreed to requests to administer the grants for the project as agents for an initial period. 
It has handled the money and paid staff on  Dr Bustard's  authority, in accordance with instructions from the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. 
It is fairly clear that by some arrangement by some person, on some person's authority, the Australian National University acted as agent for a person who was not upon its staff. I could go into greater detail. A comment is made here about  Senator Keeffe  which he ought to answer. However, this statement ought not to go unchallenged and it has not been allowed to go unchallenged. 
Quite unprepared but knowing the contents of this document, thanks to the courtesy of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, perhaps I have ranged too far and perhaps I have confused honourable senators but it is necessary for this Parliament to make clear to public servants, especially to heads of departments, that responsibility rests with the Minister and with this Parliament.  Mr Dexter  stated in this document that the Department had no advisers. What, then, was the Council of Aboriginal Affairs and what was its continuing purpose?  Mr Dexter  said that the Council had no authority to make payments. Who paid for the delegation of some 50 or 60 Torres Strait islanders to come to Canberra early this year? Who authorised the payment? Was it the Minister? The question is asked again: How much of this statement can we rely upon? I say that we can rely on very little, and the sooner that it is make clear to heads of departments that the Parliament is not prepared to be played with, the better. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Laucke)  adjourned. 

 -Mr President, I wish to ask a supplementary question. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health been attracted to a report on research in the United States which indicates some relationship between small-pox injection of children and multiple sclerosis in later life? If he has seen the report, is the Department prepared to carry out a thorough investigation in case there is some truth in the report, especially since multiple sclerosis is such a dreadful disease? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the papers which the Minister tabled last night and in particular the paper headed 'Alleged Council Letter'. In this letter the head of the Department refers to a letter and makes comments on a letter which is subject to investigation by the Privileges Committee in another place. Since the statement referring to this letter has now been tabled, is the 
Minister prepared to table the letter itself in this place? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs which is supplementary to the question I asked previously. Is the Minister prepared to re-read the statement on the 'Alleged Council Letter' which he tabled last night? Is he prepared to accept that it goes beyond the comments made in the newspaper and infers and speaks of a second meeting between the Council for Aboriginal Affairs and directors of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd? Will he accept this and, in fairness to the directors of Applied Ecology, since the statement has been made and tabled, table the letter? 
I must rise to the defence of honourable senators on this side who remind us of the Alexander Barton scandal which has been a running sore in the securities market for a number of years. It was responsible, honourable senators will recall, for the appointment of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. To me it seems to be highly relevant to bring forth and to determine here the accusation that the New South Wales 
Government has been neglectful in carrying out its duties and in carrying out an investigation of this group of companies whose record was available. The knowledge of their misdemeanours was widespread and it was referred to in this Parliament and in this Senate on a number of occasions. I even at one stage referred to Alexander Barton as the greatest financial spiv that this country has ever seen. It was common knowledge that the companies floated by this person and his associates had taken people for a ride to the extent of $ 18m. It is not just recently that this knowledge was made available. 
It is considerably worse than the turtles but the underlying principle may be the same. It was known to the authorities in New South Wales that there was a widespread scandal here but nothing was done. Still nothing is done. Alexander Barton was allowed to escape from this country and he will not be brought to justice. Those many people who have been deprived of their savings by the misappropriation, falsification and the promotions of this gentleman will not receive justice. It is most necessary that honourable senators raise the matter in the manner in which they feel justified in raising it, and for that reason  Senator Gietzelt  ought to be supported here and ought not to be the subject of vilification of honourable senators opposite who belong to the same Party as that which is in office in New South Wales and which has done nothing to expose the rackets that have persisted and which have allowed the king of the rackets, Alexander Barton, to escape. 

 - Senator Rae may share some knowledge that I have, but he is one of the kings of the rackets that have existed with respect to securities and exchange. It was unfortunate that the Securities and Exchange Committee, winding up its investigation, was unable to investigate Alexander Barton 's companies. It was unfortunate, because the evidence that this investigation was likely to reveal had already been revealed by investigations into other companies. The Committee would merely have been going over the same ground. But this does not remove from the New South Wales Government the responsibility of carrying out an investigation. It has delayed the investigaiton and the initiatives which should have been taken.  Senator Gietzelt  said that it did so for a particular reason. He has a right to say that and to ask for an inquiry. Honourable senators opposite have no right. (Quorum formed). It is as well that a quorum has been formed because, if it had not been formed and the Senate had been counted out, we would have found that quite a number of members of the Opposition were on aircraft heading for home while one of their colleagues called for a quorum. I have nothing more to say in support of  Senator Gietzelt  's right to demand an inquiry, on the information which he has.  His  standing as a senator is sufficient to allow him to speak as he has spoken and to demand the investigation which he thinks is necessary. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Where is  Mr Petrov. 
Is information relating to his whereabouts still subject to a 'D' Notice. 
Is he continuing to receive financial support from the Commonwealth. 
I should like to give an indication of where the figure of $155,000 came from. As the Minister stated, it does include the rental, which he has indicated was $25,000. The figure of $155,000 was provided in the estimates for the Department to cover the cost of running that office for 1973-74. The cost of running that office includes rental, cleaning, services and the staff that runs that office. 
Yes, the salaries of the office staff. The statement was made that the office cost would be $155,000. Without proving the Minister incorrect, the $155,000 as stated is the figure for the cost of running the office, including the rental and other matters. I make the point that this amount was estimated not only on the basis of running the turtle farms. Honourable senators must realise that $700,000 is the estimate or budgetary provision for running Applied Ecology, which is responsible not only for turtle farms in the Torres Strait but also for crocodile farms in the Cape York Peninsula area near Edward River, and also projects at Mornington Island, One Arm Point in Western Australia, and in the Territory. In order that the Senate may clearly understand the position, I point out that $700,000 is an allocation not only for turtle farming but also for other projects associated with Applied Ecology. 
The step taken by the Government was clearly to cut the estimate suggested by the Department from some $1.1 4m- the figure seems to varyfrom over $lm to $700,000. By its decisions to appoint people to Applied Ecology Pty Limited in particular, the Government was able to cut down on the heavy administrative cost that was anticipated. So that even the $ 1 55,000 estimate of the cost of running the Applied Ecology office at Woden is to be cut by two-thirds by reduction of staff that has occurred through resignation and by reduction in the area of space from 2,600 square feet to 800 square feet for the time being. I make it clear to the Senate that when it became obvious to the Government and the Minister that all was not in order these decisions were made to reduce heavy administrative costs to a reasonable level. I did not enter into the Estimates debate on this Department earlier because of a limit on time, though I had researched all the information that I needed. I have endeavoured to correct some inaccuracies in figures and material given to the Senate. I am now satisfied that the decisions that have been taken and will be taken in connection with Applied Ecology- I am not talking about the other associated companies which are in a state of suspension at the present time- will correct the situation and keep within the allocation of $700,000 the expenditure on all projects, including crocodile and turtle farming and other associated projects. 
Yes. This will be necessary because of some of the unsatisfactory projects at Mornington Island, Borgu Island, the Northern Territory and north-western Australia. 
-That is a problem that is being solved. We should have been aware of it much earlier. We are now phasing out the unsatisfactory projects and considerably reducing expenditure. By doing this, we feel that while keeping within the allocation of $700,000 we can maintain the operations in the interests of the Islanders and Aborigines, who have been led to expect certain things. I think it is the responsibility of the Government to ensure that those who have been involved in the project, especially the indigenous people, should not be disadvantaged; and it is to this end that we are directing all our attention. Decisions that are being made will be influenced by the reports that the Government is receiving, especially the CarrMainSmart report and the Jenkins report. I assure the Senate that at this stage I feel confident that within the Budget allocation the necessary corrections will be made. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as representative of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Government, in conformity with its record of protesting against inhumanity wherever it may occur, protested to the Spanish Government over the executions recently of 2 prisoners? If it has not done so will the Minister express the abhorrence of the Australian people at the method by which these executions were carried out, a method which involves placing a spiked collar around the prisoner's neck and then tightening the instrument - 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, I present the thirty-sixth general report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a brief statement on what you have just said. 
1  am concerned, as are many other members of the Parliament, that the staff of the Parliament should find itself in a position where it has to take this sort of action in order to obtain improved conditions. While I accept all that has been mentioned in your statement,  Mr President,  might I question the advisability of waiting until the staff return to work before commencing negotiations? From experience I would say that this would aggravate the situation rather than aid or facilitate the making of a quick decision. Could I advise,  Mr President,  that you should consider allowing negotiations to take place without the condition that the staff should first return to work? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question about the American prisoner held at Holsworthy. What progress has been made to settle his case? Can we be assured that his problem will be treated with compassion? 
I enter the debate in the few minutes which remain to remind  Senator Greenwood  that he is in Opposition and that in Opposition he has certain facilities available to him as a senator and as a member of a party which has access to departmental officials and experts from whom he can seek advice concerning new legislation. That was the practice which we adopted when we were in Opposition. If Bills were coming through, we had the privilege of being able to ask for the service. We received the service. In that way we were able to scrutinise legislation such as this, and we were prepared for the debate. It is obvious that  Senator Greenwood  and his colleagues have not been prepared to do the work necessary to facilitate the passage of legislation through this place.  His  stand is hypocritical.  His  stand, the stand of his colleagues and the stand of his Party and the parties associated with it have been to obstruct all legislation. The obstruction of legislation has been considerable, although in number the Bills which have been stood over may be few. 
-The solution to the problem is for the Opposition to accept responsibility so that sound and reasonable legislation is debated. Having been debated, it should not be frustrated. Thirteen Bills have been rejected by this place. They are the 13 most important Bills that the Government brought into this place. The Trade Practices Bill is one of the major and most necessary Bills introduced by the Government. When we sought to put to the people the referendum on prices, we expected that the people would be given some reasonable case upon which they could judge the merits of some prices or incomes control. What happened in practice? The Opposition parties carried out a campaign of fear and confusion, to the extent that a 'no' vote was registered. That fact makes this legislation even more important. 
-Your Party in particular has often been responsible for tactics which did not permit a case to be properly put before the people. If the honourable senator recalls the case on the nexus, there was so much, shall I say, distortion - 
Yes, because of the tactics used by your Party and by your ex-Leader who has recently departed from this place. He sat with you for 15 days, but apparently he was not entitled to sit there for 15 days. He must have been aware of it, even if the rest of you were not aware of it. Let me remind the honourable senator of the tactics that his Party used when cases were put before the people by way of referendum.  His  Party distorted, misled, obscured and panicked. That is not the way in which important issues should be placed before the people. 
I return to the subject matter. The failure of the prices referendum and the incomes referendum makes the Trade Practices Bill the most important Bill if we are to combat inflation and the misuse of the economy which occurs each day. Yet honourable senators opposite say, and say falsely, that they need a better look at the legislation, they need more time and they need an extension of time for consideration. Yet the real motive is the obstruction of legislation which would be to the disadvantage of those concerns and those vested interests which support them. It is beyond me how  Senator Greenwood  can say that there is no contact between the mighty concerns which will suffer if this legislation is passed and his Party, because there is a growing lobby and a growing practice of lobbying in this place. He is as aware of it as I am.  His  Party is more subject to it than we are. 
It would be possible to proceed with the debate, and in the Committee stage to scrutinise each amendment and make a decision. But on this occasion the Opposition is not prepared to proceed with the debate. It is using the old conservative instrument of delay by moving an amendment which seeks the adjournment of the debate. 
At this stage I am not in favour of a double dissolution because, in some ways, I hate change. As I am sitting comfortably in second place on the ticket, I am in a better position than the honourable senator is. Let me make this point: Although I may not be in favour of a double dissolution, I think the Senate should act responsibly and should allow the Government to govern. The Senate should pass that legislation which is important to the nation and to the economy of the nation. If the Opposition persists, as it is persisting, in rejecting legislation of this sort, it will force that thing which it seems to think will be to its disadvantage. If it goes to the people with a record of frustration of the Government, frustration of the Government's desire to govern and frustration of the Government's ability to carry out its policy, it is in for a shock. Those honourable senators who persist in continuing with the delay, with the confusion and with the referral of legislation are the ones who will bring about the thing which they would fear if they looked closely at the likely result. I strongly oppose the amendment, and I ask the Senate as a whole to oppose the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Greenwood  and which is not so much an honest intention to scrutinise the legislation properly but a delaying action because the Opposition does not wish to see the legislation passed. 
Debate interrupted. 
In directing my question to the Attorney-General I refer him to an article titled 'The night of the long prawns' which appeared in the 'Australian'. Will he take steps to investigate and ascertain whether a deliberate attempt was made to prevent  Senator Gair  not so much from informing the  President  of his intention to resign as from giving the  President  the information that he had vacated his seat? Will he also investigate the so-called manoeuvre to keep  Senator Gair-  or  Mr Gair-  otherwise entertained to the point of confusion so that he entered the Senate and voted without realising exactly what he was doing? 

 - Mr President, I wish to speak to the point of order. Surely it is reasonable and in order for senators on this side, confronted with certain statements made by the Leader of the Opposition in another place, to seek from the Ministers the consequences of such declarations and intentions. I think such questions are perfectly in order since we are seeking information and since we expect the Minister to give us that information. 
-Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs express concern at the events in Cyprus? What action is the Government taking to keep fully informed of the position there? What action will the Government take to prevent Cyprus from becoming another nation under military rule? Further, will Australia support Canada 's application to have the matter brought before the Security Council. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Events in Cyprus are moving with great rapidity. Has he any further information that he can give to the Senate concerning the situation there? 

 - Senator Jessop made a rather short speech and I will follow his example by not taking too much time of the Senate in discussing a measure that we are debating for the third time. The matter went before the people at the recent election. In fact the Bill is one of those the rejection of which by the Senate led to the double dissolution. It appears to be one of the Bills that will lead to a joint sitting of the 2 Houses. It seems to me to be highly contradictory for members of the Opposition to argue one case in opposing electoral redistribution, as they did yesterday, calling in aid representation based on area, and then almost instantly to reverse their logic and argue against representation based on area, especially in dealing with representation for the Northern Territory. However, we have become used to contradiction from members of the Opposition and to the semantics employed by some of their better contributors. In fact, these tactics have led to a division in the ranks that became apparent during yesterday's debate when the representative of one section of the Liberal Party in South Australia attacked representatives of the other section of the Liberal Party in South Australia, much to my enjoyment and amusement. I trust that we will be similarly entertained as the sitting progresses. 
I doubt it. It would be a strange sort of government. It would be a confused and motley crew that could not come to any agreement in the back rooms or even here in the forum. I return to the matter of representation of the Northern Territory. Perhaps I have more interest in representation of the Northern Territory than anyone else here. I was born in the Northern Territory in 1920 when the area was right on the edge of what is termed civilisation in this country. It was almost completely under the control of overseas interests, particularly meat interests. It is pleasing to see the development of the Northern Territory and that this Government has decided to give it representative government. Instead of the word 'government' perhaps I should say that the Northern Territory is to be given some elective process. Towards the end of this year elections will take place for the Northern Territory Legislative Council. To my mind this is keeping in step with the development of the Northern Territory and may even lead to what has been suggested by the OppositionState status. 1 believe that the Northern Territory will eventually reach the economic and population position which will achieve for it recognition as a State. This may seem to be paradoxical coming from me because I am a supporter of a central government. I believe a central government to be inevitable. As each day passes Australia becomes more involved in international decisions, and for that reason the responsibilities of the States will become fewer as the years go by. It will be some time before the States become redundant. Before that time is reached I believe that the Northern Territory will receive its full representation rights. When the States do become redundant the problem of the abolition of the Senate will then be solved because it has been statedperhaps I agree- that the Senate is a States' House. As the responsibility of the States diminish the responsibility of this place as the States' House will also diminish. Perhaps this place will take on a new role, a true role of a House of review, but that is a problem that other generations will have to solve. 
This legislation gives to the Northern Territory some hope or support for what I am putting before the Senate, that is, that it will receive extra representation, although perhaps a little before time. It seems odd that we should give Senate representation to a voting electorate of 30,000, but that too will solve itself. There is no doubt that the population in the Northern Territory will grow and, as I said earlier, the economic position will improve. In fact its economic position will accelerate and gain greater momentum at the end of this century when the large pastoral leases are broken up. These large pastoral leases have been, in effect, a stranglehold on the territory. Do not say that the people with these leases pioneered the Territory. They did not pioneer the Northern Territory except perhaps in the earlier years of development. Over the past 20 years they have acted as a barrier to the development of the Territory. As these large leases are broken up and as more people move in to take advantage of the smaller leases the Northern Territory, with all its riches, will then increase its population, which will more than justify the representation that we are seeking to give today to the Territory under this legislation. 
One may ask why we have proposed that there should be 2 representatives instead of one. It would be useless to have only one because I feel that there should be an opportunity for the 2 major political philosophies to be represented. When I talk about the political philosophy which is held by those on the other side of this chamber I include all the various crews, all the various people and all the various parties whether they be the National Alliance, the Country Party or the Liberal-Country league. 
I had forgotten that one. These parties represent a potential political philosophy and they deserve the representation which fluctuates from time to time according to their record. If this legislation is passed the result of the Senate election for the Northern Territory will without any doubt be that the other side of this place will get one representative and this side of the House will get the other. Where is the sinister motive which  Senator Jessop  imputed? Where is this fantastic result of two on the Government side in a Senate election for the Northern Territory? After all, we could not even win the Northern Territory seat in the House of Representatives. 
-It will be the same people- the same voters. There is one thing that is likely to come out of what we are suggesting for the Northern Territory. We have, especially those on the Opposition side, for some time been congratulating ourselves on the presence in this place of an Aboriginal,  Senator Bonner,  who has performed his task so well in spite of the limitations imposed upon him by the philosophy which he supports. 
I have noted that this has been stated from time to time. He often finds himself, even though he may not admit it, in conflict when he is exposing in a speech the problems which he has faced, is facing and will have to face for some time to come. But there is a bonus to be obtained out of what we are suggesting for the Northern Territory. As these people receive more assistance than has already been given by the Government it should be possible in this place to have a second member from the Aboriginal people, and that would not be too much before time. For the life of me I cannot understand why the simple proposition for increased representation for the people in the Northern Territory, people who have not got sufficient representation, should not be accepted. This move is an anticipation of their needs. I cannot understand why it is being resisted upon such flimsy grounds, such illogical grounds and such false expressions which have been put forward by members of the Opposition. It would be a simple matter to accept the advice of the new senator from South Australia,  Senator Steele  Hall, that the Opposition should become an opposition and support those things which are worth supporting but should not oppose propositions just for the sake of opposing them because the trap is that when you do that you find yourself putting forward false arguments, unsafe arguments and you leave yourself open to ridicule. The Opposition is at the present time open to ridicule. 1 shall look forward to future contributions from  Senator Steele  Hall. Once more I will look forward to further contributions from many of the new senators who have joined us in this place. I would say that the additional representatives here show promise of producing far better debate than we have become used to in this place. I think that we have allowed ourselves to descend too much into cross-fire argument by interjection.  Senator Webster  knows that I am a reformed sinner. 

 Senator. 

-When I came to this place I was abrasive. I used to sit in the far corner to the left of the Chair and when the honourable senator was in the chair he was placed in a position slightly ahead of me. I am sure he was blind in the left eye or that he could not hear. But he did tell me at a later stage that he could see the improvement. The more he ignored me the less abrasive I became. As a matter of fact, I gave up in desperation. To get back to the point I was making, the contributions that the new senators have made in their maiden speeches have been of the highest order I have known in this place. I am certain that the debates which will take place in the future will be to the advantage of the Senate. 
The electoral Bills which the Opposition is so determined to refuse passage will lead to a joint sitting of both Houses. I suggest to the Opposition that having reached the point where a joint sitting is inevitable it should accept the fact and should facilitate the holding of the joint sitting and also aid the Government in taking the decisions that will inevitably flow from that joint sitting. All that the Opposition is doing is stretching out the process. By stretching out the process there is an even chance, because we are so closely divided, that we could proceed well into the month of August and we could possibly be here at the time the Budget session is due to commence. If there is some reason for the delaying tactics then by all means use them. I am not one to back away from a fight and I am certain that my new colleagues who sit behind me will certainly not move away from a fight. But why not fight sensibly? 
I should appeal to the 2 independent senators and say to them: 'Well, you could make the position much easier. ' But only one of them has been convinced. The other senator, the independent senator from Tasmania, still seems determined to follow without much variation some irrational path of support for the Opposition. I suggest that it would be far better for the honourable senator, if this is to be the level of his independence, to formalise the matter, take out an application and join the Liberal Party of Australia, the National Alliance, the Liberal-Country League or the National Liberal Party or whatever may be the case. At least the honourable senator should formalise his position and join the Opposition parties so that we can clearly know without even the slightest doubt that we have at the present time that his place is with them and nowhere else. 
I am referring to  Senator Townley.  Unfortunately he is not in the Senate chamber to receive the benefit of my advice. But I am suggesting to him that he ought to join the Opposition formally and completely. It would save us from the faint hope that we may be able to convince him that on matters that are important to this country he should vote with the Government. He ought to realise that there was an election in 1972 and an election again last May and that the Government won both those elections. If he is a truly independent senator he should simply support the Government on almost all occasions. 
-He won- 
-He has won in an isolated position, in an isolated situation and in an isolated way. Nevertheless, if he is a reasonable man, as I hope he would be and as I believe  Senator Hall  has proved that he is a reasonable man, he would accept that the Government of the day-  Senator Carrick  would argue this alsohas a right to govern and has a right to continuity. Since these matters have been put to the test twice and an election held again because of their rejection, surely the honourable senator would accept that the Government has a right and- to use that horrid word- a mandate to- 
-I am talking about responsibility to the nation to facilitate those inevitable decisions. Government decisions are inevitable and the honourable senator ought to accept the inevitability of the decision that will flow from these debates, that is, that these Bills will go through. When honourable senators opposite accept the inevitability of this, they will speed up the process. They should not carry out the delaying tactics, these tactics that are so patently obvious. They are used to buy time for the Opposition in case we make a mistake. That is my fear and we should not be given too much time in the Senate - 
The honourable senator may do so if he wishes. 
-No, but I noticed when I was a member of the Opposition that if the Government was given sufficient time it was bound to fall into error because it was trying all the time to govern. The Labor Government is in more danger of error because it is trying harder. 
It is trying to catch up for 23 years of nongovernment on the part of the present Opposition parties. Because it tries so hard, because it enacts so much legislation and because it endeavours to correct the iniquities of society, it is bound to make an error. What I am suggesting is that as a Government we should speed through our legislation. 
-The Opposition has a reasonable right to use whatever method it can conceive to embarrass the Government. But it has no right to engage in stupid, irrational and foolish opposition. That is exactly what it is doing at the present time. Because the decision is inevitable, I ask Opposition senators to save us the time. Vote for the proposition and allow the Bill to pass through the Senate. We can all leave Canberra much sooner. It may even save the trouble of rearranging King's Hall for a joint sitting of the Houses. All this trouble could be saved if the Opposition were to accept that simple proposition, namely, that the Northern Territory deserves extra representation. The best way to give that extra representation- it is not possible to give it in the House of Representatives- is in the Senate. If Opposition senators passed this legislation, they would make themselves longlasting and accepted friends of the people in the Northern Territory. For that reason, I strongly suggest that we should cease delay. We should pass this proposition and we should get on to the business that the country needs us to consider. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the report correct that military rule in Greece has ended? Can the Minister give us any information which might support this welcome news? 
We have waited for some time for the Opposition to take its consensus of opinion by ballot and to decide what it would do. 
I do not know, but it seemed to me that rumours were going around the corridor that someone was collecting ballots from members of the joint Opposition Parties to determine what their attitude was to the findings of the Remuneration Tribunal. Following that exercise an announcement has just been made in this place that we should postpone the Tribunal 's recommendation in regard to parliamentarians for 6 months. That is an empty gesture. As far as I can gather from looking at the figures, such a move means that each senator in this place would forego about $1,700 for that period of time. There would be a saving of some $300,000 across the whole of the Parliament. 
Well, it is about $2,000. I am just taking this figure off the top of my head because I have just heard ofthe proposition. 
Let me put the question clearly to the Senate. Parliamentarians are being used as part of a manoeuvre and as part of a case to be placed before the State governments and trade unions- and here again I use the same argument- and this will be an empty gesture because no one group can unilaterally take such a decision and expect that other areas, groups of people or organisations will follow suit. It seems to me to be an indication that again parliamentarians are to be manoeuvred into a position where they cannot accept what they ought to expect relatively to other people who are serving the nation. I believe that the relativity of parliamentarians to other people in the community ought to be recognised. I am suggesting to the Senate that the recommendations of the tribunal ought to be accepted. If they are accepted we ought to accept the principle right across the board- and that term has been used before. We should then accept a taxation levy. If the statements made by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  are correct and the economy is in such a position that it needs corrective action, that corrective action should be taken in the coming Budget by the use of taxation. The Commissioner of Taxation should be the leveller. If we consider that parliamentarians, are to receive a net pay rise to take their salary to $20,000 a year, we can see that it would not take much to reduce the gain that parliamentarians will receive and bring them back to what they received before the taxation level was imposed. I am suggesting that each person who receives a level of income above a specified figure, whether he happens to be a parliamentarian, a judge or a public servnt, would be contributing to part of the restraint which needs to be imposed upon the nation. For the life of me I cannot see why at the moment we should take this step to postpone consideration of this matter for a period of 6 months. If the Opposition wanted to exercise restraint why did it not make the period 12 months or for that matter for the balance of the term of this Parliament. 
-Well, the honourable senator is making the suggestion. It is your suggestion. 
You stand by it? I am suggesting that we improve on it. I am suggesting that relativity ought to be established. I am suggesting that the taxation of all people at this level of salary be increased in the coming Budget so that the benefit that has been given at this point is again taken away. This means that everyone pays it. 
I would like to point out to the Senate the net gains that would be derived from the salary increases proposed by the Tribunal. The gross increase is $458 per month. The net increase is $179 per month. The tax increase is $226 per month. The superannuation increase is $52 per month. Incidentally, honourable senators know as well as I do that if you are over 50 years of age you have to live to earn that superannuation. Therefore, one cannot really add that $52 to the net gain. Your net gain from the increase at the present time would be $179.63 and the tax increase would be $226 per month. The amount of tax which we will be paying a month is $573. If the state of the nation is as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has said we should reasonably expect an increase of 10 per cent in the Taxation level. A 10 per cent increase would reduce $179 by $57. Given 50 per cent we can decrease it further. All I am suggesting is that this is the time when the tribunal report has come down. It is for us to accept that a member of Parliament, relative to a person who serves this Parliament in another way, should have his salary increased. 
I do not know how honourable senators opposite can suffer the humiliation and the insult which is showered upon a politician from time to time and still refuse to accept what they are worth. This is the only area of employment of which I know where the salary rate is based upon he who does the least and not upon he who does the most. There is not one person in this place who is not worth the amount which the Tribunal has brought down. In fact, there is not one person in this place who is not worth more. 
The honourable senator says that he is not arguing against that, but he comes up with some idle proposition that we should not accept this increase at this stage; that we should postpone it for 6 months. 
Changed economic circumstances? If by what the honourable senator suggests he can obtain co-operation and restraint from the States whether from State politicianslook at what they have been doing lately- State public servants or State unions, I will go along with that suggestion. But such a proposition is not acceptable. We will be merely laughed at. At this stage I am not one who is prepared to be laughed at. The Tribunal report also indicates that the opinion of the Tribunal is against such an argument which is apparently anticipated. Apparently it anticipated, for some reason or other, that we would come into this place and say that the state of the nation and of the economy were such that we ought not to accept the increases. That argument is in the report. 
I do not know the page number but while I am speaking somebodymight point out the page to the honourable senator. This was reported in the newspapers this morning somewhere. I suppose the honourable senator read the headlines and forgot to read the body of the report. The report indicates that the very argument which the honourable senator is putting forward here is not acceptable from the point of view of the Tribunal. If I had my way, and I have to accept a body opinion just as honourable senators opposite accept a body opinion, I would make this a free vote. I would come into this place and say: 'This is the tribunal report. Let us decide. Those who feel strongly against it can vote against it and those who want to vote for it can vote for it.' We can all stand up and be counted. 
Opposition senators- Hear.hear! 
If somebody wants to propose that and if we have an opportunity to propose it, by all means let us have a vote that way. 
I suggest that  Senator Webster  get up and speak his mind as he believes it on this matter. He should not be part of some sort of decision which is arrived at in corridors. In any case, my adrenalin is rising in this matter and it ought not to be. Personally, I think that if it were not such an empty exercise we could do without $2,000 for the next 6 months. People will laugh at us. They are still laughing at us. They laughed at us today and they will laugh at us tomorrow because of such a proposition. I am suggesting, as  Senator Withers  has said, that no matter what method we use- tribunal or otherwise- it is our responsibility to decide and that responsibility comes right back into this place. We can do everything possible to avoid the responsibility but it is still our decision. Let us make the decision. Let us take the advice of a tribunal. Let us accept that advice now. Let us not postpone it. This is our own fault. In 10 years this Parliament has had 2 salary rises. If we had had the common sense to face up to this problem year by year and to give ourselves a fractional percentage increase which the silly system demands, we would not be faced with this proposition of needing at this point $5,500. Incidentally, half that amount is taken away anyhow. The system becomes so silly that a judge has to receive $45,000 which is an increase of $9,000 so that he can gain possibly a $1,000 advantage. My figures could be quite wrong, just as  Senator Wright's  figures were taken at random. But it seems to me that we are caught in a silly system. Year by year we have not had the courage to look at our conditions. Now we are faced with the proposition of accepting something which may bring us into relativity. But we are refusing to take it. I suggest that we face the further dissatisfaction and most unfair criticism, not only of the Press but also of the electorate, and accept this increase because it is justified. 
Last year we debated a proposal that we have a referendum on price control and on income control. We went to the people on that matter. I for one supported it. I campaigned for it. I voted for it and I lost. Now I could say that I accept the verdict of the people. They do not want income control. They do not want price control. Other instruments will have to be used to curb inflation. We need a new understanding of inflation. But I shall not go into that area. I am saying that this Government has tried to obtain those instruments which it requires to control prices and incomes. If those powers had been given by the people we would not be facing this problem now because at that point this Tribunal would have been disbanded. 
I say that it probably would not have come into operation had the referendum been passed. Nevertheless, apparently the people do not want control. At the present time that is what the Press happens to want. Good luck to it. Incidentally, most of the comments in the Press do not have the byline any more. It would be interesting to find out whether the members of the Press and those who write the editorials are prepared to join us in that restraint. They say that 38 per cent is too high. It is too high but it has come so suddenly. It would have been far better if it had been 15 per cent. I am suggesting that by taxation we can bring the amount back to 15 per cent. If what they say is true and if this increase which has been given to us is too high, let us accept 38 per cent diminution and let us go back to what we were receiving. But let everybody else in the same bracket do exactly the same thing. But such people are not prepared to do that. They cannot do it. They should not be required to do it. If the nation is in trouble there is only one way to do it and that is by taxation. I am suggesting that we should recommend wherever we can- either individually or as a Senate- that having accepted a rise we should also accept the principle that there should be increased taxation to reduce the benefit to what it was before we gained it. 
I am prepared to do that anyhow. 
I have a question in relation to this clause. I am not clear on this and I am prepared to expose my ignorance. What provision is there for the  Chairman  to disclose his interests? 
Sub-clause (2) of clause 29 holds a particular attraction for me, and in an indirect way it has been supported by  Senator Greenwood.  Although corporations are supposed to be independent- some of us sitting on Estimates Committees from time to time have considered them to be too independent- the reality is that there has been pressure brought on corporations from the ministerial direction, and this has not been disclosed. The purpose of this clause is to formalise what possibly is going on at the present time. Some subtle pressure is being brought down on commissions and on heads of corporations, and what this clause does, in effect, is force the Minister to disclose such a direction. 
-But it would make it even more reprehensible if the Minister gave a direction in an indirect way and did not publish it in the way in which it is supposed to be published. The point that I am trying to make is that this is necessary if one really believes in disclosure. From time to time this matter of the need to disclose has been brought up here. It has been mentioned several times here this afternoon. My attitude is that what we are discussing is an added and a necessary disclosure, and it would allow the Minister to cover some areas of responsibility in connection with corporations which come under his area of responsibility. Within the very considerable limitations laid down he would be able to express the opinion of the government of the day to a particular corporation in relation, perhaps, to how it should expand its facilities, its functions, and the territory in which it carries out its work. The clause provides also that a direction given to the Commission shall be disclosed by way of gazettal. Having been disclosed in the Gazette, such a direction is disclosed to the Parliament. If the Parliament disagrees with the direction then the Parliament can take action. I reckon that this is reasonable and it should be supported. 
I must confess to some uneasiness in regard to the example that was given by the AttorneyGeneral. Let me give another example in the banking system. If a person goes to the Commonwealth Bank, for example, and applies for a housing loan the bank will put a requisite on that application that the applicant should have had at least $1,000 or perhaps $1,500 in the bank during the previous 12 months or the loan will not be granted. The position taken by the bank is clear. It says that it can afford to lend only to those who save with the bank. The bank argues that it does not believe it to be reasonable that a person who may save with a housing society at an interest rate of 9% per cent and who has practically no savings deposits in the bank should ask for and expect to get a loan of some $14,000. My understanding from what the Attorney-General has said is that this action by the bank would be a restraint under the legislation. 
-Let me go a little further and give the example of a person who goes to a hire purchase firm and applies for a personal loan. A condition of that personal loan is that the applicant shall take out an insurance policy with a subsidiary at a rate of interest higher than that which he would be required to pay elsewhere for the same type of loan. It seems to me that that would be restraint under this legislation. 
-Then what is the essential difference? Why would the limitation be imposed on the application to the bank and not on the one to the hire purchase company? 
-I would like to add support to what  Senator Hall  has said and to appeal to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  not to weaken this clause in any way. It is a current practice for powerful retailers to impose upon the manufacturer not only for discounts, but also for extra services. One large retailer will impose upon the manufacturer not only to reduce price for quantity but also to lay down the condition that the goods shall be delivered to individual stores. Later on, if the retailer is not satisfied with that, he will impose a condition also that they will be delivered in a specific way, packaged in a certain size. He imposes his muscle, as has already been described so well by  Senator Hall,  upon the manufacturer, but the disadvantage is to the smaller retailer because the manufacturer then has to make up the leeway by charging more to the smaller retailer. 
The smaller retailer is being forced to the wall. He is being forced gradually to dispose of staff and to endeavour to carry on his enterprise on his own. He then finds himself in the position that he has to extend the number of hours of participation in his business and gradually accept an economic slavery which is imposed upon him by this unfair practice on the part of retailers. Many manufacturers have been foolish enough to allow themselves to be entrapped by the large retailer. In some cases they have not been wise enough to diversify their markets. Some of them have been foolish enough to fall for the trap of a specific retailer saying: 'I will take the whole of your goods. I will even lend you the money to update your machinery.' The retailer traps him into a debt as well. This clause is to protect the distribution of goods through the smaller outlets. It will be to the disadvantage of the great retailers and to the advantage of the smaller retailers. I would have thought that everyone here would support the clause as it stands. I appeal to the Attorney-General not to give in on this. 
I should like to speak for a few moments because of my concern that nothing should be done in a precipitate fashion. 
I said in a precipitate fashion. Perhaps I should say nothing should be done hastily. 
-Since the future of this vital section of the legislation depends on  Senator Townley  's understanding of it, and since he has taken the opportunity to consult with both sides, I think we should allow him the opportunity to seek advice and I am giving him that opportunity. It would be unfair, I think, to  Senator Townley  to vote on this amendment without fully convincing himself of the consequences. It seems now that he has reached the point of understanding and for that reason I will end my remarks. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Murphy's amendment)  be left out. 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs able to give us any information on the seriousness of the situation on Cyprus? Is he able to express Australia's concern at the breakdown of the Geneva conference and his distress at the renewal of military activity on Cyprus? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There has been a report that Rhodesia is recruiting mercenaries in Australia for the Rhodesian Army. As we are committed to the United Nations resolution to give neither comfort nor support to the illegal Smith regime, will he investigate the truth of these reports? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I am attracted by a comment made by  Mr Peter  Myers concerning the Aboriginal Housing Panel. He stated that it was incompetent and lily-livered. Can the Minister advise the present composition of the panel? Can he indicate how many Aboriginals have served on the Panel, who they are and their length of service? Can he inform the Senate whether the Panel publishes an annual report? If so, is such annual report available to members of Parliament? 
-I rise to enter the debate on the Budget. Tonight I wish to take the opportunity which the debate on the Budget presents to speak on several matters which are of concern to me. But before I do so I indicate to the Senate the reason why I support the Budget strongly and why it did not follow the traditional approach to control inflation. I was one of several persons who believed that at this time we ought not take a big stick to the economy. I was one who did not believe that the economy should be thrashed to the point where many people, many groups of people and many companies would suffer. I believed- I expressed myself once before on this matter in the Senatethat there needed to be a new understanding of inflation and a new understanding of the method to control inflation. I believed that it was highly undesirable to use the methods that had been used in the past, to attack the economy with draconic measures which would result in suffering not only for those who were guilty of exploitation and manipulation but also for those who were innocent of anything other than the desire to work hard and to apply themselves diligently. 
I am not one who supports the time honoured methods, which the Department of the Treasury has presented in the past, of a shake out in the economy, a total restriction on credit and all sorts of measures which would make it difficult for people to operate. Of course this would mean the collapse and destruction of many institutions, financial and otherwise. The end result of that sort of policy was suffering for many people at a very low level who were not in the position to anticipate the consequences of such a policy. It involved not only the individual worker but also the subcontractor and the small businessman who were not in a position to have foreknowledge of what was to come and who were being used, perhaps, by those in higher places. So the people's small capital and effort were being used by the great manipulators within our economy so that when the crash came those at the top were able to use the various devices to escape their obligations, to retire within the limitations of their companies and to survive the consequences of their act. But those down below had to pay the piper. They had to suffer unpaid pledges and losses of payment for contracts entered into. So for those reasons I oppose the traditional methods and support the method which is used in the present Budget, to ease into the situation and to take those softer methods which will enable us to adjust to and face the attack on inflation. 
The consequences of inflation have been imposed upon us for several reasons. Inflation has a base in the actions of those who operate externally and- this cannot be denied- it has been caused by the monetary policies of concerns which are so large now that they spread across many State and national boundaries. The monetary policies which have become common since the last war have developed apace. They have accelerated lately and, to a certain extent, they have been the cause of the inflation which we face. Admittedly, some of the things which we ourselves- the previous Government and this Government- have done to the economy have added to inflation. But I believe the basic cause of inflation- I think I am supported in this- is external. The shake out which is occurring at the present time because of the credit restrictions which have been imposd is severe enough. It would have been even more severe if we had used other methods. It is severe because certain financial institutions have failed. The tragedy of it- there needs to be caution here- is that this time it is the hire purchase companies which are suffering the consequences of financial mismanagement. 
In 1968, 1969 and 1970 it was the share market which suffered. What I am afraid of and what I caution is that the next group of financial institutions to suffer will be the housing societies. Today I saw that in Victoria the housing societies sought and gained an extra 2 per cent in the rate of interest. The housing societies- like the hire purchase companies in the past- are engaging in practices which to me are not viable, which appear to be actuarily unsound and which, in a short period, will place them in financial trouble. As I see it, the housing societies have come into the market and have become pacesetters for increased interest rates to the detriment of the whole community, even though the increased interest rates strike first at home buyers. But the housing societies, by competing on the open market with increased interest rates, have forced other financial institutions to enter into that area of competition. What I consider ought to be debated is whether this competition in higher interest rates ought to be permitted. There ought to be some limitation on the right to advertise, to compete and to promote higher interest rates. 
It could have started with the bond rate but here there is an imbalance. There is dangerous competition between the banking institutions, which have what I think are called the lender of last resort facilities, and the housing societies which, at the present time, have not. The housing societies for so long have remained outside the control of the Reserve Bank of Australia, as have the hire purchase institutions. But what horrifies me is the ability of housing societies to enter into competition and to advertise lavishly. I am not speaking of one, two or three housing societies but a multiplicity of them. They can enter into the advertising area and compete one against the other by offering a higher interest rate. If the interest rate is justified it ought not be allowed as a means of competition in the way that it is at the present time. Let us look at some of the smaller housing societies which are insecure and whose insecurity could lead to the insecurity of the larger housing societies. They have been inviting deposits at high interest rates. Their future depends on the continuing flow of deposits so that if they are in difficulty with the level of deposits they seek a higher interest rate in order to attract deposits. It is unhealthy and it is dangerous. 
But what happens to the deposits? The deposits are no longer being used for the purpose for which the housing societies were created. The deposits which the housing societies are receiving at present are not flowing to the home borrower, because he can no longer afford the terms which the housing societies are demanding. It is difficult for a person on an income of less than $200 a week to obtain a loan from building societies. At present the building societies are having difficulty in obtaining sufficient borrowers to use up the deposits which they are gaining by competing through higher interest rates. Where is the money going? It is going into short term deposits. At present they are able to gain advantage of the high interest rates which banks and other institutions are providing for short term deposits, but this is coming to an end. 
The high interest rates that the banking institutions and finance corporations have been able to offer to the housing societies are starting to fall. I think it is necessary for the Parliament to consider an inquiry into the soundness of the policies which are now being followed by the various building societies. To me they appear so actuarially unsound that even what I am saying now weakens their position. I remember that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  stated clearly in a short speech that the housing societies are actuarialy unsound because they borrow short on a daily recall basis and lend long. What happened after he made that statement? A week later he had to endeavour to recover from that statement because there was a run on housing society deposits. That demonstrates the need for us to look at the basic causes of inflation, that we should accept the principles of the Budget which are that the social reforms which society needs shall not be in any way limited. However, at the same time we should not deny the fact that inflation is running at an undesirably high level. 
Do not let us have any politics about this problem. I have here a booklet that somehow was left in my drawer after a debate about 18 months ago. It is titled: 'Speaker's Notes- The Australian Labor Party- Federal Elections 9 December 1961 '. In support of its arguments it contains some statistics taken from the Quarterly Summary of Australian Statistics December 1960 setting out the inflation rate from 1950 onwards. In 1950 when the Menzies Government came into power the inflation rate was 10.2 per cent. In 195 1 the inflation rate was 20.7 per cent. Let us not get into party political arguments about the extent of inflation. Let neither side deny that inflation exists. It does exist, and at a higher rate than is desirable but it has also done so in the past. It reached 20.7 per cent in 1951 when the Liberal Party was in its second year in office. 
I will use the flexibility I am permitted in the debate on the Budget to move to another matter so that I will not have to speak tonight after the motion is moved to adjourn the Senate. Generally speaking we use the adjournment debate to raise certain matters but honourable senators will accept that over the past year I have been, shall we say, rather restrained. I have not imposed upon senators by causing them to stay beyond the hour that the Parliament normally adjourns. 
-Before you say how good I am you should listen to what I have to say. Honourable senators will recall that about 12 months ago I became involved in a disputation concerning the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
It was. Before I proceed to that point I want to make my position clear. Large sums of money are collected from the citizens of this country. As I have said before, some people work exceedingly hard, some work beyond the normal 40 hours a week, some find that their wives have to work, some find that they have to engage in private enterprise in order to make ends meet. The higher is their accumulated income for the year the higher is the taxation that they pay. It is necessary for the Parliament to see that the moneys raised by taxation from the people are fully accounted for and are not in any way wasted or dissipated. I do not think anyone will disagree with that proposition. For that reason I believe that the most important committee that we have in Parliament is the Public Accounts Committee which supervises public expenditure and investigates conditions or revelations which the Auditor-General makes known from time to time. 
The Public Accounts Committee has a responsibility before that, and so also do the Estimates committees, for the investigation of the expenditure of public moneys. About 12 months ago I disclosed a breakdown in the accountability of moneys expended by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in an area supervised and controlled by a company called Applied Ecology Pty Ltd. The statements that I made at that time were subsequently supported by the AuditorGeneral. In order to support the criticism that I made I accepted a position on the board of Applied Ecology. I accepted that I should not criticise without accepting the responsibility to correct the malpractices that I believed were occurring. At that time I made certain criticisms which should have been accepted as valid, coming from a member of Parliament, but that did not happen. What did occur was that an attempt was made to discredit not only the material that I presented for examination but also to discredit me personally. I was then subjected to a continuing attack to have me removed from the board of Applied Ecology. 
I was subjected to continuing attempts to have me removed as  chairman  of the board of Applied Ecology. To the credit of my Party those attempts were resisted and I was allowed to remain a director of Applied Ecology. What did we find when we began to investigate the operations of Applied Ecology? We discovered that not only was money being wasted but there was also no way in which accountability could be made either by Parliament or by any other group. When I joined the board of Applied Ecology  Mr Gordon  Bryant, the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, also appointed to the board  Mr Jim  Neill, a qualified and leading accountant in Canberra, and  Mr Ray  Thorburn, a member of the House of Representatives. Honourable senators will be fascinated to learn that at the time we joined the board there was not even an assets register to show some sort of control over the assets that had been purchased. There was absolutely no way in which we could account for substantial expenditures. It took us months to go back through dockets to establish just what had been purchased, where it was located and who was in control of it. It took us months to set up an accounting system which could be audited, supervised and scrutinised at any time by a member of Parliament or the public, and which could show what was being expended and where the expenditure was going. In spite of all these efforts there was a continual attempt to remove me from the chairmanship and membership of the Board of Applied Ecology. 
Last week or the week before- the days go quickly- we had the annual general meeting of Applied Ecology. I had accepted reality and decided to resign as  Chairman  of Applied Ecology because of continual friction with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs concerning the program and the direction the program should take. I accepted that this continuing friction would not assist the economic position of 130 Torres Strait Islanders and Aboriginals. If I remained as  Chairman,  and in continual conflict with the Department over the direction which the program should take, these people would suffer. I had some discussions with one of the new directors,  Mr Les  Smart, a very highly qualified accountant from Victoria, who had been appointed to the Board by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh). Mr Smart  was part of the team appointed by the former Special Minister of State, now the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee),  to investigate the turtle project. I discussed the matter with  Mr Smart  and 1 agreed that I should move from the position of  Chairman  to the position of Executive Director and so remove the cause of friction, but it was agreed that I would be able to carry out a commitment to the Torres Strait Islanders and the Aboriginal people. Apparently this did not satisfy the head of the Department who I believe carried out a continuing campaign against me. In fact the head of the Department canvassed the newly appointed directors to have me removed as  Chairman.  I was prepared to put up with this. But I was not prepared to put up with a letter which I received on 20 September 1974, which I would like to quote. This letter, signed by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, was a clear revelation to the Board and me that the head of the Department, whom I hold responsible for the contents of this letter, had no concept of what we were doing, what was needed or the social injustices which had been imposed on certain Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island communities. But the head of the Department was determined still to have his own way. 

 Senator McLaren- Mr President, I raise a point of order. I ask for your ruling on whether  Senator Webster,  who is the  Chairman  of Committees, is in order in continually interjecting when he is not in his right place in the Senate. 
-There are one or two matters upon - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
I want to give notice - 
Speaking to the point of order, I accept what  Senator Milliner  has said. If I had been able to conclude my statement I would have indicated that I believe that I have been misrepresented and at a later stage I would take the matter up. But there is some substance in what  Senator Milliner  has said. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  With regard to the point of order raised by  Senator Milliner,  2 honourable senators at least have spoken and have been allowed to speak on this matter. I do not think the Senate can do anything about that now.  Senator Georges  wishes to make a statement or to claim that he has been misrepresented. Standing order 410 states: 
A  Senator who  has spoken to a Question may again be heard, to explain himself in regard to some material part of his speech which has been misquoted or misunderstood, but shall not introduce any new matter, or interrupt any  Senator in  possession of the Chair, and no debatable matter shall bc brought forward or debate arise upon such explanation. 
Subject to these conditions I rule that  Senator Georges  must confine himself to an explanation of where he claims he has been misrepresented. I call  Senator Georges. 
-The point I was making was that I had been misrepresented. I wanted to make that point at this stage and to indicate that I would take up the matter at the earliest opportunity. But I felt that I ought to make that statement at this point. 
-Yesterday I asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs a question concerning the Aboriginal Housing Panel on behalf of  Senator Keeffe  who was attending a conference in Queensland. However, the answer given by the Minister interests me. Is it not a fact that although the Aboriginal Housing Panel is elected by the Royal Australian Institute of Architects it is wholly funded by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and in fact received a sum of $100,000 for its activities? In the circumstances, is it not necessary for its report to be circulated to all members of Parliament, especially since  Mr Myers,  a member of the Panel, made the accusation that millions of dollars were being wasted on Aboriginal housing through ignorance and negligence? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is now some confusion concerning the position of students from Singapore in Australia. Can the Senate be assured that no action will be taken to deport Singaporean students in Australia against their will? Will the Government resist any such demand from the Singapore Government? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is Australia being represented at the South Pacific Conference currently being held at Rarotonga, in the Cook Islands, by  Mr J.  H. A. Hoyle, Assistant Secretary, Pacific Branch, Department of Foreign Affairs,  Mr M.  R. Casson, Australian Consul at Noumea, New Caledonia, Miss M. McPherson, Head of the South Pacific Section, Department of Foreign Affairs and  Mr R.  J. Tyson, Second Secretary of the Australian High Commission, Wellington, New Zealand, all of whom are officials of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Do any of those officials speak any indigenous languages of the region; if so, which languages are spoken and by whom. 
Do any of the officials referred to in (1 ) hold academic qualifications having a specific focus on the Pacific Islands; if so, whom, and what are their specific qualifications. 
How many years' experience has each of the officials referred to in ( 1 ) had in the handling of Pacific Islands affairs. 
What is the policy framework within which Australia will work at the South Pacific Conference. 
I am brought into the debate by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I agree with him in part but I disagree with him in substance because I think he misunderstood what  Senator Wriedt  intended. What  Senator Wriedt  said was not that the continuation of Estimates Committees of the Senate or the investigation of the Estimates by the Senate was in doubt but that the estimates committee method of investigating the Estimates may be in doubt. And if that method happens to be in doubt it is because of the behaviour of some honourable senators opposite. Their behaviour at these committees - 
-It is not that they ask too many questions. There are questions which ought to be asked and I support  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack in this respect. Questions ought to be asked and the expenditure ought to be investigated but there is a considerable difference between doing that in a general way and the way which some honourable senators adopt. In particular I refer to  Senator Greenwood  whom I suffered for some 2 weeks on Estimates Committee A because he asked for detailed information that could have been obtained from the Department in the ordinary course of the day to day running of this Parliament. 
-By simply asking the question, either by putting it on notice or by contacting the department. The Estimates Committee was reduced to a procedure of embarrassing the Minister. That is a fair political tactic within certain circles. This is what the Minister,  Senator Wriedt,  intended to indicate when he said that the investigation ofthe estimates was in doubt. I think  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack will accept that statement. I would like to support him on the need for Parliament to investigate expenditure. The particular reference he raised- the expenditure of f 780m by the British Governmentbrings to mind just how a government can make a decision which is hidden from the people and which subsequently leads to another decision which is also hidden from the people. When the lend-lease arrangements were being debated and agreed upon, Great Britain surrendered her right to decide how any bomb would be used. That was the position if she wanted the lend-lease arrangements. At that time 2 American senators said that they would not agree to the lend-lease arrangements unless Great Britain surrendered her right to decide how the atomic bomb would be used, a bomb which it spent £780m in developing. For this reason I agree with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. 
The investigation ofthe Estimates by this Senate in my opinion are the most important function of the Senate. I have believed to this point that use of the Estimates Committees is the most effective way of doing this. I do not see why that system should be endangered by idle questioning at the committee hearings and by subsequent idle questioning and debate in the Committee of the Whole, an example of which we have had this afternoon. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1) Is the approval of private hospitals in Queensland, for purposes of the National Health Act, dependent upon approval in the first instance by the Queensland Government. 
Is one of the conditions of this approval a requirement that certain minimum fire protection standards must be established and maintained. 
Does the Queensland Government enforce this requirement rigorously. 
Are there any instances where the Queensland Government has allowed a private hospital to continue in operation despite the fact that an adverse fire report has been filed against it; if so, will the Minister indicate (a) the private hospitals concerned; (b) the principals or owners involved; and (c) details of occasions when adverse fire reports have been filed, and the findings contained in those reports. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I attract his attention to an article in this month's issue of 'Choice' magazine which discusses the safety of children's floatation toys. Is the Attorney-General aware of the article and the magazine's claim that children run the risk of being drowned because the toys are being passed off as safety floats? Will he take steps to ensure that parents are made fully aware of the risks involved in using these toys as safety devices and will he take action against the distributors for dangerous misrepresentation? 
I have no doubt that  Senator Steele  Hall must be gratified that at last he has a few friends on that side of the chamber. It seems to me that all he has to offer to them is a few crumbs and they will come to his support. My memory is not short because I remember that a week or so ago they thought him to be a pariah, somebody who ought not to be listened to or agreed with in any way. Tonight even  Senator Webster  spent some time in praise of  Senator Hall.  I believe that tonight  Senator Steele  Hall has taken a particular partisan point of view. He presented a case which he thought might gain him some support. I think  Senator McLaren  dealt very suitably with  Senator Hall's  remarks. 
What brings me into this debate is the charge by the Opposition, in particular  Senator Webster,  that we on this side had no interest in these Bills and were not prepared to support them. I make it very clear to the Opposition that we on this side find that there is an urgency to get this legislation through. To do this, if we have to deny ourselves the opportunity to participate in the debate, we are prepared to risk the criticism which may flow from the electorate. Our purpose is to prepare and discuss legislation, to carry out our policy and to get that legislation passed. When one considers the obstructionist tactics of the Opposition in this place one can realise how limited our time becomes to pass this and other legislation. The whole of this week - 
Do not interrupt me now. During the whole of this week and the whole of last week the Opposition continued to filibuster, to obstruct and to delay. I will always remember that the Opposition delayed a very important social measure. 
-The Family Law Bill. By deliberate delaying tactics the Opposition is endeavouring to defer the passage of this Bill until next year. To me this is a subtle form of cruelty on the part of the Opposition which is preventing the passage of a Bill when its passage is inevitable. That is bad enough. 
-I am speaking of the delaying tactics that  Senator Bonner  in particular and approximately six of his colleagues have engaged in to delay the passage of legislation in this place. Today we have witnessed the same procedure. We have endeavoured to restrain ourselves from entering the debate, but the rubbish that  Senator Webster  spoke in his contribution tonight needs some reply. As far as I am concerned, even if we must stay here until Christmas or beyond Christmas, if the Opposition is prepared - 
-We will see what happens to you in the last week when you are eager to get home to other commitments. 
There is no chance of guillotining the debate in this place.  Senator Bonner  knows that. We have not the numbers. They have the numbers and they are ruthless with their numbers. 
-When it is time for you to go home we will see how quickly the Bills go through. In the meantime the Opposition is endeavouring to frustrate legislation. Today it is endeavouring to delay this very important legislation. We have heard all sorts of propositions that this Government has deliberately brought the building industry to its knees. Speakers on the Opposition side have failed to state or to declare that what we are suffering at present is a result of policies which were initiated well before this Government came to power. The escalation of land prices commenced well before we came into power. The misdirection of moneys for building commenced well before we came into power. The unbridled development of housing societies without any financial control commenced well before we came into power. The uncontrolled speculation in commercial building commenced well before this Government came into office, and the use of labour, materials and moneys in the building of high rise commercial units and uneconomical shopping sites commenced well before we came into power. In endeavouring to control this sort of misuse of finance, this misuse of building effort, in endeavouring to control these things we unfortunately affected the normal home building industry. 

 - Senator, the causes which led to the restrictions that the Government had to apply were causes that your side was responsible for. If one goes back into the records one will find the number of times that senators on this side of the chamber have spoken about the undesirability of investment in high rise commercial type buildings in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and other places, using money at 12 per cent interest and charging rentals to cover a 20 per cent return for a complete recovery in 8 years. That sort of policy was allowed to develop under your government and, as a result, we have a glut of commercial building in the main cities of Australia. We have thousands of square feet of carpeted luxurious space which cannot be used for ordinary living purposes, and you commenced that. 
-Senator Withers overexaggerates and he has to accept the responsibility for his over-exaggeration.  Senator Townley  also over-exaggerated. Let me say that you people, by your over-exaggeration of what is happening in the economy, have become the producers of the situation about which you warn us. 
The person I am going to refer to cannot be categorised as a socialist. Incidentally,  Senator Webster  must be more perceptive than I because he seems to be able to find quite a number of socialists about the place. My definition of a socialist apparently is quite different from his. To the honourable senator who has interjected about turtles, may I say that the turtle project to which he has referred was commenced when the Opposition was in office and will cost us a cool $2m before it is finished. I was speaking of the over-exaggeration of Senators on the Opposition side. This overexaggeration I am claiming to be dangerous, and I refer the Senate to an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' of today, Wednesday, 20 November 1974. The article states: 
Recession, not inflation, is to be Public Enemy Nol. 
If you read that article you will see that those who predict economic doom are the ones who are likely to cause that economic doom in a situation that is volatile. But what upset me very much about the comments of  Senator Webster  and  Senator Townley  was that they looked upon the prospect of a recession with glee. 
-No. Why were you smiling before, when you made the statement? You smiled well enough, but you have not got the common sense to realise that a recession of the type that you hope for will affect you as much as it will affect everyone else, except that while it will reduce your level of living it will introduce many people in this country to extreme poverty. You know that well enough. Do not come into this place and over-exaggerate what is happening in the economy at the present time. There is a shift in the direction of the economy at the present time, in the building industry in particular, and the evidence of this will be seen in the next few months. 

Let us look at the figure of unemployed. It is higher than it ought to be, but it is a recurring situation. You must recall that in 1961, when the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies had to impose more draconic measures than we are prepared to impose on the economy, signs went up in Queensland: 'No labour wanted'.  I  have not seen such signs anywhere yet under this Government. What amazes me about honourable senators opposite is that they do not properly understand the system that they support. They do not properly look back into the economic history of the past 20, 30 and 40 years and realise that we go into a recessive period practically every 10 or 11 years.  I  would say that the measures that this Government imposed in the Budget were nowhere near as severe as those Menzies measures. Nevertheless, there have been some changes. 
-Nevertheless, there have been some changes.  Senator Withers  is interjecting out of his place, but he is entitled to do that.  I  do that myself from time to time, but  I  do not get away with it. Apparently he has some special privileges. 
No,  Senator, you  missed the point. The causes of the present squeeze, as you term it- the credit restriction- were causes which you inflicted upon the economy. You must know, if you are any sort of capitalist, that you cannot make a decision in a short time which has an immediate effect. The decisions which have affected the economy at the present time were made under your government, and  I  outlined those previously. 
-You are hoping for it,  Senator. 
-I did not say that at all. 
I  am saying that there is a shift in the direction of employment. There is a shake-out. 
-I am going to refer to your comments,  Senator. 
I  am coming back to the Bill. 

 -Mr President, I wish to make a point in rebuttal of what  Senator Webster  had to say earlier. 
Because you were the one who was most vocal and you were the one who most misrepresented the position, and you were the one who stirred us into the debate when we were prepared to get this legislation through. What worries me is that you can come in here and complain that as an employer you employ people but you have not been able to adjust your costs during the year to provide for 4 weeks annual leave and to provide for a 17  'A  per cent loading 
-You have said that. You have not been able to adjust your business in such a way as tq give some sort of economic justice to your worker. You do not even know why the 17% per cent loading is provided. It is because the situation which your Government created brought this economy to the stage where it was impossible for a worker to afford to take 4 weeks' annual leave because it costs more to take a week ?s leave than a worker receives in wages in your kind of employment. That is why the 1716 per cent loading was provided. Surely you, as an employer, should be prepared to improve the leave conditions of your worker. But,  Senator, you  ought not to be in so much distress. There should be plenty of work for you as a cabinetmaker or whatever it may be. 
-Cabinet-makers. The greatest user of furniture of the type that you would possibly make would be the school system in Victoria. Would that not be so? There is a great demand for school furniture in Victoria, because of the increased expenditure on education. 
-Never mind. People are employed in cabinet-making, and  Senator Webster  is interested in it.  I  refer again to today's Australian Financial Review' which states that the State Government of Victoria has spent only 11 per cent of $5.7m offered by the Federal Government for new schools for Victoria's migrant children, according to a Federal report. We find that an amount of $5. 7m has been given to the State of Victoria. 
In this year. 
-We are not having a short adjournment. The point is clearly made that in spite of the high level of unemployment in the building industry to which honourable senators opposite have referred, the Victorian Government has not been able to commit the full amount of $5.7m. This is happening not only in Victoria but also in Queensland. Those States have not been able to expend the moneys which have been provided which would take up the slack in the building industry. The moneys could be used to employ not only cabinet-makers, but also french polishers, bricklayers, carpenters and building labourers. Where is the great hoax? The great hoax seems to be that the States cannot adjust to the changes that are taking place. The changes are that moneys which previously were directed to speculative building by big speculators can now be diverted to low cost housing and to the building of schools and hospitals. 
The States have not been able to adjust, and there a gross under-spending of money by the States, especially in Queensland. They have not been able to expend the moneys. Yet we have this continual cry by the Opposition that there is great unemployment and no stimulation in the building industry. The States have not been able to adjust. The Federal Government has endeavoured to come into the building field through the new Department of Housing and Construction. But in the 2 years that we have been in office, by the obstruction of honourable senators opposite we have been forced to a double dissolution and to another election. We have not been able - 
-It is not a matter of double standards. A lot of money was provided for Aboriginal housing. 
If  Senator Bonner  had been in the chamber earlier and had not just come in- I thank him for coming in to listen to me- he would have heard the remarks that were made earlier. There were other honourable senators to whom he could have listened. I make this point clear to him: The remarks made by the Opposition tonight have emphasised, underlined and re-emphasised the point that there is unemployment in the building industry, that the building industry is running down. Honourable senators opposite have said that there is a high level of unemployment and that there is not sufficient home building. There is sufficient money to stimulate the economy, but the States are not able to use the money in the ordinary housing field, through the housing commissions, and Queensland certainly is not able to use it through the Aboriginal and Island Affairs Department, which is one area in which  Senator Bonner  is most interested. 
I turn now to the present situation in Australia. There are no building commencements, but there are many homes that have been built and still remain empty. I defy honourable senators opposite to deny that the causes of these homes remaining empty stem back to their Government. There was the high cost of land. A block of land cost $12,000 or $14,000 or $16,000 and a speculator would build a house on that block of land. He would lift the price of what we consider to be a modest type of house - 
-We have been in government for 2 years and you were in government for 23 years. The mess that we are experiencing at the present time can be traced back to your government. 
-It is $35,000 for a modest type of house. But the house remains empty. The speculator cannot get his money because no one can purchase the house. The cost is far too high. It has escalated from the time that you were in Government. 
-Wait a moment. The speculator is finding difficulty in selling his homes in order to get further capital to build other homes. But the builder who is building for a person who has a loan has plenty of work. 
-The cause of high interest rates again goes back to the decisions that you made. I have spoken before in this chamber about the pace setting of the building societies which honourable senators opposite allowed to develop in an unbridled way. 
Building societies would be the most inefficient way- and I have said this before- of providing low interest finance for homebuilding. 
I am not opposed to building societies. 
-Let me finish. 
I am opposed to a multiplicity of building societies. 

 -No. Senator Webster is talking rubbish, and he knows it. Any reasonable organiser of finance in the building industry would appreciate that with the multiplicity of building societies competing aggressively one against the other for more deposits by offering high interest rates, there should be some rationalisation in this area. 
Rationalisation means the amalgamation of these small building societies which are duplicating services and running up costs. 
Building society interest rates are fixed by State governments which accept no responsibility for the overall national economy, and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson knows it well. If Victoria lifts the interest rate for its building societies by 2 per cent, Queensland subsequently follows. Unless some assistance is given to building societies to rationalise their operations and bring their interest rates down, the loans provided through building societies will be loans which ordinary people cannot service. Many houses remain empty. Many houses remain unsold. Many speculators are unable to continue. It seems to me to be a strange commentary on the type of economy which honourable senators opposite support that these huge building concerns which enter into land and building speculation, under the slightest pressure and restriction find themselves retreating into backruptcy or liquidation. The poor small employer or employee for whom  Senator Webster  weeps is the first one who suffers in that sort of arrangement. The big speculator goes free. He escapes his responsibility behind the limited liability of his company. I have been stirred into speaking in this debate. I do not think I have spoken since the Australian Labor Party has been in government- at least not in this sessionas frequently as I used to. I have said my piece. I merely say to the Opposition that if it wants to obstruct, to delay, to extend debate it puts us in a position where we may have to match it  speaker  for  speaker. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to a recent visit to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands by a United Nations Commission. Has the Minister seen the report of the Commission which contains some rather sweeping conclusions? If so, does the Government accept the report of that Commission? 
1 came into the chamber in sufficient time to hear my name mentioned, and 1 heard sufficient to realise - 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Now that the report on oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef has been received from the royal commission after  4l/i  years of deliberation, will the Prime Minister expedite the printing of that report and will he make it available to the Senate? Will he consider referring it to the relevant committee of the Senate for consideration and recommendation? Will the Prime Minister also make a clear statement in the Parliament concerning the Government's attitude to drilling in the area of the Great Barrier Reef? 
-I will add briefly to what  Senator Cavanagh  had to say because I had a similar experience brought to my notice during the recent Federal election campaign when the Premier of Queensland sent a telegram to the  chairman  of the various councils on the islands in Torres Strait directing them how to vote in the Federal election.' That was disclosed in the Press. The Premier took what I considered to be a stand quite outside the ethical position that a Premier should take. Here again tonight we have another example of the Premier of Queensland dictating telegrams, inspiring attitudes and endeavouring to obstruct what is reasonable legislation being introduced by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I merely bring this point up and indicate that this is not the first time that the Premier of Queensland has done this and that it is necessary to expose the methods to which he will descend to prevent the 
Aboriginal people of Queensland from being given the justice that they deserve after so many years. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (10.52)-  Mr Deputy President,  I merely rise to say that the observations made by  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Georges  have a quality of speciousness about them because the inference is that there is some mysterious body that has been falsifying messages and sending them through. 
It is not specious; it is true. 
We are not saying that. We are saying that they were signed by the Premier of Queensland. 
That is right. 
The proof is there, because the telegram has been published. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, is in some ways supplementary to the question asked by  Senator Bonner.  I refer the Minister to his many attempts to have discussions with the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs in relation to land rights for Aborigines and other matters such as those raised by  Senator Bonner.  Can the Minister state why the meeting scheduled for 1 6 November for this purpose was cancelled? What alternative arrangements have been made for discussions in the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) For each of the past three years (a) how many nursing homes in Queensland closed because of adverse fire reports, (b) what was the identity of each such home, and (c) was it a commercial enterprise or a religious/charitable undertaking. 
What are the similar details in relation to nursing homes currently operating which are the subject of adverse fire reports and, in each case, what are the details of the adverse reports. 
I cannot allow the remarks of  Senator Hall  to go unchallenged. He may have a case in regard to his amendment but he should not have made the statement, which I think was initiated by interjection by  Senator Missen,  that this was a sort of blackmail. That remark ought not be accepted.  Senator Hall  also made the statement that the House of Representatives is now on holiday. That is a reflection on every member of that place, who like ourselves in this place, have a considerable backlog of work to do in their electorates which will keep them going well into the Christmas period. I do not think it serves us well to reflect in this way on members of the other House. 
No point of order is involved. 
The final thing I want to say is that the further discrimination that has been practised in Queensland is illustrated in the figures of the Department of Health. These figures are completely unchallengeable. In 1973-74 the Australian Government allocated to the Queensland Government for Aboriginal advancement programs $9,957,000, of which $2,243,000 was for approved Aboriginal health programs. But in the following year, 1974-75, the Australian Government allocated $10,362,000. The sum of $2,439,300 was for the health program, with a further $1,664,000 for community aid projects. Actual expenditure in Queensland on Aboriginal health projects during 1973-74 from funds provided by the Australian Government was only $835,523. Had that money been allocated for white people every penny of it would have been spent and the Queensland Government would have been back here asking for more. But because it is allocated for black people it has gone into cold storage or somewhere. At the end of June 1974 almost $2. 4m of the allocations made by the Australian Government in 1972-73 and 1973-74 remained unexpended. 
I do not want to say more. I think I have highlighted the sort of discrimination being practised against Aborigines by the Queensland Government and by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs. It is a blot on democracy in this nation that we have people in this chamber who want to perpetuate this sort of system. The Bill as presented by the Minister ought to be passed in toto without any amendments or deletions. 
-My question which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence refers to the Omega question. Is it correct, as reported in a national newspaper at the weekend, that Omega equipment is already being used in this country? If so, by whose authority is it being used? What is the correct position? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I ask for leave to table a report from the parliamentary delegation to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference in Sri Lanka. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I bring up a report from the Commonwealth of Australia Branch delegation to the Twentieth Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference held in Colombo, Sri Lanka, in September 1974. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. There has been considerable interest in the development of frequency modulation broadcasting and this interest has been reflected in 2 questions, perhaps three, asked in the Senate. Mine is a technical one. Did the first FM station find difficulty in broadcasting? Did it result in some areas not receiving broadcasts? Have those difficulties been overcome? Is it now possible for all people interested in fine music to receive good reception? 
-lt is the duty of the Opposition to perhaps exaggerate the concern when it is faced with Government legislation. That is exactly what  Senator Durack,  speaking on behalf of the Opposition, has done. He has exaggerated perhaps without realising it. It is apparent that he is not aware that during the weeks since the Darwin disaster various Government agencies have been actively at work informing the Darwin people of the Government's intentions in a variety of fields. In fact last Saturday I attended a meeting of Darwin refugees in Brisbane which was attended by representatives of various departments who gave the people who were present a clear indication of what the Government intended and sought the advice of those people. At that meeting I gained the impression that similar meetings were being held in the other cities to which refugees had been sent. I also gained the impression that the Darwin people are in a position to be informed of the intentions of the Government. It is clear from that meeting that what the Government intends to do is to reconstruct Darwin upon its present site because it is believed- the decision was made early in the piece by the then Acting Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)-  that the hard core of Darwin remains no matter what the surface devastation is. So, the reality is that if Darwin is to be reconstructed it will be reconstructed mainly on the existing sites and using the existing areas. 
It is believed that people cannot be dispossessed of their remaining possessions, few though those possessions may be. In many cases the only possession that is left to a Darwin family is the land upon which their dwelling previously existed. It is only right that a person should have a say as to whether he should build again on that piece of land, whether he should repair the home which may be in a position to be repaired or whether he should surrender that land for the purpose of the reconstruction and redevelopment of Darwin. In all the propositions that I have heard the opinion or the position of the citizen of Darwin was the first consideration. It was carefully considered. That is exactly what is being done in this legislation. The position is qualified by the emergency situation in which Darwin finds itself at present. 
It is a preliminary recommendation. 
-The maps which were shown at the meeting in Brisbane seemed to indicate that these recommendations were not firm and were merely suggestions, and that no matter what the Cities Commission may wish to do the hard fact is that the city itself cannot be altered substantially. 
-The Bill gives to a Commission extraordinary powers. 
-Of replanning, yes; but the real essence is the approach to the emergency powers. The emergency powers have been given to deal with an emergency situation, but the honourable senator will agree with me that the manner in which these emergency powers are employed is the real consideration. I am putting to the Senate that the whole approach of the Government to this point, which I believe will continue, is to give consideration to the wishes of the citizens of Darwin. That has been my impression. 
-The honourable senator may raise those matters, as he no doubt will. I notice that he is to follow me in this debate. 
Those matters are fundamental. 
I would say that built into this Bill is the ability to accept such appeals. In this Bill there are provisions which, in spite of what  Senator Durack  has said, will allow the citizens of Darwin, groups of citizens in Darwin and the corporate institutions of Darwin to have some considerable say in what happens to Darwin. 
-At this point perhaps I cannot; but during the Committee stage, when we will analyse the amendments that the Opposition brings forward, we will be able to take up those matters. The amendments of the Opposition will be carefully scrutinised and I think one or two of them may even be accepted. But by and large one will find that the amendments that have been proposed by the Opposition are not necessary. I will not deal with those amendments now. In the Committee stage we can deal with them one by one and perhaps gain by the exchange. 
Let me return to the situation in Darwin. I cannot speak on this matter at this stage without making some reference to what occurred in those few days. I received from the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  a request to go to Darwin because it was possible for me to reach Darwin from Brisbane much more quickly than the Minister could reach Darwin from Western Australia. The Minister in Western Australia found himself in the position of not being able to travel directly to Darwin. There were some problems with normal transport and VIP aircraft were not available at the time. This meant that the Minister had to travel from Perth to Melbourne and then from Melbourne to Darwin which meant a loss of 2 or perhaps  2Vi  days. But it was possible for people in Queensland- I could mention 2 people in particularto catch a civilian aircraft which would arrive in Darwin on Boxing Day. I shared an aircraft with the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and 2 other people whose names I cannot recall at the moment. We reached Darwin early on Boxing Day to view the devastation which in some way has been disclosed by the television cameras; but the tremendous impact of the tragedy of Darwin cannot be explained in simple words. 
It is for this reason that we should say to  Senator Durack  that his question concerning communications out of Darwin must be considered in the light of the tremendous impact of the cyclone upon Darwin. It stunned the city and its people. I am surprised that communications were restored in so short a time. In fact the radio transmission tower in Darwin stood intact throughout the whole of the disaster. Communications were restored quickly and it is to the credit of the personnel in Darwin who were responsible for communications that they were able to restore contact between the city and the southern States. One cannot enter this debate in the Senate without giving to the people of Darwin the same credit as was given by various members of the House of Representatives. I think  Senator Durack  mentioned the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  and I strongly support what  Mr Calder  said. The work of the Natural Disaster Organisation is worthy of the highest commendation. The work of MajorGeneral Alan Stretton also must be highly commended. For a soldier he approached his work with great humanity, and the over-emotionalism which he may have shown in the last few hours of his duties in Darwin was the result of extreme fatigue caused by his efforts during the previous 4 or 5 days. 
Major-General Stretton was supported by a remarkable organisation which was set up by the people of Darwin themselves. This should give us great comfort when we consider what must be done in the future. At least 12 committees were set up in support of the relief organisation. Those committees carried out their various functions in a most remarkable and efficient way which would be a standard for and an example to all other organisations in the States. In fact they were far superior to the organisations which were in control after the 3 disasters that have occurred in recent years in Queensland. I should like to put on record my admiration not only for MajorGeneral Stretton and his small staff but also for the Commissioner of Police in Darwin, Commissioner McLaren, the co-ordinator of the effort, Ray McHenry, and his assistant John McDonnell. I have other names of people who were chairmen of the committees. I could not name the members of the committees because many people were acting under the supervision and leadership of the various chairmen. In the face of extreme disaster and tragedy they did a tremendous job. 
I wish to place on record the names of these chairmen. I shall not name the committees which were formed, but they covered a variety of responsibilities. The chairmen were: Ken Wallace; Alec Orford; Barry Humphries; Captain Eric Johnston;  Dr Hedley  Bear; Bill Hancock; Jack Larcombe: George Redmond; Gresh Godwin; Bernard Valadian; Hyacinth Tungatulum;  Dr Charles  Gurd; Captain Allen Walker of the Salvation Army; Lloyd Wilson; Gordon Williams; and the trio who were responsible for the tremendous job of evacuation- Alan Shakespeare; Jeff Carter; and Ted Evans. This trio of people worked under Group Captain Dave Hitchins, who co-ordinated the airlift out of Darwin. In mentioning Group Captain Dave Hitchins one must mention also the Hercules Squadron which carried out around-the-clock operations for 4 days and without which the whole of that part of the evacuation could not have been sustained. I refer also to the tremendous effort by the civilian airlines. 
I do not think that the honourable member for the Northern Territory would expect me to name him. I have referred to him earlier. If I named him I would have to name quite a number of other people who are expected to do that work as part of their duty. Quite a number of people came into Darwin to assist, but the people I have mentioned were in charge of committees and were, in fact, the people who were responsible for the supervision of our work in Darwin, including that of  Mr Calder,  myself and a considerable number of people who worked there for five or six days.  Mr Calder  was at the airport along with some members of the Legislative Assembly, including  Mrs Lawrie,  and they were all doing the work that was required of them. They were assisting people into planes. Once we get into that area we must name many people. 
-Thank you,  Senator. In  speaking of this area of goodwill let me say that there was co-operation on the part of people of all political complexions and all religious attitudes. In mentioning religious attitudes one thinks most about the Salvation Army and the remarkable effort that it was responsible for in Darwin. I have not seen a group of people who could come to an area of crisis and be so well organised in carrying out the relief operations. But for the work of the Salvation Army even greater distress would have occurred at the airport. 
We could go further and nominate and give credit to the organisation which existed at airport after airport as the people from Darwin were evacuated. It is hard to explain the situation of 600 people being placed upon an aircraft that is supposed to carry less than half that number. There must have been considerable difficulty for people at the main city airports and the refugee organisations set up in those cities to have hundreds of people suddenly before them. Without proper identification it was impossible to send people even to the right city. No shelter was available at the airport in the event of a further storm and it was necessary for the evacuees to be sent quickly away. The fact that the nation managed to handle the evacuation so efficiently is a credit to all those people who worked, and, in fact, is a credit to the nation itself. I do not think the same sort of operation could have been carried out as well in any other nation with which I am familiar. 
I refer again to the Bill before us. The situation in Darwin was one of extreme emergency. It continues to be one of extreme emergency and needs extraordinary legislation and extraordinary measures to handle. I believe this is such a Bill. Some concern has been expressed but it is necessary for the reconstruction of Darwin to commence quickly. It may be necessary to put through legislation with some weaknesses, and these weaknesses may need to be corrected later. One great danger in the setting up of a reconstruction commission is that this legislation may delay the reconstruction of Darwin and not expedite it. We can further delay this legislation by breaking down into political controversy. 
There is a danger that we will delay the reconstruction of Darwin by breaking down into party alignment. Unfortunately this has already occurred in Darwin with the relief funds. The dispersal of relief funds in Darwin has been sadly affected and the amounts of money which were given were sadly affected by the first disagreement which took place as to who would control the funds. In fact when the people who disagreed got down to thinking about the situation it was found that the 2 groups were practically of the same mind, but the damage was done. I would say that one of the reasons why as much money as was pledged did not come forward was this disagreement. Another reason was that party politics began to intrude. 
An anti-Australian Government attitude was emanating from Darwin. I think it is still happening. It seems that because of the sensitivity of the political climate anything that the Australian Government does is to be opposed. That might be fair play elsewhere but in the situation in which Darwin finds itself the attitude is to the disadvantage of Darwin and its citizens. I have said that a continuing emergency exists. It is this: Scattered throughout Australia are many families which need to be back in Darwin and want to be back in Darwin. Many families want to be reunited and cannot be until the reconstruction of Darwin gets under way. The Australian Government is taking certain emergency measures. I believe some 400 prefabricated houses will be sent to Darwin for erection on the people's land. A further 1000 caravans have been properly fitted out so that they can be placed on the land and connected to the sewerage and other services. I understand that those 1400 housing and accommodation units will mean that some 4000 people can return to Darwin. This is an interim and makeshift arrangement but it will enable us to deal with this very human emergency. Many families are separated and people living in the south want to go back to their city. 
There is a need to get this legislation through quickly. I hope that we can discuss the amendments, deal with them and get the Bill through today. We should take some risks in order to get the Commission operating effectively and to the point where it is constructing houses. We could talk for months and months, as we have done in relation to other matters, and not get a house built. In this case delay cannot be permitted. It is necessary to give comfort to the citizens of Darwin beyond the comfort of explanation that I spoke of earlier. It is necessary to give them the comfort of knowing that something is being done, that houses will be reconstructed and that new homes will be built. It may be necessary also to pass quickly other legislation in support of the Darwin people. It may also be necessary to expedite the compensation provisions. Here again we may enter into another area of dispute and conflict. Nevertheless, if we approach this problem in the way I suggested in the first place, putting the position of the Darwin citizens first, I do not think we can fail. I think that the point which the Opposition has expressed is one of overconcern. I think we should pass this legislation quickly, bearing in mind the things that have been suggested. Reference was made to the term of the Commission but it is a maximum term and it is quite possible that in 18 months or 2 years the powers of the Commission can be limited. It is to be hoped that in 2 years there no longer will be a need for the Commission. 
 This amendment is described as - 
I want to repeat what I said last night. We are dealing with an emergency situation and that emergency situation in Darwin will continue for quite some time. One must accept that there was almost complete devastation of Darwin. It would be most unsatisfactory to the people of Darwinin fact it would be most unjust- if we inhibited the Commission in any way. I suggest that it is necessary to take some risks in this legislation in order to reconstruct Darwin speedily I think that the amendment would oblige the Commission to go through a procedure which would delay decisions for at least 3 months, perhaps 6 months and perhaps even a year. This legislation must be considered in the light of an emergency. There is provision in a variety of ways for citizens to assert their rights. What has been announced to date indicates that the rights of the citizens of Darwin to their property and their land will not be prejudiced except where a dangerous situation exists. The city of Darwin is in an emergency condition and will continue to be so. The amendment proposed by the Opposition is one which we could expect if the situation in Darwin were a normal one. Perhaps such a provision ought to be considered after the Commission has been in operation for 12 months but it ought not be considered now because it will impede the work of the Commission. The Commission is to take over from the few people who at present have emergency powers in Darwin. That has been considered right. No one has objected to those emergency powers being held by 1, 2, 3 or 4 people. By this legislation those emergency powers will be passed to the Commission. We hope that the powers we give to the Commission might not be necessary after 12 months but we think they are necessary now. This amendment will inhibit the Commission and delay the work. In fact the end result will be that we will not be able to build homes as quickly or as effectively as we intend under the present legislation. 
I do not know whether the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  intends to press his point, but I believe that the period of one month is far too long when we are considering a city of the size of Darwin, affected as it has been affected, with the people's interest awakened to the needs for reconstruction. Perhaps if that period could be shortened it would facilitate procedures. I therefore appeal to the Minister not to concede on that point and to allow paragraph (b) in sub-clause 1 to remain as it is. Perhaps the Opposition might consider further amending its amendment by reducing that period of a month to a fortnight. 
I must admit now that what  Senator Greenwood  has said has caused me some concern, namely, that a person in Darwin who may have suffered financial damage to his property or to a variety of properties and who had let a contract to further extend these properties which have now been wiped out by the emergency is faced with the position that he may have to pay compensation to the contractor. I would have thought that the emergency, the cyclone itself, this unexpected act of God if you like to call it that- the term 'Act of God ' appears in various insurance company documents, etc.- would have absolved the persons who had undertaken the contracts from any further payments under them. I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  whether  Senator Greenwood  is suggesting that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission should pay compensation to a contractor of this sort if that contract is made between a private contractor and a private individual. Is that what the honourable senator is suggesting- that he should be paid compensation? 
-Surely that would be an area that would be covered by the compensation which would be paid, overall details of which have not been announced. I indicate the difficulty of having to make such decisions. It seems to me that the reason we have not had an announcement in relation to compensation to date concerns the complication of whether people have been fully insured, partly insured or have not been insured. The position becomes even more complex when we listen to some of the legal arguments that have been advanced in the Senate today. I would have thought that compensation of this sort would be covered by the general compensation paid to the people who have suffered loss and damage in Darwin. What worries me also about this business of compensation is what  Senator Jessop  had to say and the extent to which he wishes to extend the responsibility of the Government or the Commission in paying compensation. It seems to me - 
-There could have been 6 months rain half way down the track which would have sent them broke. That is one of the liabilities of the type of business in which they are engaged. But the honourable senator is even suggesting this in relation to a person who had a substantial business in Darwin firms. For example, a wholesaler in the city of Sydney or Brisbane may suffer loss because of the disaster - 
-That is a different story altogether. In the economic recovery of Darwin if the Government decides that it should make lower interest finance available or make available some other provisions such as taxation allowance provisions, that is another area. But it seems to me that the amendment which the Opposition has moved will further delay and make even more complex the act of assisting Darwin. 
-It does in that injunctions could be imposed which could impede the work of the Commission. 
-I suggest that in the circumstances it would be wise to accept what the Minister has suggested, that is, that further legislation should be drawn up, especially legislation that could be drawn up in view of what other compensation is to be paid. We still do not know what other compensation is to be paid to those who have been displaced in Darwin. Until that information is produced it is very difficult to make any provision for other compensation. I think that it would be unwise to put such a clause in the legislation at this stage. We ought to accept what the Minister has said. He has given a firm undertaking, lt is recorded that the Government will bring down, in the light of what the Opposition has said, legislation to cover compensation which may be payable in this situation. 
It is obvious that the Opposition refuses to accept the emergency situation which exists in Darwin and the amendments it proposes show it. The Opposition cannot use as an example the National Capital Development Commission which has had a program laid out for it in the past for quite a number of years into the future. Nor can the Opposition compare the Darwin situation with the Albury-Wodonga situation or for that matter with the Snowy River Engineering Corporation because there was a particular task to do in an ordinary situation. What the Opposition is proposing to do in effect is in some way to water down the position of the Minister. In the long term what it is proposing is possibly what we are proposing but it will cause delays. 
Let me say to  Senator Carrick  that Darwin is an emergency situation. A state of emergency exists in Darwin and this is the point we have been trying to get across to the Opposition. For the time being and perhaps for at least 12 months there will continue to be an emergency situation in which the lives of people will be affected. 
A state of emergency is declared in a hurry. We have had evidence of states of emergency being declared in Queensland where the crisis has been lesser. We have had states of emergency for a variety of reasons. But now we have a whole city devastated and what we are doing is bringing down emergency provisions to give emergency powers. 
-The power that we are giving to the Minister will facilitate the shortening of that period because the Minister in his position of authority under the Bill, a position which the Opposition does not give him, can bring this Commission to an end and pass across its authority to the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory. I think we all accept that eventually it is the Legislative Assembly that ought to have the responsibility, having been provided with money, to build the future of Darwin after the emergency situation has passed. The Minister will be in a position to quickly wind up the Commission but under the Opposition's proposal there will be a conflict between the Minister and the Commission, a running fight, and we have seen these running fights between authorities and Ministers before. It will delay the reconstruction of Darwin and the passing over of powers from the Commission to authorities or a corporate institution in Darwin which will have to bear the full burden. Again I say to the Opposition that we ought not to do anything that delays the reconstruction of Darwin. We have already delayed it for two and a half months. I am not talking about 5 days. The Parliament had to meet and it has taken some time. 
Yes, but it did not and perhaps you may be able to lay some blame on the Government. Nevertheless  Vh  months have gone by and we are going to take another 2 days. We are taking 2 or 3 days to get this legislation through. It will go back to the other place and it is possible that it will take 5 or 6 days to get it through. This time should be added to the  Vh  months which have passed already. The Opposition now is proposing to move this sort of situation into the Northern Territory and to impede the ability of the Minister and the Commission to carry out the emergency work. This is an emergency situation. The disaster which hit Darwin was a disaster that could hit a city only in time of war. Even in time of war the disaster would not be as complete as the disaster that hit Darwin. It is a completely devastated area. In fact we really should have a state of emergency there. The Government did not declare a state of emergency but by means of legislation it is seeking emergency powers to enable a Commission to do this work. The Commission has been set up and is already operating in a preparatory role. We want to give that Commission power to start work. We want to make certain that the provisions in the enabling Act are such that they do not delay the work of the Commission but we still want to leave power there for the Minister and the Government to do what is necessary to correct any error of which the Commission may be guilty. 
To my mind it is important to appreciate the emergency and in doing so we ought not at this stage to be imposing provisions which will delay the operation. If I become heated it is because, as I remind honourable senators opposite, there are many people living in conditions of psychological pressure in the various States of Australia and the situation is becoming worse for them. I think all honourable senators would accept that point of view. It is necessary to enact emergency legislation of this sort and to take some risks in order to correct the situation. I think that the situation in Darwin could justify the continuation of emergency provisions which make one man virtually the controller of Darwin. That illustrates how bad the situation is. But, rightly, the Government now is moving away from that situation and transferring power to the Commission. Upon that Commission will be represented some of the most able people in Darwin. They will be supported by an advisory council which will be further assisted by that special type of person that seems to have developed in Darwin, the person with initiative and enterprise who, given this sort of legislation, can immediately set about building homes and re-establishing families in Darwin. 
 The Opposition proposes- it is likely to succeed because of the numbers- having 2 members of the Legislative Assembly on the Commission. If Opposition senators were sincere in their purpose they would perhaps have provided for membership on the Commission of a member of the Opposition of the Legislative Assembly. I know that the numbers in the Legislative Assembly are such that there is virtually no opposition, but there happen to be 2 independent members. 
Why does the honourable senator not move it? He has been insisting all afternoon on reading out his amendments line by line. 
I am suggesting - 
I am prepared to make it clear that I think the Legislative Assembly, the Darwin City Corporation and the citizens of Darwin are well represented without increasing the numbers on the Commission. It is the Opposition which is seeking to increase the numbers. If the Opposition was sincere it would at least spell out what it intends doing if it does have its way. The representation from the Legislative Assembly should reflect the Legislative Assembly. If my suggestion were adopted one member would come from the majority party and one from the minority party. 
I suggest that the honourable senator moves it. 
All I am saying is that the Opposition should express its sincerity by - 
I am against the increase. I have told the honourable senator that it is not necessary to' have the increase. It appears that the Opposition will have its way because it has the numbers at the moment- at least I think it has the numbers. 
We are done, are we? I have been told by the independent - 
We should have given  Senator Steele  Hall leave to make a statement to declare exactly where he stands. Is the honourable senator an independent, a Liberal or what? 
I was diverted by the interjection. It was suggested that I was up a wattle, that  Senator Hall  had a saw and he was about to cut down the tree. Let me get to the point. This amendment will increase the numbers on the Commission without making provision for the minority group in the Legislative Assembly and highlights the insincerity of the approach of members of the Opposition. It merely points out that the Opposition wants to introduce into this Commission the political conflicts which we are seeking to avoid. The responsibility will be the Opposition's if the reconstruction of Darwin is delayed. 
I would like to dispose of it but surely we cannot get through the rest of these amendments in 5 minutes. I point out that in spite of what  Senator Durack  said the record shows that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and its members have taken an anti-Australian Government attitude from the very early days. 
I want to make this point because honourable senators on the Government side have been accused of being stirred to anger and of making insulting remarks about the Legislative Assembly. Perhaps we have been stirred to adopt this attitude by overactivity on the part of the Legislative Assemby One does not mind a lobby in this place but it gets a little bit irritating to see pieces of paper being passed from the visitors' gallery into the body of this place, admittedly through the attendants. Honourable senators can see the reaction. 
-There is a difference between colleagues and people from another place. Let us examine the initiative taken by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. It has been an attitude of anti-Australian Government. Let us go back to the time of the Committee which was set up to control the moneys collected. There was the first sign of an anti-Australian Government attitude. People opposed to the Government, especially members of the Country Party and the National Party, automatically take that attitude. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order ! If the honourable senator would bear with me, I did indicate at the outset of the discussion on this Bill that I intended to keep the debate firmly to the amendments before the Chair. Will you please attempt to connect your remarks with the amendment before the Committee. 

 -Mr Chairman, with respect to your excellent chairmanship, I would say that if you permitted, unwittingly, someone on the other side to make certain remarks it is quite unfair to limit my opportunity to reply to those remarks, lt could have started an hour or so ago. Nevertheless, I need some small opportunity to indicate that it does not do members of the Legislative Assembly any good to take the attitude that they will be dispossessed in any legislation or in this legislation. It would be far better for them to appreciate the co-operation which the Australian Government extends. I wanted to give an example. When the Citizens' Council was set up in Darwin to handle the funds there were some utterances from Darwin which seemed to indicate that the Australian Government would take over in Darwin and that the citizens would be excluded. Yet the Council which was set up in Darwin by the Minister for the Northern Territory at the time to handle these funds had on it certain citizens, including a representative from the Legislative Assembly. Provision was made for a representative from the Corporation of the City of Darwin. Yet both bodies have taken an anti-Australian attitude and have refused to appoint people to the Commission. All I am saying is that it has not assisted us to see this petty party political attitude on the part of the Legislative Assembly. It does not do any good. 
I will do so. I must admit that I have made my point. 
It does not. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs may have somewhat misconstrued what is intended by the amendment. The establishment of the Commission will not be delayed. It will take some time. I think the Minister's fear was that the Commission might have to wait for the nomination from the Darwin Citizens' Council. It might be 1, 2 or 3 months before that person was nominated. That is not the case. I think that is where we first disagreed. I was stirred into making this speech by remarks which  Senator Durack  made. They needed to be cleared up. 
I want to speak to the amendments which have been proposed by  Senator Durack.  There must be strong opposition to these amendments. I trust that  Senator Hall  who said that I was up a wattle tree last time will accept that I am not up the same tree this time. Surely strong opposition should be offered because if we are to attract as General Manager a person of considerable ability and standing in his profession to carry out the enormous task which he will have to do he must be assured of some independence of position, especially since the Commission has developed into a political committee. By way of amendment it has developed into a committee which reflects the political attitude of a variety of people and organisations in Darwin. 
Surely it is. 
I am not arguing that it should not be. All I am arguing is the character of the Commission. The 7 members upon whom we have decided would be of a political persuasion which might, from time to time, be divisive. Therefore we have a general manager who is at the mercy of the majority or even the minority of the Commission. To a certain extent the General Manager needs to be independent and assured of some continuity of employment. I would say that there is nothing objectionable about the Commission recommending who the General Manager should be. I imagine that the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  would state that the Commission would recommend the appointment of the General Manager to the Governor-General. Surely that is the way the appointment would take place. 
If, on the other hand, the General Manager is not fulfilling his duties as the Commission thinks he ought, then the recommendation to the Governor-General would be that he should be removed from his position. But he must have some surety of position and the feeling that he is in some way not completely dependent upon the Commission for the continuity of his employment. So providing that the Commission has the power, duty or responsibility to recommend surely there is nothing wrong with the clause as it appears in the Bill. I suggest to the Opposition that its amendment would not improve the situation. In fact, it would lessen the effectiveness of the Commission and of the General Manager. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Durack's amendments)  be left out. 
There seems to be some conflict here. We have removed the words 'is prescribed' and replaced them by the words 'determined by the Commission' in clause 30(1) on line 20. Then clause 30(2) reads: 
This section has effect subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1974. 
I may be wrong again- I am prepared to risk that- but is the Remuneration Tribunal responsible for determining the amount that shall be paid to the General Manager? If that is the case, why did we decide early in the piece to give that power to the Commission? Is someone prepared to move an amendment to insert that provision? I thought that under the Remuneration Tribunals Act the Tribunal came down with a recommendation as to what salary should be paid to these people and many others, including parliamentarians. The recommendation lies in the Parliament for 14 days and if there is no objection we pay the amount that has been determined. How then can the Commission determine the amount? This means that there is a conflict in that clause that needs to be resolved here before we go any further. 
I must come to the defence of the Minister. I want to assure  Senator Hall  that by nature I am not a suspicious person. What caused the Minister to suspect that there may be some untidy motive was what happened in the first few days. In the first few days after the cyclone the Administrator of the Northern Territory and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  appointed a council to supervise the fund. I am not wandering away from the point,  Mr Chairman.  It is important now that the matter has been raised that it be cleared. The people appointed to that committee were highly respected citizens of Darwin representing a variety of bodies.  Mr John  McDonnell was  chairman  of that committee. On it also were a Captain Alan Walker from the Salvation Army, Frank Trainor from the Red Cross, Reverend Graham Bence from the United Churches, Bernard Valadian from the Aboriginal Foundation, Ted Robertson from the Regional Welfare Council, a representative from the Darwin Corporation and a representative from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. What happened? The Legislative Assembly objected strongly to that committee because it did not agree with its complexion. Yet these people were leading citizens. The impression given at that time was that the Australian Government was endeavouring to take unto itself authority and responsibilities which should have been those of the Darwin citizens. The Australian Government appointed these people through the Administrator and the Minister for the Northern Territory. 
Honourable senators can see why we are suspicious when the Legislative Assembly objected to these worthy citizens being in control of that fund. The Legislative Assembly subsequently came to some agreement with them. If it objected to those worthy citizens of Darwin being on that committee honourable senators can see why we are prejudiced against allowing the Legislative Assembly to determine who shall be appointed to the Darwin Citizens' Council. Those organisations and others representing Darwin citizens will be able to nominate people. The provisions of clause 44 ought to be considered together with the provisions of clause 45. Nothing could be more democratic in its approach and of more advantage to the Darwin citizens than clauses 44 and 45. They allow for the nomination of people from a variety of community organisations and even individuals. The clauses only give to the Minister the power to determine the number and the right to determine that the character of this organisation should spread further than the character or composition of the original Commission. For that reason I think that  Senator Hall  showed good sense in opposing the amendment. 
Let me correct  Senator Webster  a little further. He stated that  Mr Katter  had no means of making any communication with the south. Let me inform him that I made arrangements with Trans-Australia Airlines that 4 people only would travel on from Mount Isa to Darwin on Boxing Day. One of those 4 people was  Mr Katter.  Another was a  Mr Lloyd  Wilson, who was to be in charge of natural disasters. He was baptised in that role quite early. Nevertheless there were 4 people moving on from Mount Isa. Some of the passengers who left the plane at Mount Isa made representations to me to see whether they too could travel from Mount Isa to Darwin. I contacted the south, in fairness to them, and after some considerable discussion the permission was given providing that I was prepared to take the responsibility for taking extra people into Darwin. I would not accept that responsibility. 

 Mr Katter made several telephone calls from Mount Isa. I am not certain whether one of those calls was to make arrangements for some facilities in Darwin. Perhaps he was not aware of the situation in Darwin. It is said that it was from Mount Isa that  Mr Katter  tried to make the necessary arrangements through his secretary for transport facilities in Darwin. Be that as it may, the plane taxied off to go towards Darwin and was called back so that  Mr Katter  could be informed that if he was prepared to accept the responsibility of taking passengers further on from Mount Isa in response to representations made by him, he could do so. He accepted that responsibility and a few more people went on to that plane. 
I am only saying to  Senator Webster  that  Mr Katter  made several phone calls from Mount Isa. The reports are that whilst he may have been foolish, one of those phone calls was in the expectation that there would be some facilities in Darwin. He was soon disillusioned. When he got to Darwin the situation was bad. Anyone who considered that there might be facilities for sleep or travel in Darwin was quickly disillusioned. Let us make the point clear. The statement that  Senator Keeffe  made was well based and was possibly close to the truth of the matter on which  Senator Keeffe  received information. It is not fair for  Senator Webster  to say that  Senator Keeffe  was not telling the truth. 
I believe the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation is aware that a number of veterans who were involved in war time experiments with poison gas are concerned still about their entitlements to repatriation benefits. Has the Minister received many inquiries about this from veterans? Will he outline the compensation that is available to them? Does the Department of Repatriation and Compensation have any evidence that these experiments were conducted? If so, where and how? 
.- One has learnt to expect sincerity from 

 Senator Scott who has just sat down. One knows he has a quiet approach to whatever subject he speaks upon. However, his argument is not soundly based. The argument which his Party, the Australian Country Party, and the Opposition put forward is not soundly based. Over the past 2 years since the Australian Labor Party has come into Government we have witnessed a progression of decisions and of attitudes on the part of the Opposition which has frustrated legislation, not so much because the legislation is good or bad but because it has been initiated by the Australian Labor Party Government which remained in Opposition for some 23 years. Having come into Government it was determined to alter the pattern which had been established by the conservative parties over so many years. The Australian Labor Party in Government has endeavoured to establish Australia as a nation in a variety of fields. It has endeavoured in the field of foreign affairs to establish its name as an independent nation. In the area of trade it has endeavoured to do the same. And in the development of its resources, it has also endeavoured to do the same. 
For some reason the Opposition parties have taken the view that this is wrong, that this is centralist, that this is socialist and that it takes away from the States their rights. But surely the Opposition must come to the point of decision. It must determine that the riches of this nation must be considered in a national way. In the field of exploitation of our mineral resources, of our riches, we must work as a nation. If we work not as 6 States but as a nation the decisions must be made from a central point. I would have thought that after 74 years of federalism, as we shall term it, at least we would have progressed to the point where we decided that responsibility for these matters must rest in national hands. For the life of me I cannot understand why so many people and why so many honourable senators want to go back 74 years to the time when the Constitution was established. 
It has been said that the Constitution was drawn up by a group of frightened conservatives trying to impose upon the future the limitations of their own time. Surely this can be and has been discounted. But when one listens to the debates which have taken place in the Senate over the past two or three weeks one begins to believe that the conservatives of the past were afraid of the reforms which were likely to flow from federalism, from a central government, and that these reforms may be to the disadvantage of the conservative parties. The Opposition, the LiberalCountry Party coalition, has always to my mind been a strange coalition. It is really a coalition of conflicting interests. The Liberal Party represents the great financial interests of this country. 
The trouble is that farmers, who are a section of the people you represent- not all the people you represent,  Senator Sheil-  are socialist in time of deprivation, in time of bad prices and in time of falling world prices. Then they are the greatest socialists of the lot. But when there is a profit to be made, that is different. When they are in trouble-  Senator, you  ought to know about this- they seek Government assistance, centralist assistance, socialist assistance. But once there is a profit to be made, once the prices are high, such people want to keep the Government out of that area. They say that it is none of the Government's concern. So when the honourable senator talks about centralist assistance I ask him to remember that point. Apparently this strange coalition of the Liberal and Country Parties has established itself as the most conservative force which, in this place, is determined to oppose progress. 
It is progress towards nationhood. 
Backwards! At least we do not progress right back to 1901. Last night I listened to the honourable senator talking about colonies, dominions and appeals to the Privy Council. He was speaking not of 1974 but of 1 90 1 . We made no progress in 74 years. 
-The conservatism of the Opposition has expressed itself in opposition to much legislation in this place. Looking at the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill and the Minerals (Submerged Lands) (Royalty) Bill which are before us tonight one feels as if one has been on a merry-go-round. The Bill was introduced in the other place. It came here. It went back to the other place. It has come here. It has gone back. It is back here again. It has been rejected on every occasion by the Opposition. It has been continually rejected not because the legislation ought to be rejected but because the Opposition is determined to frustrate this Government in establishing Australia as a nation in control of its resources and its destiny. This legislation originated in the Liberal Party. It is Gorton legislation. The honourable senator talks about turtles. If I might say so, the Opposition has turned turtle completely on this legislation and it is prepared to place the interests of this nation at the whim of 6 State Governments, whose responsibility in this area has been diminished by the progress and development of the nation itself. 
The States have ceded powers to the central government. How much more is it necessary for the powers over resources, over minerals both on-shore and off-shore, to be vested in the central government? What is wrong with centralism when it is so expressed? What is wrong with protection that will prevent each State from competing against another State, especially when it makes an agreement with an outside nation? At the present time we have the spectacle of the Queensland Premier suggesting that he should take unilateral action in negotiations with Japan on the basis that if Japan does not buy beef from Queensland it does not get coal. That is the sort of decision making that the Opposition wants to be continued. That sort of decision making cannot be permitted. The sellers of coal in Queensland surely ought not to compete against the sellers of coal in New South Wales or any other place. The approach to nations which buy from us should be an approach from a single seller to a single buyer, but if we were to listen to the Opposition we would go back to the position where the Queensland Premier could say: 'They must buy our beef or they will not get coal. They must not buy Tasmanian beef because that is some place far to the south, but they must buy Queensland beef. The Premier of Queensland is not only dishonest- shall I say stupid- in his approach, but he is also dishonest because he does not give the real reason for the refusal. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order!  Senator, you  will not reflect upon the Premier in that way. 
I reserve the right - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I ask you to withdraw the remark that the Premier is dishonest. 
I am not a sensitive person. Could I make an explanation,  Mr Deputy  President? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  No. You made the remark and under the Standing Orders you are not permitted to make such a remark. I ask you to withdraw it. 
-Yes, of course; I withdraw that remark. I hope the Premier of Queensland withdraws the numerous remarks he has had made about me in the past and for which I sought no withdrawal, either here or in any other place. He is free to make those remarks if he wishes. He can stand by his remarks and I will stand by mine. I will withdraw the word 'stupid'; but he has been dishonest in his approach because he has not explained to the cattlemen of Queensland the true reason why Japan cannot purchase beef from Queensland or any other place, no matter how much it may want to purchase beef. It is because the price of wheat and grain has trebled throughout the world and the cattle raisers in Japan can no longer lot feed their cattle, so that the breeding herds - 
-This legislation is of a type that needs a unified centralist approach which can be taken only by the Australian Government. I am explaining how a State can take unilateral action to the disadvantage of the whole of Australia, and that has happened in Queensland. I have merely indicated that the Premier of Queensland has been dishonest, as has the Premier of Western Australia, in these matters of trade. What a scene of disarray, commercially and otherwise, there would be if each of the States were to have power over the exploitation of mineral resources. It is most necessary that the Australian Government should have control over the resources, mineral and otherwise, of this nation of ours. The off-shore legislation which  Mr Gorton  conceived would have given to us one great advantage from a conservation point of view. For the moment let us put aside the area of mineral exploitation, the search for oil, both off-shore and on-shore. I disagree with  Senator Scott,  who said that the reason why there has been a fall off in exploration is because of the centralist approach of this Government, because of legislation enacted in a variety of fields and the establishment of the portfolio of Minerals and Energy. The reason why there has not been substantial exploration for minerals and oil is beca use of the aftermath of the collapse of the stock exchange. The investor in Australia has lost confidence and will not invest in this high risk area that the honourable senator has been speaking about because the method by which the stock exchanges operate in Australia has led to a complete lack of trust by the Australian investor in mining exploration and oil exploration. There is no doubt that this did happen and it will be quite some time before that confidence is restored. In fact, we are going to witness again how this Senate can frustrate the Government's desire to bring some regulation and honesty into stock market procedures, which the stock exchanges accept by and large. It is mainly for that reason and not so much for the reason that  Senator Scott  gave that there has not been exploration for both hard minerals and oil over the past year or two. 
I come now to the need for central government control of what are now national responsibilities. The Great Barrier Reef is still at the mercy of the exploiter who seeks to make a quick fortune, the exploiter who hopes by some manipulation on the stock markets to move into an area, to search, perhaps to find a trace of oil, to make a quick kill on the stock exchange and to move out. This has been the history in the past; it will happen again in the future. This will develop in the future if we do not accept nationally some responsibility for our off-shore mineral exploitation. The Royal Commission on the Great Barrier Reef took almost 5 years to present its findings. Those of us who are concerned about the Great Barrier Reef cared little about the fact that it took 5 years to bring down its findings because while the Commission was in operation a 5-year moratorium was established over the Great Barrier Reef. But now the Commission, in a divided opinion, has brought down its findings and the  Chairman  of the Commission, an Australian, said that there should be no exploration on the Great Barrier Reef until such time as there had been much greater research. The other 2 Commissioners, who were not Australian- one being a Canadian and the other being from the United Kingdomhad no immediate national responsibility for the area. They came down with a proposition that, providing there are buffer zones, it is safe to drill on the Great Barrier Reef. 
To my mind, unless the National Parliament passes this legislation, the National Parliament and the nation's people will not have control over what happens in that vast area of the Great Barrier Reef. While there is a divided responsibility between this Parliament and the Parliament of Queensland the Great Barrier Reef stands under threat and will continue to stand under threat. At the present time it is quite possible for the Queensland Government, with its vast National Party-Liberal Party majority, to grant a permit for drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. Here we have a State Government with a Premier who has an interest in the Great Barrier Reef, and he has not divested himself of that interest. He has an interest in a company which has a lease on the Great Barrier Reef and is determined to drill on the Great Barrier Reef. Here we have a National Parliament and members on both sides cj" this National Parliament have declared themselves against drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. Where should the responsibility rest? It is obvious that the Queensland State Parliament does not accept its responsibility to all of the people. The Great Barrier Reef does not belong only to the people of Queensland but to the people in all parts of Australia. Further, it belongs to the nations to the north of us even including Japan, South East Asia and America. As well as being an international responsibility, it is a national and a State responsibility. Yet, by continually refusing to pass this legislation, we leave the Great Barrier Reef and other such areas at the mercy of some parochial State Parliament. 
I represent first the nation of Australia. 
-Whom do you represent? 
-Are the Queenslanders not Australians? Does not the greater contain the lesser? What sort of an attitude is that? How can it be that  Senator Sheil  as a Queenslander should look at Queensland first and then the rest? Perhaps he has not forgotten his football days. Perhaps this is just a football game. It seems to me that the sooner we accept our nationhood and that we are Australians and the sooner we develop a nationalism that is Australian and do not act as Queenslanders, New South Welshmen, Victorians, South Australians, Western Australians, or even Tasmanians the better it will be for Australia. To think otherwise, in my opinion, is a retrogressive step. The vote of this Parliament as expressed in the Senate tonight will be a retrogressive step. I know for a fact, as I look at  Senator Wright,  that in spite of his use of the words 'dominion', 'colony', 'Privy Council' and all the other words to which he gave expression, once he moves away from the shores of Australia he becomes an Australian and not a Tasmanian. 
-That is the truth of it,  Senator. It  is seen in your attitude since you returned from the United Nations. You did not represent Tasmania. You certainly did not represent Queensland. You represented Australia. 
The rejection of this legislation, which the Opposition is about to do, is, shall I say, a rejection of the right of Australia to make decisions in its own right as a nation and not as 6 States thrown together higgledy-piggledy. The strength of Australia, if we work it as the Opposition works it, may be expressed this way: Australia will be as strong as the weakest State. That happens whether what is involved is prices, stock exchanges, mineral exploitation, or the sale of coal or beef. The strength of Australia under the system proposed by the Opposition will depend on the weakest State. Australia will be as strong only as the weakest State because the exploiters and the racketeers, those who want to take a quick advantage, will go to the weakest State. If one wants to register a firm or list a firm with the stock exchange, why should one go to New South Wales which has a reasonably effective Corporate Affairs Commission? One rather would go to Western Australia or to Queensland where the corporate affairs body is so understaffed that in some cases it does not even know when annual reports from companies have been submitted. 
That is the position in which we will continue to find ourselves if we depend on the States to make vital decisions in the national interest or if we are to depend on a group of States, Labor and anti-Labor, with their squabbles and their countersquabbles. If we are to depend on a loose federation of that type, we shall continue to be in trouble and we will be at a disadvantage. The Opposition will reject this legislation. It has rejected other legislation that has come before this House. It will reject the next piece of legislation to be considered by the Senate. When are Opposition senators going to accept their responsibility - 
When will they do that as Australians? 
-At a Joint Sitting? When will a Joint Sitting be? Are you suggesting,  Senator Hall,  that this Senate will again refuse supply? 
-Is it their intention? Surely,  Senator, you  will not support the Opposition. Perhaps the new Senate incumbent from New South Wales will see what is in the best interests of Australia and not support such action. There is now a hint that the Opposition may come to the point of a double dissolution. 
-These Bills that are coming forward are coming forward for the third time. Are you saying,  Senator Missen,  by continually refusing to pass legislation, that you want a double dissolution? 
-Are you saying that there is no advantage in this Bill? Are you prepared to get up,  Senator, and  declare that this Bill is fundamentally wrong and not in the best interests of Australia? 
-The frustrations which honourable senators on the Government side suffer perhaps are expressed from time to time in rather angry outbursts. But let me impress upon those who wish to record what has happened here tonight that what the Opposition is doing is not judging the Bill upon its value or its contents but merely judging it as a means by which it can frustrate the Government and force it if possible to an election. This confrontation is not in the best interests of Australia. If the Opposition is so confident that it can win an election- and I do not think Opposition members are; I have a feeling that things have changed somewhat. I believe that we have moved away from an election this year. This seems to be the feeling. I think that the will of the Liberal Party and its Country Party associates is diminished somewhat. But surely in the political arena or in the political area, another year is not too long to wait? Why is it that the Opposition is not prepared until this Government has run its full term? Why does it seek a short term advantage? Why does the Opposition seek to discredit and to frustrate the Government and to force it to an election? 
We are doing so because we believe that the Bill is a most necessary Bill. I had hoped that, surely, I had made several points. One concerned the Barrier Reef. Another concerned the future of our mineral resources and the consolidation of our mineral position. I would have thought that those points were sufficient to justify the passage of this legislation. After all, it was the Opposition's legislation in the first place. What the Opposition has done has been to disown its former Prime Minister by negating this legislation. The Opposition has not negated the legislation because it believes the legislation is bad; it has negated it merely to frustrate the Government. 
I direct the attention of the Minister representing the Attorney-General to an editorial in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 4 March which appears to indicate that the Trade Practices Act is being used to inhibit public discussion on matters of public interest. I ask him: Does the Trade Practices Act place as sub judice any matter relating to an application by a firm to the Trade Practices Commission? Will he clearly state whether this is desirable? If it is not desirable, what action will be taken to prevent firms from making mischievous applications in order to protect their own interests? 
I wish to speak to the point of order. The honourable senator is doing exactly what I seek to have corrected by my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. In fact I believe  Senator Greenwood  is misusing the Standing Orders to prevent a discussion on a matter of great public interest. I do not believe the Standing Orders were made to inhibit the asking of questions of this sort. For that reason I would say that the Minister representing the Attorney-General should be able to answer such a question and he should take care to see that the answer is a correct and well considered one. 
May I advise  Senator Bonner  that, in a case as serious as the one he has just disclosed, which seems to give fairly firm evidence of a mistrial, he, as a senator of Queensland, had the responsibility to bring the matter to the attention of the State authorities. He should have continued to pursue the case with the State authorities until such time as there was an inquiry into the evidence that he had. What he states is a serious case, but what is even more serious is that the senator obviously knew about this matter in December last year, yet he raises it now on 9 April. It is  Senator Bonner's  responsibility, as much as it is the responsibility of anyone else, as a senator in Queensland- particularly when it concerns a member of his race- to take up the matter and pursue it. 
-The honourable senator knew about this. If the case is as he states and he became simply a collector and deliverer of letters, he let this person down, because if this case had come to any other senator I am prepared to say that he would have followed and searched it through, and confronted the State AttorneyGeneral with it. 
The honourable senator told me a moment ago to keep quiet, but he also invited me to say something and to stop nattering in the background. I am telling him now that, as a senator, when such a serious case was raised, he should have persisted with the State authorities to get this man justice. It is of no use the honourable senator passing the buck. It is obvious from the honourable senator's advice that the last person he approached was the State Attorney-General. Yet he should have been the first person. The honourable senator should have persisted until such time as an inquiry was instituted by the State authorities. Yet he comes here passing the buck. He is endeavouring to pass the buck on to the Minister. I say that he ought to accept the buck for himself. He should take the matter, follow it up and see that this young man gets justice 
I enter this debate a little sooner than I thought I would be needed. I expected  Senator Sheil  to speak at greater length on a matter so important as this, but it seems that there is some endeavour on the part of the Opposition to maneouvre its speakers. I noticed that the list of speakers has been changed and that my name now appears on that list before that of the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange,  Senator Rae.  Be that as it may, I intend to speak as a member of that Committee, knowing the experiences that it had. I intend to speak strongly against any attempt to delay further this legislation which has been necessary since 1970 when that Committee was first formed. Under the chairmanship of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, working with considerable drive it came to the conclusion within 18 months that a national regulatory commission was needed for the stock exchanges. No matter what  Senator Sheil  says, the record shows that the stock exchanges are unable to regulate their affairs. They are unable to do so because they are fragmented State by State. It quickly became apparent to those of us who were members of that Committee and heard the evidence that the securities industry was as strong as the weakest stock exchange and the weakest State. What had been happening- it is still happening- was that the companies established in this Commonwealth were listed on the weakest stock exchange. The main abuses during the boom were by companies which were listed in Western Australia and Queensland, which had the weakest supervisory rules and the weakest establishments and were not in a position to supervise either the prospectuses or the subsequent reports on various new issues. 
What was necessary quickly became apparent in the early months of that Committee. In fact the Committee, in one of its first progress reports, reported that there should be such a regulatory commission. Unfortunately the Committee became bogged down to such an extent that now, 5 years later, the full report is not before the Senate. The most important part of the report, that part upon which we should be depending to judge this legislation, has not been presented to the Senate. It is inconceivable and unacceptable that we should have to wait for so long to have the complete report before us. That is self criticism because I am a member of that Committee. Over the last 2 years it has been evident that the  Chairman  did not have the capacity to use his staff, the material and evidence that had been presented to us and the various recommendations from our staff. He did not have the capacity to draw those matters together and present them to the Committee so that it could complete its report and present it to the Parliament. That is the reason why I am concerned that we now face an amendment moved by the Opposition for this very important Bill to be referred to another committee. Let us accept the view that if the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange had completed its report and its recommendations the most sensible move would have been to refer this Bill to that Committee. I would say that that suggestion would have been acceptable had the Committee facilitated its work and brought down its report; but there has been delay after delay and, even to this moment, the Committee has not presented very important recommendations relating to the legal opinions which would have been of great use to the Senate in considering this matter. 
What does the Opposition propose? Does it now propose that we set up a new Senate select committee with new members to re-investigate the whole of this legislation line by line? Is that the proposition? Does the Opposition state that the new select committee should have the advantage of all the evidence, all the documents and all the papers of the existing Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange? Is it the purpose of the Opposition to wind up the present Securities and Exchange Committee? Is that its purpose, or are we to have 2 select committees operating virtually in the same field? 
I have stated- I stated it in the campaign which preceded the 1 8 May election- that to my mind it was a disgrace that this legislation should have been delayed for so long. I stated that it was a disgrace that the Liberal Party leadership had not made a statement on this matter. I stated also that there seemed to be evidence that the Liberal Party was pulling away from the establishment of a securities and exchange body. I stated then- I tried to make it an election issue- that we could delay no longer, that it was necessary for the Liberal Party to declare itself and that it was necessary for it in its policy statement to declare that it was in favour of and would introduce this legislation. That very important policy statement was never made, in spite of reports that it would be made. Perhaps I stepped a little over the mark in making that statement, but the net result as far as I was concerned was that I- was served with a writ by the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Rae.  That writ is still in force, in spite of my offer to  Senator Rae  that if he felt aggrieved by the statement which I made as part of an election campaign I was prepared - 
I wish to speak to the point of order. 
I know. It is certainly not the intention of a writ to prevent a senator fulfilling his duties in this place. For the last year 
I have been patient in this place. I have not made a statement which might have indicated some further malice towards  Senator Rae.  I would have expected the Senate or the Committee itself to have taken notice of a standing order - 
I know I have more important things to say, but the point of order was raised. The Senate should have taken notice of standing order 443 which states: 
The Senate will interfere to prevent the prosecution of any quarrel between Senators, arising out of Debates or Proceedings of the Senate or of any Committee thereof. 
I am saying that up until this moment I have not raised the matter. Because this legislation is before the Senate surely I am not denied the right to explain how I have been limited in expressing my opinion on this sort of legislation. Surely this writ which the  Chairman  of the Committee has issued against me and which concerns matters arising out of the Committee should not limit my speaking about the position of the Committee. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in this week's issue of the 'Bulletin' reflecting on the qualifications of the staff of a former Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Mr Justice  Murphy? Does the Minister consider this article to be another instalment in the campaign which this magazine is conducting against  His  Honour? Does the Minister know the names and qualifications of  Mr Justice  Murphy's staff? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yes. I wish to make a personal explanation and to take up the last phrase used by  Senator Rae  when he said that it was a pity that I sought the occasion last night to introduce my personal problems into this place. It is not a personal problem; it is a problem which concerns the Senate. I have waited patiently to come to some arrangement with  Senator Rae  which may remove the need for the Senate to intervene. I have spoken to the  President  in private and I have spoken to the members of the staff of the Senate concerning this matter. I have been patient about a situation in which the  chairman  of a committee re-elected to that committee and a member of that committee - 
It is a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I do not want to inhibit you at all,  Senator Georges,  but under the Standing Orders you may make an explanation only as to where you claim to have been misrepresented, and you cannot debate the subject. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  respectfully, I am not debating the subject.  Senator Rae  - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder! I shall read for you and for the benefit of the Senate, in support of what I have been saying, the relevant standing order. Standing order 410 reads: 
A senator who has spoken to the Question may again be heard, to explain himself in regard to some material pan of his speech which has been misquoted or misunderstood, but shall not introduce any new matter, or interrupt any  Senator in  possession of the Chair, and no debatable matter shall be brought forward or debate arising upon such explanation. 
If you obey standing order 410 you will get the protection of the Chair. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  you are then preventing me from making a personal explanation in relation to a misunderstanding which arises from the fact that  Senator Rae  said that last night I raised a personal matter. I am saying that it is not a personal matter and that therefore a misunderstanding has been caused by what  Senator Rae  said in his concluding remarks. For that reason, in my own interests, it is necessary for me to make clear that the matter I raised was not a personal one. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  You have answered that matter.  Senator Rae  has said that you had a personal problem. You have said that that is not correct. So that gets rid of that one. What is your next point? 
It does not quite get rid of it, but I shall go to the next point.  Senator Rae  's misrepresentation seems to indicate that I was referring to the transcript of evidence when I stated that an instruction had gone to the staff to strike out the word  'Chairman'  and put in its place  'Senator Rae'.  When I said that I was referring to those portions of evidence lifted from the transcript into the report. As one goes through the report one sees that there is no question that where  'Chairman'  appears in the transcript  'Senator Rae'  appears in the report. No one has the right to alter the transcript. When one quotes from the transcript one must quote it as it appears. What has happened here is that because of an instruction to which  Senator Rae  has admitted the word  'Chairman'  has been taken out and  'Senator Rae'  has been inserted in practically every - 
The example is the opposite. If one should look at those parts of the transcript when  Senator Sim  was in the chair one would find that he is referred to as the  Chairman.  It is fairly clear to me, and it must be made clear to the Senate, that an instruction was given to alter the transcript. Therefore the comment I made last night concerning  Senator Rae  was justified. 
I would also indicate something to  Senator Rae  in regard to my attendance at the Committee's meetings. My point is that there is a rule somewhere which prohibits a senator- it has been breached here many times- from indicating some other honourable senator's absence from this place, and I take it that the same rule would bind  Senator Rae  and prevent him from revealing just what is the record of a member's attendance at that Committee. The record of attendance is a private document of the Committee, and  Senator Rae  had no right, firstly, to make that statement to the Press some time ago and, secondly, he has no right to make that statement here because he is using a private document from the minutes of the Committee. 
-Nevertheless, I did not raise it;  Senator Rae  raised it here. I have made no comment on the matter previous to this.  Senator Rae  was entitled to his own defence and he is entitled to say what he likes, and I am entitled to defend myself as well. I have been misrepresented in another aspect. It is quite incorrect for  Senator Rae  to say that I was not in contact with the work of the Committee. I would like to make it clear- other members of the Committee would support me if they were pressed to do so- that for many months during the last period of the Committee's meetings it was a waste of time to attend those meetings because the  Chairman  did not go to them properly prepared. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! The allegation,  Senator Georges,  was that you were not present. Either you refute that statement or you agree with it, but you will not be able to debate the matter. 
Well, I refute that statement which flows - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTWhat is your next point? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  are you endeavouring to limit my ability - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- No, I am trying to keep to the Standing Orders as I read them and as I have read them out to you. 
I want to correct a misrepresentation that I was not properly informed because I was not present at the Committee's meetings. That is what  Senator Rae  says. But I was properly informed. In fact, I received the material - 
-Be quiet. One of the important things which indicates that I was kept fairly close to what was going on in the Committee is the fact that I received a note which reads: 
In retrospect it appears to me that the Committee, despite the inevitable pressures, stuck pretty well to the goal of doing a good job in the national interest for the 3½ years . . . The disappointment is that it appears to have been diverted by short term political factors in the matter of its recommendations and publication of other matter. I only wish you had been around more in meetings of recent months. 
That rather proves in some way what  Senator Rae  has been saying; it is a criticism against me. The note goes on: 
The price of a well regulated securities market is eternal political vigilance. 
That note was addressed to me by the legal adviser to the Committee, Professor Harding. In fairness to me and in explanation of my position, and in spite of what  Senator Rae  is endeavouring to do to me, let me say that I was kept well informed by the staff as to what was going on in the Committee. What I have said points to the fact that  Senator Rae  was not carrying out his function as  Chairman  correctly and adequately so that the report of the Committee could have been presented to the Parliament at least 6 months before it was. 
-I bring up the third progress report on all aspects of broadcasting and television, including the Australian content of television programs, from the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to move a motion for the Senate to take note of the report. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I take much pleasure in presenting the third progress report on all aspects of broadcasting and television from the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. This reference was originally given to the Committee nearly four years ago, in August 1971. The scope of the subject is, of course, considerable. From the beginning the Committee decided that the best way to approach the topic would be to bring down progress reports at regular intervals. The first progress report was presented in October 1972, and the second in August 1973. Since the advent of the Labor Government late in 1972, the rate at which changes have occurred in this field has quickened considerably and presented one difficulty. Moreover the Committee was inactive for a large part of 1974 because of the double dissolution. In spite of these difficulties, however, the Committee has produced this report which it hopes will provide guidance and assistance to those involved in broadcasting and television in 
Australia, and will be a valuable contribution to public debate on the subject. 
I will not dwell in detail on the contents of the report; it speaks for itself. But let me just briefly summarise the issues which are raised. The report begins by stressing the importance of the effects which technological advance may have in the future on communications. It then discusses the new era in radio which is emerging in Australia, and suggests a systematic allocation policy concerning the introduction of new AM and FM services. It calls for regular national inquiries into this important topic. It concludes that commercial operators should be permitted to take part in FM broadcasting. It encourages the propagation of public broadcasting services, discusses some of the problems which may arise from these new stations, and concludes that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is the most suitable body to oversee them. Finally, it recommends that the allocation of services from the electromagnetic spectrum should no longer rest with the Postmaster-General's Department and that the joint production of television programs with overseas countries should be encouraged. 
The Committee elected me to be  Chairman  only 2 months ago. It would therefore be remiss of me not to thank the previous  Chairman, Senator James  McClelland, for the great contribution which he made to the effective running of the Committee, and to this inquiry. I would also like to pay tribute to his predecessor,  Senator Gordon  Davidson. I would also like to pay a tribute to the work of the staff of the Committee, and to  Dr Geoffrey  Evans, who was the secretary of the Committee but who has now left us to join the staff of one of the Ministers. I would also like to give credit to the acting secretary,  Mr T.  Mackey, for the production of this report and take the opportunity also of welcoming the new secretary to the Committee,  Mr Charles  Edwards. Finally, I would like to convey my sincere appreciation to my fellow members of the Committee who have worked so conscientiously on this inquiry. The harmonious and non-partisan atmosphere in which the Committee operates reflects credit on them all. 
I admit that I am offended by what  Senator Greenwood  had to say, because it reminds me of the many times I made representations on behalf of people who for many years were refused naturalisation. Those refusals were on political grounds and no reason was given. Therefore, it seems strange to me that  Senator Greenwood  should come here now and take up the very position that we took up for so many years. I say to  Senator Greenwood  that if the man he mentioned has been refused citizenship on political grounds, as he said, then the case ought to be reviewed and I will help him review it. But the honourable senator must keep in mind the number of times that good citizens in this countrythey are good citizens now and were good citizens previously although they were not naturalised- were hurt, their families were hurt and their communities were affronted. If what  Senator Greenwood  said is to be the new attitude of the Opposition, we must welcome his speech. Nevertheless, I must go back to the fact that it was a little hard to take his speech, considering the many hundreds of applications that were refused by the Opposition when it was in Government. 
The case he presented was presented as one that conflicts with Labor Party policy and needs to be researched further. I assure  Senator Greenwood  that I will approach the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to test whether what the honourable senator said is true. As  Senator James  McClelland has said, one comes up against one or two cases which are unsupportable. They are unsupportable because the grounds for refusal of naturalisation are associated not with politics but with some other reason. 
-For instance, I remember not proceeding with a case for naturalisation when I was informed unofficially and confidentially- I do not doubt that  Senator Greenwood  would be so informed if he sought reasons, not in this case but in others- that the person concerned was a proven Nazi collaborator; that he had been before a court and had been convicted of that offence. Somehow, he got through the screen. In that case, I did not proceed with my support for his application for naturalisation. He had to search elsewhere for support. As far as I am concerned, those grounds are not political ones. There are other grounds. There may be in this case, and in other cases in which the claims have been rejected, grounds other than political grounds. Generally speaking, the senator or member who makes an approach is confidentially informed that there may be another reasons for rejection. The refusal to reveal the reason, it must be obvious to the honourable senator, is because there is no reason that the person concerned should be further prejudiced and the information therefore remains confidential. There could be an argument, as I think  Senator Mulvihill  pointed out, that the person concerned should have the right to appeal and he should perhaps receive that information in confidence. But that is a matter for the person concerned and a matter for appeal. 
The system being as it is, if the Opposition, when it comes back into government, takes a guide from  Senator Greenwood,  something useful may come out of his stand today. 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee F relating to the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1974-75 together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I believe that  Senator Wright  has broken the spirit of the debate. I thought he could have referred to the cases without naming people in particular. He cleared himself of some rumour that he may have benefitted from briefs from the Australian Legal Aid Office, but he went on to implicate 2 people, the  President  of the Senate and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  We know that for quite some time there have been all sorts of gossip and rumours in the corridors of this House. Some of those rumours and some of that gossip got very close to intimidation of honourable senators with a view to influencing them either to back off this proposition or perhaps to vote in a way contrary to the spirit of this motion and amendment. Let us be clear. Both sides of the Senate have great sympathy for  Senator Webster  in the position in which he has found himself. The motion moved by the Government and the amendment moved to it by the Opposition show very favourable support for  Senator Webster's  position and for the referral of his case to the High Court. 
No one in this Parliament put down information concerning  Senator Webster.  The person who did so was one who came before the Joint Committee on the Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament. Prior to giving the information or evidence to that Committee the person gave the information to a journalist and the newspaper concerned published those allegations, much to the distress of  Senator Webster  and much to the distress of other honourable senators. The information was not given from this place; let us make that clear. It has been said that if  Senator Webster  is in breach of the Constitution so are many others. That is not really a good defence. It is based on information which could be laid against any honourable senator and possibly may be laid against other honourable senators or members of the House of Representatives, and may lead to the same sort of course that has been followed in  Senator Webster's  case. I rise to speak because  Senator Wright  cleared himself of a rumour. Let me clear myself of a rumour. I was a director of a company set up by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs called Applied Ecology Pty Ltd. 
It is confessional hour, and it needs to be. I was approached in the corridor and told, in effect: 'If  Senator Webster  is gone so are you'. That is a situation that other honourable senators have also faced. The whole thing has tended to become untidy. It possibly would not have become untidy if the example of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt),  the Leader of the Opposition in Senate  (Senator Withers)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  had been followed. Since people have been named, and since  Senator Wright  has cleared himself, let me put my own case. I was made a director of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd by the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Gordon  Bryant, at a time when there seemed to be some disputation as to the manner in which Government moneys were expended. Myself and another member of Parliament,  Mr Ray  Thorburn, were appointed as directors. It was clear at the time- we sought advice on this-that we were to receive no fees and no daily expenses, but we were entitled to any expenses which we incurred in carrying out the work of the company. This position is clearly stated in a list of expenses which I obtained from Applied Ecology Pty Ltd after the accusation was made. After detailing the expenses the document states: 

 Senator Georges was not paid a travelling allowance at any time during his appointment as a Director of the Company, and the above amounts represent reimbursements of actual travelling expenses paid by him while on Company business. Members of the Board of Directors who are Politicians, Australian Government Public Servants, or persons employed by other Australian Government instrumentalities are not paid Directors fees or travelling allowances. Other Directors are paid the fee appropriate to Australian Government consultants namely, $33 per session and the travelling allowances applicable to Second Division Australian Government Public Servants namely, $3 1 .50 per day. 
Once an accusation is made the accusation must go before someone. That is why I support this judicial committee of inquiry which is proposed. I most certainly will present my own case to that committee. 
Let me make another point to the Senate. For quite some time know I have been aware that an honourable senator on the Opposition side of the chamber, other than  Senator Webster,  may be in breach of the Constitution, and yet I have never at any time endeavoured to use that information. Let us make the position perfectly clear: Not only honourable senators- this is why  Senator Webster  must have some sympathy- but also members of the other place have entered into agreements with a Government department to carry out certain services under certain conditions and have been paid certain fees. To me that is a breach equally as culpable as that of  Senator Webster.  No charge has been laid against any one of those people by anyone. Until such a charge is laid nothing can proceed in this fashion. 
I am not coming into that particular area. I think that section of the Constitution will be looked at. I think the Government has that in hand and will seek to amend the Constitution to prevent such a thing from happening. Let me try to convince  Senator Webster  and all other honourable senators that the matter must be clarified. The procedure we are taking is the only way in which it can be clarified. The Parliament intends to support  Senator Webster,  not only financially but also with the fullest sympathy and understanding. For that reason I think it is not right that any honourable senator should rise and actually name any other person- other than himself if he wants to make an explanation- who he may think is in some way in technical breach of the Constitution. I leave it at that. 
I wish to speak briefly to the amendment moved by  Senator Hall  because  Senator Hall,  together with others, impugned the reputation of the Joint Committee on the Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament of which I am a member. Let me make it clear to the Senate that because of the evidence coming before the Committee from a variety of persons the proposition was put by members of the Committee including, I believe,  Senator Webster,  that there was no need for a register because the Constitution had certain provisions. We kept on hammering the point that there was no need for a register because there was no case of a breach of this sort; there was no conflict; nothing had ever been proven against a federal member; the Constitution provided a sufficient safeguard. In fact, the Committee threw out the challenge. The challenge was accepted in an extraordinary way. The charge was not against another member of Parliament. If it had been we could have ruled the matter out of order and said that it was not within our terms of reference. The example related to a member of the Committee and it was brought by 2 people. 
One of the persons was a man named, I think, P. C. Brown. He sent a letter to the Committee saying that he wished to give evidence before it because he believed not only that a member of the Committee was in breach of the Constitution but also- and this has been overlooked- that every member of the Parliament was in breach of the Constitution because he or she accepted the two-third contribution that the Government paid by way of retiring allowance. That was  Mr Brown's  submission. I would have thought that the second part of  Mr Brown's  submission would have appeared in the evidence that was presented to the Senate. Nevertheless, the Committee threw out the challenge. The Committee was then given evidence. We could not pull away from the evidence that was given before the Committee. That evidence, as it is shown in the transcript, was in response to the challenge.  Mr Hills  had already appeared before the Committee at a previous stage and the question was put to him about the Constitution. He subsequently came before the Committee. At the same time as  Mr Brown  wrote to the Committee in order to give evidence he also gave information to  Mr Hills.  That is the reason why the information appeared in the Age' newspaper. In fairness to the 'Age', it did not go out searching for this case against  Senator Webster.  It acted on information given by  Mr Brown  who also wrote to the Committee in order to give evidence. 
-The Committee could not pull away from the evidence. In fairness to  Mr Hills-  I do not know about  Mr Brown-  he was saying that if there had been a register and  Senator Webster  had disclosed his interests in the J. J. Webster company, that disclosure in fact would have been a defence in the case that he will have to face in the High Court. I am not a lawyer, but it seems to me that what  Mr Hills  is putting- in fairness to him- was: Here is an example which concerns a member of the Committee, and if the register had been operative the matter would not have arisen. 
Another person who gave evidence before the Committee in the same terms was a lecturer in law from the Queensland University. He said that many members of Parliament could be in conflict with the Constitution and disclosure by register would assist. It is quite unfair to be critical in any way of the Committee because the Committee did its best to keep within its terms of reference. Immediately it became clear that there  was a charge against one of the members of the Committee the Committee referred the matter to the Senate. 
The charge was not so much in blatant terms.  Mr Hills  said that he believed  Senator Webster  was unconsciously, unwittingly in breach of the Constitution. That was the case  Mr Hills  was putting. It went no further than that. We asked  Mr Hills  to come back before the Committee to explain his references in an article which gave examples of X, Y and Z. He gave examples of why there needed to be a register, examples of conflicts in regard to the pecuniary interests of members of Parliament. I believe 3 other cases were given. One case concerned Tasmania. I recall 2 cases, one concerning  Senator Wood,  which has no relevance, and one concerning former  Senator Murphy.  I think some reference was made to the Morosi Affair. 
The Committee was forced into a position where it could not refuse to take the evidence in public. We threw out a challenge and there was a response to it. Four cases were brought before us, one of which concerned  Senator Webster.  I make it clear to  Senator Hall  that there is no attempt to make a scapegoat of anyone. There is not the slightest intention to do so. In Party terms we will gain no advantage from  Senator Webster's  disadvantage. In fact if we look at what is likely to happen it would be greatly to our disadvantage if  Senator Webster's  position in the Senate were declared invalid. Let us cut out these implications that are being made by  Senator Hall  and others that  Senator Webster  was a scapegoat. He is unfortunate to find himself in this position. There is a possibility that others, in the course of time, may find themselves in the same unfortunate situation. We can take events only as they come. 
The Committee is considering the Bill in the same groupings and order as applied in the Estimates Committees. The Committee has already passed the groups of departments covered by Estimates Committees A to E. The votes for the group of departments covered by Estimates Committee F are now before the Committee. 
Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Consideration resumed. 
Australia can line up in a queue and expect to be put on a company dole I would say that that conclusion is not to be drawn from what we have done. The justification for what we have done was that in the localities where these companies found themselves in special difficulties there were no alternatives of employment. 
We have had applications for assistance under the various structural adjustment schemes which the Government has espoused in other areas. These have been rejected because they do not meet the special criteria that we have set for special assistance to companies in difficulty. Might I add for the benefit of those who accuse us of having embarked upon this program merely to keep our members in office and to indulge in the old respectable National Country Party practice of pork-barrelling that 69.2 per cent of all grants under what is known as the SANMA' scheme- Special Assistance to NonMetropolitan Areas- have been made to companies in electorates which are not held by members of the Government. The balance of 3 1 per cent has been granted to companies in electorates which are held by members of the Government. So much for the proposition that the rationale of this scheme is to keep Labor Party members in office. 
We have not pleased the economic rationalists. We have offended some of the gurus. We certainly have not delighted the 'Australian Financial Review'. But on balance, looking at the question of what we should do in a situation such as this, we decided to make this sort of special grant. Let us consider this in terms of what it costs the community. I know that this begs the question of who is responsible for what sort of state the economy is in. I know that honourable senators opposite think that if it does not rain in the areas which need rain, it is the fault of the Government. If there is a flood or a cyclone, the Government is responsible for it. But looking at it rationally what should we do when economic misfortune hits a certain community? 
It has been computed that if we had not done what we did for the APPM which primarily affected the town of Burnie, if instead of going in for the form of income maintenance that we adopted, we had allowed the people concerned to be thrown out of work, we would have expended more in social security payments than we have expended in helping to keep this company in being. We do not apologise. We know that it is a rare and rather extraordinary way of providing a special social program, but we believe it can be justified on economic grounds and especially that it can be justified on humanitarian grounds. 
I respect every comment made by  Senator Cotton  in these matters. I know that his criticism is made in an honest spirit of economic criticism, but I find quite curious the silence of all the Tasmania senators on the matter of assistance to special Tasmania industries. I would like to hear  Senator Wright  stand up as a matter of principle and denounce this matter, knowing it would be reported in the Hobart 'Mercury '. I would like to hear the same comments from principled people like  Senator Rae, Senator Marriott  and other representatives of Tasmania. Let us hear from them before this Government is attacked on the grounds of economic irrationality. 
-In his attempt to pursue a particular person, in this case the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns), Senator Hall  has led himself into grave error.  His  determination not to understand what happened in the debate when the Senate set up the Judicial Committee of Inquiry is such that it rather clouds and diminishes his record in this place. I am astounded that a man of such ability and intelligence should become a victim of such a manoeuvre. He has attacked the Joint Committee on the Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament, which has been carrying out its duties with all care to ensure that every person who comes before it is properly heard. The Committee has done its best to hear evidence in accordance with its terms of reference which were, briefly, to inquire into the desirability of setting up a register of the pecuniary interests of members of Parliament. During the inquiry, when the Committee demanded evidence of a nature which would show that certain sections of the Constitution were not sufficient to protect the integrity of members, quite by accident-  Senator Hall  knows that it was by accident- the Committee was faced with evidence brought before it which involved  Senator Webster.  The matter was immediately referred to the Senate, as the 
Committee was required to do under the Standing Orders. The evidence was then dealt with by the Senate and a certain course taken. To ensure that  Senator Webster  was not alone in having to go to the High Court and have his position in this place tested, it was decided by the Senate-  Senator Hall  should not deny this, nor should he endeavour to confuse it- that a Judicial Committee should be set up to hear any other evidence of a similar nature which might disqualify a senator. The place for  Senator Hall  to take the evidence that he has is that Judicial Committee and no other place. 
Let me inform  Senator Hall  that the Committee has sought and been granted additional time in which to sit for the purpose of further carrying out its work in view of revelations which have been made.  Senator Hall  is not the first person to make an approach to the Committee to place evidence before it.  Senator Webster  himself approached the Committee and said that he wanted to put evidence before it concerning 1 7 other members of Parliament. So  Senator Hall  is not the first;  Senator Webster  himself endeavoured to bring forward evidence which he felt would place 17 other members of this Parliament in a position similar to his own. The Committee considered that evidence and, in view of the fact that the Senate had set up the Judicial Committee, it considered that the evidence should be placed before that Committee, in line with the decision of the Senate.  Senator Hall  ought to go to that Judicial Committee and to no other place.  His  charge against the Pecuniary Interests Committee that it did not respond to his request does not seem to tally with the message I have received from the Secretary of the Committee indicating that he did not receive the phone call to which  Senator Steele  Hall refers. In fact, the message that  Senator Hall  said he received in return and the discourtesy which he claims was shown to him was unknown to the Secretary of the Committee. That seems to me to fit in with what the situation would be. No Committee of this Senate would deny a courtesy to any senators in a matter of correspondence and, to my knowledge, this Committee could not possibly have advised that no further evidence was to be heard. The Committee has not yet considered  Senator Hall's  letter. It will be considered and it is possible that the same advice that was given to  Senator Webster  will be given to  Senator Steele  Hall, and rightly so. When  Senator Hall  stands in this place and insults the Committee, when he insults his fellow senators, he diminishes himself and places in jeopardy the very case he wants to put tonight. 
If he has determined that there are other members of Parliament who are in breach of the Constitution, then he should search out other members as well as  Dr Cairns,  but it seems that in order to support his case he is now engaged in a vendetta against  Dr Cairns.  When I spoke previously in the Senate I said that I felt there were several other members who were more in breach of the Constitution than the member in the case  Senator Hall  has presented, but the place for me to put that view, when I so desire, will be before the Judicial Committee, and justly so. I believe, with  Senator Steele  Hall, that  Senator Webster  should not stand alone, but the procedures will have to be followed. It is quite possible that  Senator Webster  will not stand alone. Neither  Senator Steele  Hall nor anyone else in this place would deny that the Committee did as much as it possibly could to assist  Senator Webster  in his predicament, and I believe it is disgraceful that  Senator Steele  Hall has raised this matter in this way. For that reason, in order that this matter can be fully discussed and the Pecuniary Interests Committee can meet in the meantime to discuss the charge made against it by  Senator Steele  Hall tonight, I propose to move that the debate be adjourned. 
I leave it in the hands of the Leader of the House  (Senator Wriedt), Mr President. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wriedt)  adjourned. 

 - Senator, can you identify the line to which you are referring? 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  raised the question of cyclone Tracy and the possibility of another cyclone occurring. That is a very weak argument. I am quite certain that the Government is competent enough to be able to present a special Appropiration Bill should such a contingency arise. I support the concern expressed by the Opposition. 
I shall read the message from the House of Representatives to the  President.  It is as follows: 
The House of Representatives returns to the Senate the Bill intituled 'A Bill for an Act relating to the Australian Public Service', and acquaints the Senate that the House of Representatives has disagreed to the amendments made by the Senate, for the Reasons shown in the annexed Schedule. 
The House of Representatives desires the reconsideration by the Senate of the Bill in respect of the said amendments. 
GORDON SCHOLES Speaker 
House of Representatives, Canberra, 16 April 1975 
Motion (by  Senator Willesee)  proposed: 
That the Committee does not insist on the amendments of the Senate to which the House of Representatives has disagreed. 
An amendment moved by  Senator Durack  to leave out sub-clause 2 and insert another sub-clause has already been agreed to. When the Committee reported last night the Postmaster-General was seeking a further amendment to clause 2.I now ask the Minister whether he seeks to proceed further with that amendment as it would seem to be embraced by  Senator Durack  's amendment already agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 16. 
Without limiting the generality of sub-section (2), the Commission may, for purposes connected with the construction, replacement, repair, maintenance or renewal of a telecommunications installation- 
enter upon, and occupy, any land; and 
on land so occupied, do any act specified in subsection (4). 
The Commission shall not, in the exercise of its powers under sub-section ( 1 )- 
alter the position of a pipe, being a main, sewer or drain; or 
alter the position of any other pipe for the supply of water or gas or a cable for the supply of electricity unless the Commission has given notice, in writing, of its intention to do so the authority having the care and management of the pipe or cable. 
The Commission shall, in the exercise of its powers under sub-section ( 1 ), ensure that a line erected above the surface of a road, bridge, vehicular path or water is erected in such a manner as to allow for the reasonable passage of persons and vehicles on the road, bridge or path or of vessels over the water. 
The Commission may demolish or destroy on, or remove from, any land occupied by it, any plant, machinery, equipment, goods, workshop, shed, building or road constucted, built, placed or erected by it on the land. 
10) Subject to sub-sections (5) and (7), before the Commission exercises any of its powers under this section in relation to land, the Commission shall take all reasonable steps to notify the owner and occupier of the land of its intention to enter upon the land and of the purpose for which it intends to enter upon the land. 

 - Mr Acting President, as I was in the Chair while you were speaking I was at a disadvantage and could not respond. However, I would like to come to the defence of the Distribution Commissioners in Queensland.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you inferred that an inconsistency on the part of  Mr Weise-  one of the Commissionerswas revealed because in 1968 he recommended one thing and in this Bill he has recommended the opposite. That is quite untrue. Before I show  Senator Wood  how untrue it is I should say to him that the reflection upon the integrity of the Commissioners is something one would not expect from a senator of such longstanding. It was quite unfair to the Commissioners. Perhaps at the time I should have attracted  Senator Wood's  attention to the fact that perhaps he was being a little unfair and perhaps unparliamentary. The Commissioners in Queensland have come down with a redistribution within the guidelines that were given to them which is extremely fair and not to the disadvantage of any party, even accepting that Maranoa or Kennedy would be lost in the merging of seats. 
To any political realist the redistribution in Queensland would indicate that the National Country Party could gain rather than lose a seat. The redistribution in Queensland will possibly indicate that the Liberal Party would also gain, not lose a seat. A political realist would accept that the Australian Labor Party does not come out very well from this redistribution. Therefore it is grossly unfair to infer that one of the Commissioners was got at, which is what 1 think  Senator Wood  inferred quite unfairly, quite unjustly and not in accordance with the facts. If I remember rightly, in 1 968 a minority report recommended the formation of what we would term 'the great western seat' of Queensland. The person who was responsible for the minority recommendation was the person whom  Senator Wood  has denigrated. It was  Mr Weise.  So he has not been inconsistent. He has been very consistent in recommending by way of a minority report last year that there should be a great western seat and in recommending in this report exactly the same thing, which is a recommendation of all the Commissioners. The Commissioners throughout Australia have approached their job in a very judicial manner. They have shown no favour. I think that, especially in Queensland, one cannot question their judgment. There has been no political bias. 
I should like to take some time to dispute the constant National Country Party reiteration that people only partly count. When dealing with the democratic system the vote of each person is measured equally. The area of the electorate which a member represents should not be taken into account. The facilities provided to the representative of an electorate that may be great in size are another matter and one that can be easily adjusted. If we move away from the principle of one vote one value, as the Country Party has suggested, we will fall back into the errors of the pocket borough system that once existed in the United Kingdom and that exists in Queensland at the present time. 
I am also against the proposition that because the area of an electorate is large the vote of each person in it should be weighted against that of the city dweller. As senators we have the largest electorates in the system, if I may put it that way. I know that the responsibility I have as a senatorI hope that it is shared equally by the other 9 senators from Queensland- is to represent an area that stretches from Brisbane right into the 
Torres Strait, which is a distance of 1500 miles from north to south, and that goes west to Mount Isa and Cunnamulla. In order to represent such an area one has to travel a considerable distance. No one questions that our area of representation is great, but we cover it. Ten senators are required to represent the whole of Queensland. My colleagues from Queensland and I make no complaint about that. That is our task. We could complain. We could point to Tasmania and say that Tasmania has 10 senators although a person could drive across Tasmania in a day and that their load correspondingly to ours is much less, but we do not complain. We have accepted the responsibility of representing Queensland. The areas of Queensland and Tasmania are different and the populations are different; nevertheless all of us go about our tasks as we are required. 
To my mind the Queensland redistribution proposals should have been accepted by all parties without question. I cannot understand why the Liberal Party of Australia has taken a short term view of this matter. The long term result of the rejection of these proposals will be the strengthening of the Liberal Party's rival. The supporters of the Liberal Party should make no mistake about that. The new arrival is a rival that will enter into their area of responsibility electorally. The new National Country Party of Australia as such is no longer a country Party. The new National Country Party is a party that has set itself up to represent the country people, and at the same time demands that it ought to have the right to represent also the city people. It is an entirely new Party and, as such, is a Party that will come into direct competition with the Liberal Party. I make the point, in spite of what  Senator Wood  has said, that it would be in the long term interests of the Liberal Party to accept this redistribution because it would be to its advantage to do so. It is certainly not a redistribution that, as a member of the Austraiian Labor Party, I am very happy about, but I accept, as all other honourable senators should accept, the judgment of the Distribution Commissioners in Queensland and do not criticise them. In fact I support them. I should say that they have done an exceptionally fair job, even though one could complain about what will be the electoral result as far as the Party I represent is concerned. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  I call  Senator Willesee. 
-The remarks of  Senator Steele  Hall- as he prefers to be named- force me into this debate, even though it has been the practice of the Government, in order to expedite legislation, to limit the number of its speakers in support of Bills which are not opposed by the Opposition. This Bill is intended, in spite of what  Senator Steele  Hall says, to provide a facility by which trade union members, who are coming up through the ranks of their organisation and who are coming up through a particular industry, can be trained. When they are appointed as delegates, organisers or secretaries they can be trained in the methods which will make them far better representatives and people who are better equipped to put a case before the tribunals that have been set up to decide upon the industrial conditions of the workers of this nation. Yet  Senator Steele  Hall attempts here to denigrate this provision. (Quorum formed) I thank  Senator Marriott  for the calling of the quorum. Only 2 Liberals were in the chamber and prepared to listen to me. I notice that since  Senator Marriott  called the quorum one more has come in. Actually,  Senator Marriott  has been guilty of using the device which the Opposition has been using recently, namely, calling quorums - 
I raised a point of order when I thought that - 
-No. I point out to  Senator Marriott  that the point of order which I raised referred to - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  There is no substance in the point of order. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  The Opposition is now using the device of calling quorums, but at the same time as it is calling quorums its members are staying out of the chamber. That has to be made fairly clear. We are aware of what the Opposition is up to. Nevertheless let me get back to the Bill we are discussing, which is the Trade Union Training Authority Bill. I have risen in this debate because 1 take strong objection to  Senator Hall's  speech. Before I was interrupted I was speaking in support of the proposition to train men who, by the very nature of industry, when they are appointed as delegates, organisers or secretaries have no basic training, although they use their native wit and they do that successfully. However, they have not had any basic training in general management or organisation, but they survive despite this. The Bill will give them the facility and will provide the time and the finance for them to obtain these skills. 
Surely it is evident that the Opposition does not really object to this proposition in the same terms in which  Senator Hall  objects.  Senator Hall  in his paranoia has sought to give to the objects of the Bill some sinister motive, but the sinister motive exists only in his mind and is a development of that attitude he has taken against unions almost without pause in the State of South Australia when he was Premier and since that time. It is quite unfair of him to attack the trade union movement, which is a responsible movement, in the way in which he has done. Admittedly the trade union movement believes that it has a responsibility to its membership beyond its industrial provisions, that it has a moral responsibility to its membership, to society and to the environment in which the trade union movement works. 
The denigration of which  Senator Hall  has been guilty should be rejected in the strongest terms, and I intend to do that. However, before I do so I also make the point that trade union training and this college will give not only skills to trade union members but will also give them some standing. For too long trade union officials have been carrying out an onerous duty to the benefit not only of their members but also to the entire community and they have received very little in return. As  Senator Button  said earlier, the demands on a trade union official are varied and complex, and for meeting them he receives very little return. 
It is to be hoped that, as a result of the training to be provided, there will be a new recognition of the standing of trade union officials and organisers. At present a trade union organiser for a job that can extend from Monday to Sunday, and into the early hours of the morning if he belongs to a union engaged in shift work, receives in comparison, even with his members, a pittance in return for his services. For that pittance he is required in many cases to be an advocate before a court and to argue a very skilled case for which a member of the legal profession would probably charge between $300 and $400 a day. The magistrates before whom they appear also receive a substantial salary, yet the organiser, who is basically untrained because he probably entered the industry as a workman or perhaps as an apprentice, is required to train himself to become an advocate in the interests of his membership and of the community, and to date he has not been recognised and he has been considerably underpaid. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. (Quorum formed) 
I notice that the call for a quorum did not in any way lead to a response from Liberal senators opposite. I noted that a few of them were hesitating at the door and not entering the chamber. Be that as it may, let me continue with the remarks that I was making before the sitting was suspended. The Bill before the House is the Trade Union Training Authority Bill 1975. We need to remind the Senate of the importance of this Bill. It is not a major Bill but it is important to the members of the trade union movement which all speakers have recognised in some way or other during the course of this debate.  Senator Steele  Hall said that it was the most powerful movement in Australia, so powerful that it controlled government. We can put that remark down to his paranoia. The trade union movement is a well established and substantial organisation. It is by its very nature a responsible organisation and should be accepted as such. 
I know that  Senator Steele  Hall perhaps chose to use this Bill as a means by which he could express his views, extravagant as they are. But the views that he expressed must be accepted as coming from a person whose reputation has been one of continual and unreasonable opposition to the trade union movement based upon a lack of understanding of the trade union movement. No doubt he will be supported in this view by  Senator Greenwood  who, I think, is seeking an opportunity to speak on this matter.  Senator Wright  also chose the opportunity to speak at length on the principles of the trade union movement. In his speech he moved from 1 830 to 1 900 and then to 1970 and in a rather backhanded way he did give some credit to the trade union movement for improving the conditions of the workers. I think he referred to the sum of 2% pence being paid for a day's labour in 1 830 and even he was prepared to admit that there were some improvements in 1975 and that the trade union movement, the organised workers movement, the organised labour movement, was responsible for the improvement in the conditions of the workers from which he himself benefits today. 
Honourable senators must be reminded that the improvement in the conditions of the workers of this country, those who apply their skills, flows on to us all. There is no doubt that in an enlightened society we must be endeavouring to improve the conditions of those people from which we all benefit by way of substantial flow-ons. In the kind of system in which we live a flow-on to workers also means a percentage flow-on to the rest of the community. My attention is directed by my colleagues to the fact that the Opposition has now reduced its numbers on the Opposition benches in order to call, or perhaps be able to call, another quorum. 
It is a bad attempt to frustrate the work of the Senate. But I must return to the Bill and indicate that the Government is giving an opportunity to those who work on behalf of the trade union movement or within the trade union movement to improve their skills. This opportunity will enable a shop steward, whether he be a boilermaker or she be an airline hostess, to participate in a course which may extend over a period of two weeks or 10 weeks and perhaps at a later stage even 12 months. It will give such people an opportunity to participate in the work of the college which is to be built at Wodonga and which will serve this trade union training program. It will give them an opportunity to participate and to receive some recognition for the many hours of devotion to the work which they have to do and to the hardships which they have to face. I said before the sitting was suspended that trade union officials at all levels do work of dedication which is considerably underpaid. The trade union movement in this country works for a very small level return. The trade unionist in this country has yet to accept the responsibility of paying for good trade unionism, for good trade union officials, for good trade union researchers. The amount which a trade unionist has to pay in this country by way of fees is far too low. This emerges from indifference, which possibly leads to some of those malpractices about which possibly  Senator Greenwood  will speak- the possible breakdown in the democratic method within a union which- 
I did not say that. I referred to the breakdown in the democratic procedures within a trade union which can be sheeted home to the indifference of the mass of trade unionists in this country who are not prepared to pay, and would object to, an increase in fees. Many a trade unionist in this country is prepared to pay $ 150 a year to insure his car but yet would reject the payment of an extra few dollars in trade union membership fees. From this poverty stricken approach stem a lot of the errors and failures of the trade union movement to match the challenge which management today throws out. For this reason this Bill must be recognised as something which will accept the position of the trade union delegate, official or organiser. I said before the sitting was suspended that the trade union official, especially the person who becomes a trade union advocate, carries out the work of an organiser on the job not only to stimulate his members- they do stimulate their members- to do a fair job but also to accept the quality value of the job they do. The trade union organiser does this work, and he does it substantially. 
A trade union official is a public relations man who has not only to go out and spread the message of unionism and the need to become a part of that democratic system but also to front up to those members of the union who refuse to pay their fees or those workers who refuse to join the union and participate in or contribute to the upkeep of the organisation that protects their interests. Additionally, the union organiser has more often than not, because of the inability of the union to meet the heavy financial strain, to go into the court and act as an advocate. In many cases his advocacy will match that of those who are skilled and highly paid; that is, those who are employed by the employer organisations. He has to use his native wit. In many cases because he has come up through the ranks- he needs to come up through the ranks if he is to do his job correctly and to understand what is his job- he has not had any training in the field of advocacy or organisation. For the first time this country has recognised, through this Government, the need to train those people. 
This Bill is to my mind a wonderful concept which I am pleased to say is being supported by the Opposition. In spite of one, two or three speeches that have been made and perhaps one that is about to be made there is general support for the Trade Union Training Authority Bill. The attitude that  Senator Steele  Hall has adopted that this training is something to be feared and that this trade union program will be used to indoctrinate or to subvert the worker and make him an enemy of society is a dishonest approach and he must know it. If we on this side of the House were to take the same view concerning this Bill we would say: 'We are afraid of this Bill. What it is going to do is to tame cat the trade union officials. It is going to make them a sort of elite. It is going to separate them from the working class. It is going to give them certain privileges, certain benefits. It is going to duchess them '. We could take that stand, but that is just a passing fear on our part. We do not hold such a fear as  Senator Steele  Hall held on this occasion. 
There is to be within this Bill, as a result of an amendment proposed by the Opposition, a participation by this Parliament in the functions of the Australian Council. I do not raise any great objection to that, but I cannot see the need for it. I cannot see the need for it being done in this respect when it is not done in other respects. I wonder whether  Senator Steele  Hall will look carefully at the provision that parliamentarians should be members of the Council. Perhaps he may in his rather, shall we say, diverted way consider issuing a writ against those members in case, for some reason or other, they decide to take some reimbursement of their expenses. That is, of course, a consideration that would exercise the mind of  Senator Steele  Hall. As far as I am concerned such Council membership is not a bad idea. It will allow this Parliament to participate in the work of an Authority which this Parliament will set up. It is possible that it will lead to there being a more enlightened member of the Opposition. It certainly will reinforce the position of the supporter of the Government on the Council. 
But why is it necessary for the Opposition to treat the trade union movement differently from any other organisation? Why is it necessary for the Opposition to demand a supervision of the syllabus or, as it was at one stage, the curricula of this organisation? Because it desires to interfere and to limit. If honourable senators opposite ever return to Government they will compromise the whole concept of this Bill. 
The argument has been raised- I think it was raised by  Senator Steele  Hall- that there ought to be some training of management. There is considerable training of management in this country and it is supported by funds that this Parliament provides. In fact in every university throughout this country there is some management course and in every college of advanced education there is such a course that is supported by the many thousands of dollars provided by the Government. So all we are endeavouring to do by this Bill is to provide specialist training for trade union officials and members. For that reason I believe that this Bill ought to be strongly supported. 

 Senator Steele Hall made some reference to an overseas article that indicated some concern about the over-power of unions. He should have qualified his remarks by saying that there is an over-power of certain unions. There is in the hands of perhaps one or two unions in this country an ability excessively to use certain powers. We can take as an example the Federation of Airline Pilots, which can hold this country to ransom. Let us take a look at the record of that trade union. It is the record of a trade union that holds itself apart from the affiliated trade union movement of this country. It is a union that misuses its power. But never let it be said, in spite of what  Senator Steele  Hall said, that many of the other unions involve their membership in their day by day decisions - 
-They have a right to fight politically. 
Yes, and so do the stock exchange and chambers of commerce. A union has a right to do so providing, of course, the aims and objects of the organisation allow it to do so and it is financed in a way in which it is intended that the finances should be used. The affiliated unions of this country are the unions that- I agree with  Senator Steele  Hall on this- are the backbone of the Australian Labor Party. They provide a substantial part of the Australian Labor Party's support through the efforts of their membership and perhaps by way of finance. Those unions accept a responsibility outside of their industrial area and it is right that they should do so. No one should impose upon an association of people the demand that they should in some way destroy the environment in which they live and in which their children shall live. That organisation- that union- has a right to deny the use of its members, efforts and skills in protection of the environment. That is the acceptance of a moral responsibility and it ought not to be denied them. The action to which  Senator Steele  Hall objected was the action of the Seamen's Union of Australia, which has imposed an embargo on the export of wheat from this country to the barbarous regime in 
Chile that even  Senator Steele  Hall would not support if he took the time off to investigate exactly what has happened. 
-Perhaps the Government agreed to the export of this wheat under some international agreement or some international understanding, but the Seamen's Union has in this case done a service to the Government. No one can impose upon a person or the organisation to which he belongs a demand that he do something that would be completely contrary to his moral and ethical attitude. 
-The Waterside Workers Federation, the Seamen's Union and other unions are responsible organisations that make responsible decisions and ought not to be imposed upon to do those things that are completely contrary to the desires of their membership.  Senator Steele  Hall is saying that the Seamen's Union should allow wheat to be exported from this country to a country which has imprisoned - 
-Irrespective of the Government in power. Remember this, and remember this always: The law is not - 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator McAuliffe)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I have not spoken for some considerable time on matters which concern the Aboriginal people. 1 must express some regret that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has been forced to accept an amendment of this sort to get his legislation passed. It reminds me of the many instances in which a constituted council has shown discrimination against people who have a basic right to return to their settlement- a basic right by birth, by some previous residence at that place, by some association with people on that reserve. I do not like using the word 'reserve'. Now that we have accepted the amendment, I ask the Minister whether there is some means by which an appeal can be made against a council's decision and by which a council 's decision can be reversed if a person feels that he has been unjustly prevented from returning to his home place, no matter what his fault may have been. It may have been a fault which was not a criminal fault; it may have been a fault which brought him into disrepute, shall we say, as far as some councillors are concerned. 
-They can be prevented by a council from returning. I am not saying that they ought to be forced to stay on. I would have hoped that any discrimination or any overlordship of this sort had long disappeared. If it has not disappeared by now, I hope it disappears with the passage of this Bill. Aborigines should be free to move away from the reservefrom their home, to put it that way. They should be free also to return. I hope there is some means by which an appeal can be made by a person who may be persona non grata with the council. It can happen on many settlements. It can happen on many islands, as  Senator Bonner  could possibly tell the Committee. People have been excluded for personal reasons, and for no other reason. By accepting this amendment we have left in the hands of the councils the power to exclude. That exclusion could be a very severe punishment to the person or the family of that person. I hope that the Minister, having accepted this amendment which leaves a very substantial area of possible discrimination, can convince me that there is some means of appeal against a decision by a council which could exclude or separate a family or a group of friends. 
-I must intrude for a moment. I should have liked  Senator Carrick  to take into consideration a new factor in home demand which he has neglected but which is quite evident and which has been reported in Brisbane. There has been a change in the attitude of home buyers and in the needs of home buyers, possibly because of some of the factors the honourable senator has referred to. There is a heavy demand for the older type of home and a considerable amount of the finance that has been provided by the private banks and the Commonwealth Bank has been put towards this kind of purchase. This is now reflected in the number of new dwellings that are being erected, and considerably so. I must say to  Senator Carrick  that he ought to be taking a look at the changing attitudes of people. People are certainly not now seeking out, as they used to, a very expensive mansion in the outer suburbs but are looking now to the purchase at a lower price of an established home which is more convenient to transport and more convenient for many other reasons. 
If the population trend continues as at present there will be a fall-off in demand for new building and there will be a greater demand for the older homes which become available, and they will become available more often as our population increase is reduced. I suggest to the honourable senator that he ought to look at this matter. I am not in any way denying the fact that it costs a lot of money now for a young person to go into the home or that the interest rates are far too high. I have spoken about that before. But interest rates are not the only charge that is imposed on a new home builder these days. There are all sorts of added costs and charges which one may suspect are unfair and which are placed on the young home purchaser especially if he is purchasing a new home. For example, he has to take out a life insurance for the period of the loan and finds himself paying substantial premiums at the same time as he is making repayments on the home. 
No, but it is more extensive now. It is also evident in some areas that the loans which are being provided by building societies are being directed to the purchase of homes the price of which has been considerably inflated, and we as a Senate ought very soon to be looking at some inquiry into the method by which homes are being financed by home building societies and other mutual groups because all sorts of side charges are being imposed which lift the cost of the home unnecessarily. There is also evidence of finance flowing to certain vested interests that are concerned in home building. So you have a false inflation of the cost of building. It is not fair for the honourable senator to get up and merely indicate a certain narrow area of fault. He ought to be looking at other reasons for the problems that home builders face today. The assistance which his Government gave, a sum of $500, mattered very little, because that extra $500 was soon taken up in the increased charges made to young people and was soon lost; but the interest rebate which he declared to be discriminatory has been of considerable benefit. 
I must admit also that it is not a method that we should continue to rest upon; nevertheless it has been of considerable assistance in bringing people back into the area where they can buy a home, whether a new or an old home. His concern is the concern we also share. We do not agree on the reasons and I think it might be necessary for us some time to refer to one of our committees the subject of home finance, what is happening, and what errors and perhaps what deliberate mistakes are being made in that area. 
-In an article in the 'Age' yesterday, headed 'Media's fate hangs on a door in the Deep North ' I have been gravely misrepresented, and the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts,  of which I am Chairman, has been similarly treated. The report states, among other things: 
A new kind of vested interest has moved into a position of influence on a Senate Standing Committee that seeks to shape the very heart and soul of the country. 
Queensland 's  Senator Georges  has become  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. Along with  Senator Milliner,  another member of the committee.  Senator Georges  has close connections with a Labor Party machine that operates a commercial radio station in Brisbane. 
-The article is written by a  Mr Colin  Bednall and the by-line is 'The Media'. The article further states: 
Sheer coincidence being an improbability in big time politics, it should be noted that  Senator Georges  took over the chairmanship at the time the Queensland machine was negotiating to purchase a television station, also in Brisbane. 
The first important act of the committee under  Senator Georges  was drastically to redraft its third progress report on television and broadcasting which had been prepared under the previous  chairman, Senator James  McClelland. 
The report quotes fairly accurately and substantially from a draft report that was placed before and subsequently amended by the Committee on Education, Science and Arts. The amended report became the third progress report of that Committee and was tabled in the Senate. It is fairly obvious that  Mr Bednall  had access to the draft report and that he compared that draft report with the third progress report and used it to make certain allegations against me as well as against other members of the Committee. I intend to refer the matter to the Committee in order that it may make some recommendation, if it so desires, to the Senate, but for my own part I wish to refute the allegations that this writer has made, that is that on this Committee I would be an advocate for certain interests in Queensland no matter what those interests may be. I further deny that I would support those commercial interests, as it states in the article, that support tobacco advertising and the promotion of tobacco advertising and that I would do anything on that Committee to convince my fellow members that they should pull away from a recommendation, because the profitability of certain stations might be affected. 
I would like to attract the writer's attention to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse which was tabled in this place some 5 years ago. In a minority report I clearly stated my view on the promotion of drugs of dependence including alcohol and cigarettes. That minority report clearly states that I am strongly against the promotion and the advertising of all kinds of drugs of dependence on television and radio and by other means. It follows that  Mr Collin  Bednall not only was highly inaccurate in reporting the affairs of the Committee but also he was highly inaccurate in understanding the position of members of the Committee, particularly myself. The article is gravely distorted, deliberately distorted, not only against the whole Committee but also the members of the Committee and in particular myself. 
We are dealing with Government amendments 3 and 4 to clause 26. 
Are you suggesting that the whole of clause 36 be postponed? 
Clause 36, sub-clause ( 1 ), paragraph (c), postponed. 
The question is that the words proposed to be inserted be inserted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry has moved Government amendment No. 3. 
Order!  Senator Cotton  has this information been circulated? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the holder of Northern Territory Pastoral Lease No. 529, Wave Hill Station, pursuant to relevant provisions of the Northern Territory Crown Lands Ordinance 1 93 1 - 1 972, applied to the Administrator of the Territory for permission to surrender that lease in exchange for a new pastoral lease of the whole or a specified part of the existing lease; if so, (a) has the Administrator referred the application to the Land Board of the Northern Territory for consideration and recommendation as to the specified part and area of the existing lease to be included in a new lease; (b) what has the Land Board recommended with regard to the granting of a new lease; and (c) what action has been taken by the Administrator on the Land Board 's recommendation. 
What conditions as to development work and improvement and annual rental are to be imposed under the new lease. 
What will be the terms of the new lease. 
Does the Minister intend to resume part of the lease for the benefit of the Gurindji Aboriginal Tribe located in the Wattie Creek area of Wave Hill Station; if so, (a) what is the location and area of the land intended to be excised from the lease for that purpose; and (b) what, if any, compensation will be awarded to the holder of the lease in respect of the land to be excised. 
When was Wave Hill Station originally acquired by the present holder, Vestey Interest. 

 - Senator Cotton, on reflection may I make this suggestion? I suggest we take the Bill as a whole from clause 3 onwards. You could then put the amendments in groups. This would facilitate the procedure and it would not in any way deny you, or for that matter any other honourable senator, the opportunity to obtain full explanation. The proposal is that we complete clause 3 and then take the Bill as a whole. You can place your amendments in groups. 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Agriculture. In view of the declining number of dairy farmers in Queensland in recent years, can the Minister say what has been done and what success has been achieved by the new dairy adjustment scheme to arrest this trend? 
Is it the wish of the Committee that amendments Nos. 13 to 17 be taken together? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
In sub-clause (1), leave out 'Superior Court of Australia', insert 'Supreme Court of a State or Territory '. 
In sub-clause (2), leave out 'Superior Court of Australia', insert 'Supreme Court of a State or Territory'. 
In sub-clause (3), leave out 'Superior Court of Australia' substitute 'Supreme Court of a State or Territory'. 
In sub-clause (5), leave out 'Superior Court of Australia', insert 'Supreme Court of a State or Territory'. 
In sub-clause (6), leave out 'Superior Court of Australia', insert 'Supreme Court of a State or Territory'. 
There is another matter which comes to light in the discussion of clause 44 and which arises from the debate that took place with regard, in particular, to clause 40. That is the provision contained in sub-clause (4) of clause 44. I wish to move that that sub-clause be deleted. 
Is it the wish of the Committee that the 2 amendments be taken together? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
In sub-clause (3), leave out 'the Governor-General determines ', insert ' prescribed '. 
Leave out sub-clause (4). 
The amendments are designed to ensure that the position of the members of this Tribunal are positions fixed by the Act or by regulation. The effect of the clause in the Bill is that the terms and conditions of these members may be fixed by the Governor-General; therefore those terms and conditions can be fixed by the Government. That is a procedure which invariably is followed with regard to the appointment of heads of statutory corporations and other persons who have executive functions to perform. It may be that the manner in which it has been done in the past could be the subject of some review but this Bill relates to the appointment not of a person to perform an executive function but a person who is to fulfil the role of reviewing administrative decisions. I think it is tremendously important that a person who occupies that sort of role, whether he be an ombudsman or a  president  or a member of a tribunal such as the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, should be seen to be free of any possible accusation of attachment to the administration whose decisions he is to investigate. One way in which that situation can be obtained is to ensure that his position is fixed by the legislation. If some areas cannot be fixed by the legislation and have to left and dealt with so that there is some degree of flexibility, they can be fixed by regulation. The advantage of making it by regulation is that regulations are tabled in the Parliament and people can see the terms and conditions. Where the Governor-General determines the terms and conditions, in the ordinary course no one knows what they are. That is the particular vice to be avoided and that is the purpose of the amendments. 
We believe that in the semi-judicial role which the Tribunal is to fill the terms and conditions of employment should not be left to be a matter of arrangement between the Executive or the administration and the person who is to comprise the Tribunal. It should be fixed in the manner suggested by our amendment, namely, by regulation. If the Government desires to do it by legislation we would have no objection. We appreciate that there might be some difficulties in doing it in that way. 
I am tempted to make the observation that if we postpone much more of the Bill it may be necessary to report progress in order for the clauses to be re-presented. 
Further consideration of clause 40 postponed. 
Clauses 41 and 42 agreed to. 
Clause 43. 
A decision of a person as varied by the Tribunal, or a decision made by the Tribunal in substitution for the decision of a person, shall, for all purposes (other than the purposes of applications to the Tribunal for a review or of appeals to the Superior Court of Australia), be deemed to be a decision of that person and, unless the Tribunal otherwise orders, has effect, or shall be deemed to have had effect, on and from the day on which the decision under review has or had effect. 
-At least we have seen  Senator Missen  excited. Perhaps the place is beginning to corrupt him as it has corrupted other people here, who seem to drift away from reason as  Senator Missen  has done tonight. The reason why so many Bills come into this place- perhaps not improved and not able to be improved- is that the Opposition is forcing us into governing by joint sittingsgoverning by double dissolutions. So we have Bills which come into this place and which must return to this place unimproved for that particular reason.  Senator Missen  knows that, and he knows also the reason why senators on this side of the chamber have to remain silent time and time again; it is because of the need to get legislation through and to overcome the obstructionist tactics of the Opposition. 

 Senator Missen has no right to make the accusations he has made tonight. It is the method which the Opposition has used to obstruct legislation which forces legislation to go back to the other House and to come back again in exactly the same form. This applies not only to this legislation but also to other legislation which will be treated in the same way for this reason and this reason alone.  Senator Missen, Senator Greenwood  and other members of the Opposition must accept this as being the result of the methods that they have used to stop legislation in this place. Members of the Opposition should look at the legislation which they have stopped from passing through this place. They were not important Bills. Bills that should have been allowed to go through were stopped by the Opposition in this Senate. Those Bills will go back to the House of Representatives and, in spite of the arguments of the Opposition, in order for some of that legislation to go through and in order that some of the benefits of the legislation may be achieved, the Bills must come back from the other place unchanged; and for that the Opposition must accept the responsibility. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Police and Customs. In the light of recent surveys of the use of marihuana and narcotic drugs in Melbourne and other cities, in the light of the published records of arrests of drug offenders, drug seizures and drug convictions, and in the light of the arguments presented in the articles written by  Dr John  Helmer in this week's Australian Financial Review' will the Minister advise the Parliament of his reasons for thinking that a new and more powerful police force is necessary to deal with this apparently declining problem? 
I would like to add to the series of questions asked of the Leader of the Government in the Senate on the matter of loan raising. Is it not a fact that the authority given to the Minister for Minerals and Energy to make investigations as to the availability of money was an attempt by the Government to break the longstanding arrangement created by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in raising loans through Morgan's of New York? ls it not a fact that for many years the previous LiberalCountry Party Government arranged loans through Morgan's of New York and paid substantial amounts of interest? 
As commission. Is it not a fact that  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, upon his resignation from this Parliament, took a directorship with Morgan's of New York? Is it not also a fact that  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies is still a director of Morgan's of New York? Is it not also a fact that many of the questions which have come from the other side of the chamber have been inspired by a desire by Morgan's of New York to maintain a monopoly of the loan raising by the Australian Government? 
I think it would be difficult to measure the pleasure, if I can use that word directly after a speech by  Senator Durack,  that many people, including myself, will have from the passage of this Bill. For many years now conservationists in Queensland, in particular a group called the Save the Reef Committee and another called the Great Barrier Reef Committee, have fought for the establishment of such an Authority. It has been a difficult struggle because of the many vested interests that sought to exploit the Reef. I do not wish to go right over that ground now but it was difficult to have established even a royal commission into oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef which took so long- some 5 years- to make a determination and recommendations, which were not unanimous. The only Australian on that commission, the  chairman,  came down for protection of this great area until much more research was done. 
I do not doubt that the establishment of this Authority will lead to increased research. Those of us who watched the commission operate were perhaps silently critical or critical in private of the time that the commission was taking, but we did not really object, although it was a rather expensive operation in view of the time it was taking, because the royal commission established a moratorium on the Reef for some 5 years. It enabled public opinion to develop which, on the completion of its report, led to the establishment of the Authority. 
I inform  Senator Durack  that not all people who have been critical of the Queensland Government have been members of the Australian Labor Party. In fact the most vocal people have been from opposing parties in Queensland. I refer to people like David Magnus,  chairman  of the Save the Reef Committee in Queensland, who is a member of a party opposed to my Party in Queensland but who took a very active part in the establishment of the royal commission into oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. John Greenwood, who is now the Liberal member for 
Ashgrove, also was very vocal. He took the same stand as I took, that is, that the Queensland Government does not deserve the consideration that has been extended to it in this Bill and does not deserve the representation which this Bill gives to it both on the Authority and the supporting Committee. 
My prejudice is not a Party prejudice. There happens to be a nonparty prejudice on the part of those people who for so long have endeavoured to stimulate the Queensland Government into doing something which would allow the Reef to combat and protect itself against many threats, both natural and man-made. 
I must express some concern about the Authority. As  Senator Durack  pointed out, we are not establishing a national park, we are not establishing a wilderness area and we are not establishing by this Bill what we hope will be achieved eventually. Instead we are giving a very wide power to an authority to determine what should be done, and for that reason I think the vigilance of this Parliament and all parliamentarians must be exercised. As  Senator Durack  mentioned, the Authority could make certain decisions which would be contrary to the wishes of the people of this country. It might make certain decisions on exploitation of certain areas of the Reef. It might fragment this great eco-system if we are not careful. It is for this reason that we must still exercise care. This is a great step forward. I make the point to those who will be responsible for making the appointments to the Authority that their first choice will be the important choice. The appointment of the  Chairman  of this Authority will be the most important decision made in this direction. 
The Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee which is also provided for in this Bill must be viewed more importantly because appointments to the Consultative Committee will determine the nature of decisions made by the Authority. I trust that in appointing people to this Committee consideration will be given to the many organisations in Queensland and other places which have sought to protect the Great Barrier Reef. Previously I gave credit to David Magnus and John Greenwood. I would also like to give some credit to the Secretary of the Save the Reef Committee, Freda McLennan, who worked over the years with little administrative support to maintain the level of public opinion which was necessary to get the general acceptance of this legislation. Of course the work of these people and many other people has been considerable. Without it we would not have been able to have this bi-partisan debate here in support of the Bill. 
I am under some criticism for speaking on this Bill tonight but I think I should be given at least a little time, after so many years of struggle in this direction, to express my point of view. I do not think I should be denied that right tonight. I do not intend to speak for much longer, but I must make the point clear that the Great Barrier Reef, which consists of many islands which may have to be considered differently or which may have to come under a different responsibility, is one delicate eco-system and we must be careful in the decisions which we must make for its protection. Nevertheless we must have the courage to make those decisions which are necessary but which may not be popular or which may be unacceptable even to those people who live close to the Reef, who should know better; decisions which may be unacceptable to them because in the short term they may disadvantage them economically. We must disregard those attitudes, and the decisions which must be made to protect the Reef must be courageous and determined. 
I commend all those who have been responsible for the Bill. I commend the shadow Minister for Environment,  Mr Hunt,  for his cooperation. I congratulate  Dr Cass  and the members of his former Department for bringing forward such excellent legislation which will well serve us and generations to come. It will serve not only Australia but the whole world, and particularly the nations that surround us. 
-I support the condolences that have been expressed about my colleague Bert Milliner. He was a close colleague of mine. He led the team in the campaign that resulted in his and my election to this chamber. We are fortunate that the qualities that have been described here today are reflected in his wife, his sons and his daughters. I am sure that our sympathy goes out to them. They must be comforted by the pride that they feel concerning their husband and father. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
Since January 1973, how many studies has the company known as W. D. Scott and Company Pty Ltd done for the Public Service Board. 
What is the total amount in fees for services rendered paid by the Australian Government for work done by W. D. Scott and Company Pty Ltd, at the request of the Public Service Board. 
Explain that. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, it was only a few motor cars that picked me from the aeroplane to take me to my hotel or to the ministry. 
I wish to express a word of caution. My experience in working on committees- this has been explained by  Senator Douglas  McClelland- has been that the witness has the right to bring counsel and the witness has the right to refer to counsel but that the judgment is still left with the witness. I trust that you,  Mr President,  will permit the counsel to caution the witness if counsel feels that the witness is entering into an area which may prejudice him. 
I have 2 questions.  Mr Karidis,  are you a taxpayer? 

 Mr Karidis, I am a very heavy one. 
If I were to tell you that this exercise today cost $20,000, would you consider that to be a monstrous misuse of taxpayers' money? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Are the members of the Gurindji Aboriginal Tribe, located in the Wattie Creek area of Wave Hill Station in the Northern Territory, being offering land in that area; if so, (a) what is the location and area of the land being offered; (b) when will the offered land become available for occupancy; (c) what will be the tenure of the land being offered; (d) under which Northern Territory Ordinance will the offered land be held; (e) what conditions of occupancy of the land will bc imposed; and (0 what financial assistance will be provided and under what conditions for (i) effecting structural improvements and land development; (ii) purchase of livestock, plant and equipment; and (iii) for the maintenance of members of the Gurindji Aboriginal Tribe. 
by leave- I move: 
1 ) That the time for the presentation of the report of the Select Committee on the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1975 be extended by providing that the Committee report as soon as possible; and 
That, if the Senate be not sitting when the Committee has completed its report, the Committee may send its report to the  President  of the Senate, or if the  President  is unavailable to the  Deputy President,  who are authorised to give directions for its printing and circulation, and in such event the  President  or  Deputy President  shall lay the report upon the table at the next sitting of the Senate. 
That the foregoing provision of this Resolution, so far as they arc inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
It has become necessary- and I express this necessity with regret- for the Committee to have further time to consider the Bill which is of some 285 clauses and 8 schedules- a considerable task. There has been wide interest in the Bill and 70 submissions have been received- many of them of considerable substance. However, the Committee has been active, has met on 10 occasions and has had before it representatives of the Attorney-General's Department, the Associated Stock Exchanges, and submissions from the States of Western Australia, Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland and from other people. The Committee intends to sit during the first and second non-sitting weeks of this period of Senate sittings and as often as possible on Fridays. The Committee has had difficulty in meeting because the Senate had extraordinary sittings, of which honourable senators will be well aware and also because the Bass byelection involved some members of the Committee. But in particular the work of another standing committee whose reference dealt with the Compensation Bill involved members of our Committee. In courtesy to that Committee on occasion we postponed meetings of our Committee to allow that reference to be completedas it has been. I can assure the Senate that the Select Committee will apply itself to the task of reporting to the Senate as quickly as possible. 
There is another matter which must be referred to. The Committee has had some difficulty in carrying out the inquiry under its reference because the proposed company legislation has not been before the Parliament and therefore was not available to the Committee. We have been assured by the Attorney-General's Department that that very important legislation is likely to be before the Parliament during this session. Of course the Committee will then more easily be able to deal with the reference before it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
We have just been reminded by the previous  speaker  in the debate,  Senator Maunsell,  of the policy of the National Country Party of Australia, which is to capitalise profits and to socialise losses. Let me remind  Senator Maunsell  and those whom he represents that if there is to be stability in primary production there has to be organisation both in time of plenty and in time of need. The beef industry and other areas of primary production are facing problems at the present time because in a time of prosperity no provision was made to buffer in some way those engaged in them in a time of need. The over production in the beef industry resulted from the poor advice given by the leaders of the industry to expand when the future of the market could be seen to be doubtful. 
There is no doubt that the beef industry will recover. The problems that it faces at the present time stem from a variety of sources. One has been the increase in the price of stock feed and the price of feed grains that has caused countries such as the United States of America and Japan as well as those in the European Common Market to divert from the lot feeding of cattle to the more traditional or past methods. That has caused a glut and that glut will continue because recent reports seem to indicate that the Soviet Union is suffering from drought conditions and that it has now developed a very substantial need for grain, including wheat, and other food commodities. That will further lift the price of wheat, which will further increase the difficulties of the beef producers in the United States. The glut is therefore likely to continue for some time. 
If the industry had been properly planned it could have stabilised the position in a time of prosperity. Instead of giving advice that beef production was a good thing and that as many people as possible should enter beef production the industry should have at least organised itself and established some form of quota system which would have prevented the entry into the industry of, shall we term them, Queen Street farmers or Collins Street farmers. Every Tom, Dick and Harry entered the beef industry. The beef industry quickly found itself in an over productive situation. The traditional farmers suffered as a result. Even real estate speculators who held large areas of land surrounding the cities entered the beef industry. In the north of Queensland even the Comalco organisation entered the beef industry and ran beef on the large leases it had. The traditional beef producer suffers in a time of over production. If one is to have a planned economy, as we have in other areas of primary production, it seems to me to be unreasonable to allow the entry into the production of beef of people who are not traditional growers. So  Senator Maunsell  ought to go back to the heart of the problem. 

 Senator Maunsell, who is a member of the National Country Party, as it is now called, reminded me of something that I must bring to your attention,  Mr President,  because it affects this chamber. At this very moment the National Country Party of Australia in the Queensland Parliament is about to carry out one of the greatest injustices in Australian political history because of the decision that party has made and because of its predominant numbers in the Queensland Parliament. Members of the National Country Party are about to deny the right of appointment to the Senate to a man who is entitled to that appointment.  Senator Shiel  is laughing at the present time. Let me say that the spin off from this action of the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  will be to the disadvantage of the National Country Party. Make no mistake about that. This afternoon a man who is entitled to appointment to the Senate will be denied his right of appointment. It will be done in such an unjust and outrageous way that it will in the long run or even in the short run- perhaps in the few months ahead- be to the advantage of  Dr Colston,  who is the man who will be disadvantaged. He is the man who the Liberal Party Executive in Queensland acknowledges should be the man appointed to the senate vacancy. 

 Senator Bonner, to his credit, admits that  Dr Colston  should be appointed. Newspaper editorial writers say that that is the just course. Yet, because  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is so stubborn, so bigoted and by nature so unjust, another appointment will be made this afternoon quite contrary to all the accepted principles- political principles and principles of justice.  Senator Maunsell  ought to be reminded that he is a member of that Party which will this afternoon, in a short time from now, make a decision which will be disgraceful and which will be a discredit to his Party. 
-Do you justify what the Queensland Premier is about to do,  Senator Webster,  on the basis that one wrong deserves another wrong? If that is the case, you have just established the level - 
Well - 
-For that matter, that will be the day when  Senator Webster  abides by anything that is just and right. But let me get back to the Budget. A few months ago members of the Opposition were berating the Government for doing nothing to stem inflation, for doing nothing to correct the economic problems of the country. The Government having now produced a Budget, a difficult Budget for a Labor Government to present, is now being berated for carrying out some of the measures which the Opposition was proposing. The effectiveness of that 
Budget is revealed by the attitude of the Opposition at the present time. Prior to the presentation of this Budget the Opposition claimed that there would be an elections-there was no doubt about it. The Opposition Parties were crying out for an election. They wanted an election. They were going to have an election. They were going to do this and they were going to do that. The Budget having been presented, we now find the Opposition in retreat. 
-Senator Withers interjects and says: 'Why do we not have an election?' The initiative lies with the Opposition.  Senator Withers  on many occasions has threatened an election but it seems now that the Opposition is not prepared- irrespective of the opinion polls which seem to be running against the Governmentto do that which they threatened before the Budget was presented. Therefore it seems to me that the Budget meets the situation. The Budget to me has a subtlety about it, a subtlety that is needed in order to deal with the problem of inflation. 
It does not confuse the people,  Senator Missen.  It merely indicates to the people that there is a distinct difference between the approach of a Labor Government and that of a Liberal-National Country Party Government. The difference is essentially that this Government will endeavour to ride out inflation whereas the Opposition would take to inflation with a bludgeon and shake out the economy in the traditional way. We have heard all sorts of comments about the breakdown and failure of small businesses. A Liberal-National Country Party Government would attack the problem by traditional methods, and history shows that in those circumstances not only have many large firms collapsed and gone bankrupt but that many smaller firms have also suffered the consequences. The restrictions that have been imposed by previous Liberal-National Country Party governments have been imposed in the traditional way. These restrictions have resulted in large scale unemployment, large scale collapse of industries and large scale hardship. The greatest part of the burden has rested upon the ordinary people. 
If I recall correctly, I said on the last occasion a supplementary Budget was introduced that inflation must be understood and dealt with in a different way. The capitalist system accepts the basic inflation rate of about 3 per cent to 4 per cent. That is basic to the capitalist system, and it has been accepted in the United States as basic. The percentage method of escalation of costs in a capitalist economy leads to constant inflation. A new element has been introduced which will raise the basic level of inflation. No matter what we do here that basic level of inflation has risen. In the United States at the present time, there is concern that the inflation rate which had declined to 8 per cent is now again starting to rise. They are afraid that double digit inflation rate may have now become endemic. The reason for this is something that we, as a nation, must accept. Our economy cannot be separated from the economies of the rest of the world. In the underdeveloped countries there is a desire to obtain a higher price for commodities than has been received in the past. Oil is one such commodity. Escalation in inflation caused by rises in oil prices has not yet ceased. We have the hd on oil prices in Australia at present. 

 -Yes, Senator Withers, and you will admit that it will be very difficult to maintain the price at that level. As a Labor Government, we will maintain it close to that level.  Senator Maunsell  indicated the true attitude of the National Country Party in relation to this situation. If the Opposition is re-elected to government, the lid will be taken off the price of oil and the price of petrol in this country will rise quickly. It will reach the prices paid in other places, like Singapore- which is in the heart of oil and petrol distribution- of between $ 1 .25 and $1.50 a gallon. I should like to stress this point. We must realise this and we must accept it. There are inflationary pressures outside Australia which affect our economy. As a nation we should be looking very carefully at these inflationary pressures. Oil is just one commodity involved. 
Underdeveloped countries have been placed at a disadvantage. The price of their commodities, such as rubber, has been lower than it ought to have been. Prices for their exports have been going down and prices of their imports have been going up. The position of their exchange is lamentable. A pressure now exists on them to increase the price of their commodities and that will flow into our cost structure. The price of rubber will increase as a result of 2 factors. One is the need for underdeveloped countries to receive higher prices for their commodities. The other is a result of the war in Indo-China. The hunger of China for rubber will lead to an increase in its price and that price increase will be injected into our economy. The point I am making is that inflation is due not only to some of our decisions within our economy. It is very much due to decisions made outside our economy and we must recognise that fact. 
There is something else within this country that is now adding to inflation. We have heard it said that the world is adding fuel to our inflation and that the economy is aflame. I think  Senator Maunsel  and  Senator Shiel-  they are both members of the National Country Party- both used those emotive terms. But there are certain decisions and certain attitudes which are stimulating inflation in this country. We should recognise them and endeavour to diminish them. One area in which inflation is occurring, and in which there is pressure for increased wages and salaries and a resultant increase in costs, is the area of conflict between the Australian Government and the States. This conflict is reflected in this chamber by many of the decisions made here which have prevented the passage of government legislation. Such decisions stemmed from this conflict between the States and the Australian Government. These decisions have added to the problems and to costs. They have led to increases in the Public Service in both the Commonwealth and the States. This has led to the pressure on costs. It has led to perhaps more expenditure in the public sector than should have been necessary and this has stimulated inflation. 
Let me give honourable senators an example by referring to Queensland. In Queensland the Public Service has increased at twice the rate. I think the increase in Queensland has been about 7.5 per cent as against 3 per cent in the Australian Government area. Why? It has happened because in Queensland there is now active competition with the Australian Government. Whatever the Australian Government endeavours to do  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  endeavours to match, whether in the area of drug detection or in the area of overseas trade.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  even has entered the field of foreign affairs and has escalated activities in order to establish a position in which the States are competing with the Australian Government. In the area of company control we find that there is not a reduction in the responsibilities and activities of the Corporate Affairs Commission but an increase. As the Commonwealth proceeds towards legislation in that area, instead of our seeing a possibility of activity in the State area being phased out we find an increase and a duplication- an increase in the number of departments and an increase in the number of public servants. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen, in order to establish a competitive position on the part of the States as against the Australian Government, even has begun the practice of sending fact finding groups of parliamentarians and businessmen to SouthEast Asia, an area which surely should be left to the Australian Government as it is better able to negotiate and to obtain trade agreements for the whole nation instead of a section of it.  Mr BjelkePetersen  also just recently escalated the activities of the police force in competition with the Australian Government. Instead of seeing, as we expect, some restraint in expenditure in this way we find that the States are in competition. 
In this Budget and in previous Budgets the Australian Government has provided substantial sums of money to the States. It is fair to say that the failure of some of the Australian Government's schemes is due to the failure of a State government to implement them. I believe that as a nation we should begin to grow up. As a nation we have to accept the inevitability that we are one nation and not 6 States. We have an international role to play in both trade and foreign affairs and we can play it only as one nation, not as 6 States. The activities, or perhaps I should say the antics, of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  are a denial of this inevitability. He prolongs development. He causes conflict. He increases costs and he adds to inflation. 
I must admit that the Budget does cause me some bewilderment. I have believed for some time that wages are not the prime component of inflation. I believe that wages endeavour to follow what inflation causes. We ought to be looking for a system by which prices are based on a person's ability to pay. I think we ought to be looking for a system by which not only wages and taxes are indexed but also prices. For the life of me I cannot understand why a lc increase in the cost of production, when the workers' wage is the main component of that increase, escalates through the price system and finishes up as an increase of 3c or 4c. Such an escalation leads to the inflation we are talking about. No matter what it costs I think we should quickly get down to it and index not only wages and taxation but also prices. If the cost of a loaf of bread goes up by lc, the increase to the consumer should be lc. That is not the case at the moment. Inherent in the present system of percentage application is the development of inflation. We have been very close to a position of hyper-inflation but recent events seem to indicate that there now is a downturn. The problem we face is to maintain that downturn. 
I am pleased to see that in Queensland the housing societies have decided at long last to reduce interest rates by one per cent. I believe that the housing societies have been irresponsible in offering high interest rates to depositors. That point is contested but I still stand by it. The high interest rates they offered to depositors resulted in high interest rates to home builders. It is pleasing to see a reduction of one per cent in housing industry rates. To my mind high interest rates much more than wages have substantially boosted inflation. In my view the housing societies in Queensland and in other States could operate on an interest rate at least 2 per cent below what they pay at the present time. Interest bearing deposits at the various banks which were operating at an interest rate as high as 1 1 per cent are now operating at 8 per cent or lower. Therefore the competition which the banks may have posed to the housing societies has been removed to a certain extent. It would be wise on their part to reduce their interest rates by at least another 2 per cent so that the interest rates to borrowers, the people who pay for homes, could be reduced substantially. I do not know whether the housing societies are aware that the interest rate that they fix imposes upon another area of financial interest, the credit unions, a much higher interest rate than the credit unions would like to charge. But, in order to protect their own deposits, credit unions are paying as much as 9 per cent and 10 per cent. As a result they are charging their borrowers as much as 1.5 per cent per month, which is an effective 1 8 per cent per annum- a rate which is much too high and which should be reduced. If the housing societies were to reduce their interest rates by 2 per cent, the credit unions would quickly follow. I would say that that, more than anything else, would reduce costs considerably, because the cost of high interest rates permeates or moves through the whole of the cost structure. 
It seems to me to be unusual and quite unfair that in an inflationary period we endeavour to protect those who have funds, to the disadvantage of those who do not have funds. It seems always to be argued that if inflation is high we must give to those who have funds a high interest rate in order to protect their equity and savings. It seems to me that if we are to curb inflation we ought for a short time to take the risk there may be a loss in the value of assets and savings; we ought not to take the incorrect step of maintaining high interest rates, because they in themselves feed or fuel inflation to an unacceptable extent. Inflation is the true cause of our problems. An added problem, of course, is that we do not agree on how to deal with inflation. I think that the way in which the Labor Party has dealt with the problem is the much more acceptable way; that we should ease our way out of the problem and not bash our way out of the problem. 
We should ease our way out. We have seen the effects of squeeze in the past. The credit squeeze of 1961 really brought the economy to its knees. The economy at the present dme is in trouble, but I believe that the Budget which  Mr Hayden  has brought down is a responsible one in the circumstances. I think it will achieve its ends.  It  raises some ideological problems for some of us; nevertheless, in the circumstances, it is acceptable. 
-Today, during the Budget debate I predicted that the Premier of Queensland would be guilty of a political act that is difficult to describe. A member of the Liberal Party in the other place,  Mr Jim  Killen, indicated in an article in this morning's  Courier-Mail  what he felt about the decision that appeared to be likely to be made. He said: 
In our smug way we can be convinced that this nation can be spared the ugly excesses of human activity. 
He could have added before 'activity' the word political'. He continued: 
Take but for example, the mean, shabby and quite disgraceful proceeding with respect to the appointment of a casual  Senator for  the State of Queensland. 
-That was said by Jim Killen, a member of the Liberal Party. In fairness to the Liberal Party, let me say that in the vote in Queensland today, when this decision was thrust upon the Senate, every Liberal Minister in the Cabinet voted against the appointment of this person. Yet the Leader of the National Party,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  had his way by imposing the will of his executive, the will of  Mr Sparkes,  upon his parliamentary colleagues. There is no doubt that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  in spite against  Dr Colston,  appointed the only other nominee. There were not 2 other nominees. My belief is that of the 3 propositions that  Senator Keeffe  put, this one is the correct one. From information that I received from a work mate of this  Mr -  what is his name? 

 -This Mr Field put in what would be a crank nomination. In desperation this Premier of Queensland, this disgraceful Premier of Queensland, was guilty of a disgraceful act. In order to disadvantage  Dr Colston,  the Australian Labor Party nominee, the Premier of Queensland accepted a crank nomination- the only other nomination- from a  Mr Field. 
-Not a panel; no one else. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 

 - Mr President, I was aware of that standing order, but you must appreciate the extraordinary circumstances which led to my making that statement. It would be very difficult for me to remove that description from the Premier of Queensland. In the terms that one of his colleagues, or one of his associates in coalition, used in the newspaper article to which I have referred, it was a shabby act. I say that it was a disgraceful act. I say, therefore, that the Premier of Queensland is a disgraceful man. If there is an imputation there, I say that the imputation I have made is well supported by the actions of the man himself. 

 - Mr President, may I speak to the point of order? 
In making the point of order  Senator Greenwood  said that I ignored what you,  Mr President,  had to say. In fact, I did not ignore what you had to say; I spoke to it. I sought to explain the extenuating circumstances which are before us. Perhaps I am now debating the matter, and I would not wish to debate it. But I would say that the Premier of Queensland has treated the Senate with the utmost disrespect in making an appointment to the Senate in this way. How can any of us- I include myself in this- having been treated in this way be guilty of discreditable behaviour in describing discreditable, disreputable behaviour to the Senate by outlining the way in which this appointment was made? I am abiding by the high standards of the Senate and the high standards which you have imposed - 

 Senator Cavanagh- I wish to speak to the point of order,  Mr President.  The Opposition, lacking any capability to reply to the charges that have been made, is now trying to get some political salvation out of the situation by raising points of order.  Senator Georges  has been very cooperative. When you mentioned the Standing Orders to him,  Mr President,  he recognised that the dignity of the chamber should be upheld and indicated his preparedness to abide by the Standing Orders. He told you of the extenuating circumstances which had made him go into the subject and apprently referred to the Premier of Queensland as 'a disgraceful person'. I think that it is a question, firstly, of whether that is derogatory in view of the particular circumstances. Those who enter politics put themselves in a position in which they are the subject of some criticism. To say, for example, that a politician had his hands in the till is to accuse him of a criminal offence, but  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  may not find it derogatory to be called a disgraceful person. In fact, it may be praise compared with what he is generally called in Queensland. I do not think that it can be generally said that that is derogatory. If the issue is raised I think that someone would have to show that he is not a disgraceful person and that would be beyond all the lawyers in this chamber. The point is that such a remark has been made. Irrespective of whether it has to be withdrawn,  Senator Georges  has had the satisfaction of saying what he has said. That satisfaction cannot be taken away from him. I would suggest that instead of continuing to raise points of order we should get on to the business of debating whether what the Premier of Queensland or the Queensland Government did was a proper thing to do. If the Opposition has any reply to the merits of the case put, it should reply and not seek to try to get some kudos out of raising points of order. 
I thank  Senator Greenwood  for putting me in an extremely difficult position. I withdraw the word 'disgraceful'. If, in using it in referring to the Premier of Queensland, I have been in breach of the Standing Orders I withdraw the word 'disgraceful'. 

 -No, Senator Poyser. 

I have withdrawn the use of the word,  Mr President.  In no way am I referring to the Premier of Queensland as a nut. So that cannot be directed against me. 

 -For Senator Greenwood's information I point out that on a number of occasions I have been accused in the Queensland Parliament of quite a number of things. I was accused of disloyalty by  Mr BjelkePetersen  during the time of the debates and demonstrations on Vietnam. I have been accused of conspiracy by members of the Queensland Parliament. The  Deputy  Premier of Queensland accused me of dishonouring my father's name. 
The honourable member for Murrumba- I forget his name; it is not important- indicated during the debate on the 18-year-old vote that I tickled the peter when I was treasurer of the referees association. Fortunately the records of the referees association were still available after that great number of years and they vindicated me. Nevertheless, this is the type of statement which is made by those people who represent the Liberal-Country Party Government in Queensland. In some modest way I may have used the term which  Senator Greenwood  says is in contravention of the Standing Orders. If this is so, honourable senators can see what may have driven me to the use of that word. If in continuing my remarks I use a similar word unconsciously, honourable senators will realise why I press the point. 
The Australian Labor Party has been placed in a very difficult position by an act of banditry, which is the term which was used here tonight. It could be another word starting with the same letter but that would be an offensive word to use in this place. It is an act of banditry. It is an act on the part of a man who should know better than to put in such an odd nomination. This act was taken advantage of by the Premier of Queensland. In what position does it put this Senate? At least in relation to New South Wales the appointee was a man of some standing. The appointee from Queensland is a man of no standing whatsoever. The act of the Queensland Premier is a deliberate insult not only to the Australian Labor Party but also to this Senate. 
I hope this is the last time that any government will make an appointment which is quite contrary to convention.  Senator Greenwood  said: Look, the Labor Party asked for a panel on one occasion.' Let me refresh  Senator Greenwood's  mind. The principle upon which the Australian Labor Party acted on that occasion was a high principle. It was on the occasion of the resignation of  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin. The Liberal Party had to make a decision as to who should be the candidate to replace  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin. The logical choice was  Senator Bonner.  The logical choice in this case was  Dr Mai  Colston. At that stage of the game the Liberal Party started to play around with that nomination. It did not want  Senator Bonner.  But  Senator Bonner  had both the tenacity and the ability- we now appreciate his ability- to insist that he should be the Liberal Party candidate. On that occasion the ALP said: 'If you do not nominate  Senator Bonner,  we will nominate him. ' That is an entirely different situation to the situation in which the Federal Liberal Party and 
National Country Party find themselves. When I think of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  I start to think of words like renegade, quaint - 
I must withhold myself. This action has placed the National Country Party and its leadership in, shall we say, an embarrassing position. How do we treat this nomination? How do we treat this man who comes to the Senate tomorrow to be sworn in? How do honourable senators expect the Australian Labor Party to treat such a man and such a nomination in the corridors of this place? It was a disgraceful act. There are no words which can properly describe what the Parliament of Queensland has done. I think it is also a disgrace to the memory of  Senator Milliner  that the Premier of Queensland could not, at least out of respect for  Senator Milliner,  appoint a man who is qualified, a man who went before the electorate, a man who missed out on becoming a senator in his own right by a mere handful of 4000 votes out of many hundreds of thousands of votes. Yet not only did the Premier of Queensland refuse his nomination and appointment but, in so doing, encouraged one of his back-benchers to destroy the character of  Dr Mai  Colston in a most despicable way. How can one avoid using terms against this man who engineered the character assassination of  Dr Mai  Colston and who has attempted to justify someone other than  Dr Colston  being appointed and who did everything possible to seek out some odd nomination that was brought before the Parliament. It is a disgrace to the Queensland Parliament and it is a disgrace to the Queensland Premier. 
Some comfort can be gained from the action of the National Country Party in Queensland. It has improved  Dr Colston's  position at the next Senate election. He is the Labor Party's No. 3 candidate. What has been done to  Dr Mai  Colston will be remembered by the Queensland people. What  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has done will be recalled time and time again. The great geniuses of the National Country Party do not seem to realise that the Party that will be disadvantaged will be their own Party. While on present indications the National Country Party had a chance of picking up the fourth seat in Queensland, it has got Buckley's chance now, and that is the way it ought to be.  Dr Mai  Colston will be elected to the Senate. This has-been, this person, who will have the audacity to take the place of  Dr Mai  Colston is well described and defined by a writer- I forget his name but  Senator Wheeldon,  with his excellent recall, will tell me who the writer is- as a scab. 
It was Jack London. 

 -Mr President, I have raised what I consider to be a breach of the Constitution in the appointment of Senator-elect Field. I think that the Senate is not master of that situation. It is master of all its other procedures but if the Constitution is breached the situation is different. I have raised the question that Senator-elect Field is in breach of the provisions of the Constitution and I feel that for that reason he could not be sworn in. I extend my apologies to the Opposition for raising this point at such short notice. The information upon which it is based was received from the Queensland Parliament approximately threequarters of an hour ago. My point of order is that there is a breach, we cannot proceed to the swearing-in and it is a matter of referral. After that referral and the decision and recommendation of the Committee the swearing-in could proceed. 
Any question against the choice or appointment of a  Senator which  cannot, under the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, be brought before the Court of Disputed Returns, may be brought before the Senate by Petition. 
It does not appear at the moment whether this is a matter which cannot, under the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, be brought before the Court of Disputed Returns. If it is such a matter the appropriate way for it to be brought before the senate is apparently by way of petition and not by way of motion. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Wriedt's)  be agreed to. 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. A newspaper recently canvassed the possibility of Australian firms bulk posting letters to New Zealand for redistribution through New Zealand mails to Australia. 
Will the Minister indicate the correct position as to the legality of this procedure in order to avoid any firm being misled by considerable publicity in this well known journal? 

 -Mr President, I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Wright,  who indicated that I was late from lunch. One thing that is obvious,  Mr President,  is that I did not attend the same lunch that  Senator Wright  attended. I was in Parliament House half an hour before the bells began to ring and I was working in my office. It is quite unfair on the part of  Senator Wright  to imply that I was late from lunch and to imply all those things that he implied. 
In order to give  Senator James  McClelland some time to obtain that information- if it is possible to obtain it at such short notice- I should like to come to the defence of the waterside workers in Australia against the attacks made by  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Wright.  The industry has an entitlement- I should say an obligation rather than an entitlement- to provide 40 hours of work a week for each waterside worker. It is quite unjust for  Senator Wright  or  Senator Greenwood  to start talking about idle time which is forced upon the waterside worker. Even if the stevedoring industry is not sufficiently efficient to provide 40 hours of work a week for these men, these men still have a right to receive a living wage. A wage of $157 compared with many of the other wages which are being paid for less responsible - 
-The argument that 1 am putting is that idle time ought not to be considered as lazy time. That is exactly what  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  have been putting, but it is not really correct. I know the problems that the apple industry faces in Tasmania and the problems which many other industries face because of increasing costs especially in freight charges. We are facing a problem, as I think I said in my speech on the Budget, that involves the spread of production into low cost countries. For instance, South Africa is now producing large quantities of apples and large quantities of canning fruits. Many of the goods upon which Tasmania is dependent are now being produced in South Africa by extremely cheap labour. Our problems arise because we are being beaten by the low wages which are paid in the under-developed countries and until such time as an international attitude is taken to wages which are being paid to people like waterside workers, producers and farm workers throughout the world and unless producing countries come together and reach agreement to protect the price of their products we will always have these problems which have been raised here tonight. 

 Senator Wright has attacked the Waterside Workers Federation. He has a record of attacking this union, but he ought not to attack the waterside workers right to have a living wage. It is not their responsibility. They are available to work for 40 hours. They are available to work at weekends if necessary. If they have to work more weekends than weekdays, as  Senator Wright  has suggested, then again the responsibility goes back to the stevedoring industry and also to the ship owners. I think they take their slab out of the increased costs which are imposed upon the industry by weekend work and idle time. Place the responsibility where it belongs, but do not attack the worker when he seeks to get what one would consider to be an average living wage of $157 and that is what the average weekly wage now is. 
Perhaps  Senator Martin  ought to be reminded that Miss Reid was provoked by the Queensland Premier in a fashion which we have to come to accept as typical of him. He provoked Miss Reid by some outrageous statements concerning the variety of women's organisations which have been sponsored and assisted by this Government since it came to power. Surely  Senator Martin  will not deny the initiatives which this Government has take on behalf of the rights of women. The list of achievements of the Queensland Government which she read out is really not convincing when compared with the initiatives taken by the Australian Government. Let me highlight the position of the Premier and his right to make such a statement about Miss Reid. Let me also refer to  Senator Martin's  defence of the Queensland Premier. 
The Premier can be judged by the behaviour and the standard of debate in the Queensland Parliament over which he presides. When he utters those righteous statements against certain legislation and actions of the Australian Parliament he ought first to put his own house in order. Over the last 2 days I have needed to refer to the  Hansard  of the Queensland Parliament. Previously I had not had the opportunity to read it. I have not been on anyone's mailing list and I have not received the  Hansard  of the Queensland Parliament. Nevertheless, I have been told from time to time that I have been mentioned. From my reading over the past 2 days I have also found out that  Senator Bonner  has received honourable mention and  Senator Keeffe  and a number of others have also been mentioned. 
Yes, I could. Having had to read the  Hansard  report of 2 days' debate in the Queensland Parliament, I would say that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is the last person who should criticise others for what he calls licentious behaviour. I had to read the  Hansard  to find out what happened when  Dr Colston  was denied selection to this place. To my horror I came across passages like the following which went unchallenged: 
RecentlyI learned to my horror that the Federal Government was contemplating the introduction of some amendments to the Criminal Code in the Australian Capital Territory. It proposes to change things in a way that I think will shock and sicken even the most ardent Australian Labor Party supporters. The honourable member for Bundaberg is leaving the Chamber because he does not want to hear this. 
The proposed amendments would legalise homosexual marriages. That is understandable when one realises the number of homosexuals who are now members of the Australian Labor Party. It is proposed to legalise homosexual acts between consenting males over 1 8 years of age- 
It is a chap called Frawley who, I believe, is the member for Murrumba. The  Hansard  report of his speech continues: 
It is proposed to legalise homosexual acts between consenting males over 1 8 years of age and it will be a defence if the accused believes that the other person was 1 8 years of age. However, the worst is yet to come. The proposed Bill actually legalises incest between persons over 18 years of age. When I saw that I had to read it 6 times because I just couldn't believe it. 
Those remarks go unchallenged in the Queensland Legislative Assembly which is controlled by the Queensland Premier who does nothing about such statements. The  Hansard  report continues: 
Every minister of religion, every parent and every rightthinking person in the community should be up in arms about this legislation and determined to oppose it to the bitter end. It is well known that today the Australian Labor Party has become the playground for all the ratbags, radicals, homosexuals, lesbians, touts, urgers and bludgers- you name it; the Australian Labor Party has it. In an earlier debate the honourable member for Townsville South said that he is not afraid of getting down into the cesspool to attack the Australian Labor Party. I am not frightened either, I will get down into it, too. 
Then came this interjection: 
Why don't you tell the people about thetime you were caught soliciting in a publiclavatory at Redcliffe. 
That, too, went unchallenged in the Queensland Parliament. I am relating these matters in sequence. This is what happened in the Parliament. The debate in which it occurred was the discussion on matters of public interest. Let me read further: 
The Labor Party members should hang their heads in shame at the enunciation of some of their Party's proposals. During the Vietnam demonstrations the previous member for Everton and some of his sidekicks, such as  Senator Georges,  sat down in the street, waving Bibles above their heads, shouting, 'Thou shalt not kill', and, 'Love thy neighbour'. But now they are completely disregarding the Ten Commandments. They advocate the sale of women - 
That was unchallenged: 
. and they have no respect whatever for the feelings of the people. 

 Mr Jensen interjected: 
Could you ever make a speech without tipping the tin on somebody? 

 Mr Frawley continued: 
I am not tipping the tin on anyone; I am making a worthwhile contribution to the debate. 
I know that the ALP has a plan to form a union of prostitutes so that it can cash in on the action. What better man is there to lead such a union than the honourable member for Archerfield? 
He refers to him as a 'union organiser'. 
It goes on. Shall I take another page? 
-This is  Mr Aikens.  On the same day, in the debate on the 'Vacancy in Senate of Commonwealth of Australia', which dealt with the appointment to fill the vacancy in this Senate,  Mr Aikens  said: 
All that talk of the donkey vote is pure nonsense. I could use a harsher expression but 1 feel sure,  Mr Speaker,  that you would not allow it. Has anyone ever heard of a Communist recording a donkey vote? The Communist vote is the most highly organised vote in the world, particularly in Australia. 1 know from friends of mine in the ALP that the Communist Party vote in Moreton on that particular occasion was highly organised. 
He was talking about the time when the honourable member for Moreton in the other place, Jim Killen, won his seat by a narrow margin. 
-Yes, magnificent Jim, as I am being reminded. 

 -Yes. Mr Aikens continued: 1 know from friends of mine in the ALP that the Communist Party vote in Moreton on that particular occasion was highly organised. They knew that they had to keep Jim Killen in partly because Jim Killen was the best friend they had in the Federal Parliament. He still is the best friend of the ALP in the Federal Parliament. He is almost as big a dissident in the Federal Parliament as Don Chipp. I will say that he is not as bad as Chipp, but he is damn near as bad. 
Then we have  Senator Bonner-  a coloured man. He claims to be an Aborigine. Well, at least he is pan Aborigine. We find him now rushing into the Press, crawling and cringing to the ALP. For what reason? In order to truckle to and to remain the favourite bosom pal of  Senator Jim  Keeffe, the most obnoxious character in the Federal Parliament and the most virulent anti-white racist in Australia today. I don't know what  Senator Bonner  thinks he will get from Jim Keeffe for his toadyism and sycophancy. 

 Mr Aikens goes on: 
Does anyone believe that the people of Queensland would vote for a man who, if elected to the Canberra Parliament, is pledged to vote in favour of homosexual marriages? Does anyone think that the majority of the people of Queensland would vote for a man who, in the Canberra Parliament, would support homosexual copulation? Does anyone think that the people of Queensland would vote for a man who has pledged his support for legalised incest? This is what  Dr Colston  would do if he were elected, and that is why I know the people of Queensland would not elect him. Would they vote for a man who would support legislation enabling brother to marry brother or father to marry son? Is that the type of man the people of Queensland want to represent them in the Federal Parliament? 
So it goes on. I recall that about a week or so ago I was asked in this place to withdraw the word disgraceful' which I had used concerning the Premier of Queensland. But during this debate in the Queensland Parliament mention was made of a housing program promised by the Prime Minister (  Mr Whitlam)  and an interjection was made by one of the Liberal members who said Of course he is a liar.' No retraction. In fact, the Minister said that he agreed with the interjection. This is the type of behaviour, the type of debate, the level of ethic of the Parliament over which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  rules. He is the last one who should be making criticisms. Let us take a look at what the Queensland Parliament had to say about the Senate. On 27 August 1975  Mr Aikens  said: 
I see no reason to alter any of those opinions. As a matter of fact, they are more strongly embedded than ever and I repeat that in my opinion the Senate is a parliamentary eventide home, a political scrap-heap, a political garbage bin and a political rubbish tip into which all sorts of queer characters were thrown under the party system control. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen was present at the time  Mr Aikens  made that statement.  Mr Aikens  went on to say: 
I was not going to be elevated to the Senate,  Mr Speaker. 
He is within the Parliament- within the debate- with the  Speaker  in charge of the House and with the Premier present. But I shall give you one of your National Party men in a minute.  Mr Aikens  went on to say about the Senate: 
I was not going to be elevated to the Senate,  Mr Speaker.  Do not get that idea into your head! I was going to be denigrated; I was going to descend into that cesspit, the Senate- 
Unchallenged! Unchecked by the Premier of Queensland, unchecked by the  Speaker.  I would say that this indicates the standard of the Queensland politician and of the Queensland Premier who had the supreme righteousness to attack Miss Reid and to attack this Government. Let us get on to a National Party representative. Or perhaps I should continue with what  Mr Aikens  had to say. 
I have given you  Mr Frawley  's comments and I could give you the comments of another person also. But take this: 
The Leader of the Opposition talked of Senate-elect Colston topping the poll for the election of ALP candidates at the ALP Electoral College. Good God, the less he said about the Electoral College for the election of ALP candidates the better! Everyone knows how that works. When  Senator Georges  was elected as an ALP  Senator, I  told the following story. I think there were 37 at the college - 
Only half the number that were there, incidentally-  that day, and he let it be known that there was $1,000 in it for everyone at the college who would vote for him. One fellow who was a little bit obtuse, like the honourable member for Port Curtis and others, with that lack of  perspiracity  for which some ALP members are notorious ran along to Georges and said, 'George, I'll be in that. You can have my vote for $1,000'. Georges said, 'No thanks, I've got 19. I've got enough. ' He had already spent $ 1 9,000 to win. We all know that to be true. 1 am not telling anyone anything that he did not know.  1 am not dealing with a debate which spread over a year; I am not dealing with a debate which spread over even a month. This debate took place over 2 days. 


 Senator Poyser- Mr Bjelke-Petersen is supposed to be a paragon of virtue. Let us hear what he really is. 
He is set up as a mammon of righteousness, but he is not. Let us put all those things aside, because they merely indicate the level of debate, the level of, shall we say, parliamentary standards that exist in the Queensland Parliament. I would say that many of the decisions of that Parliament are a reflection of those standards. The most serious thing of which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was guilty was the disadvantage which he caused  Dr Colston  to suffer. For that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  must be held responsible. He was responsible for allowing a police investigation to take place of  Dr Colston.  When he was headmaster of a school at Carters Ridge in 1962 a fire broke out at that school. A police officer investigated that fire and, since  Dr Colston  was the only teacher at that school, he was the person who had to respond to the questioning. On the basis of a suspicion that  Dr Colston  had the only key to the room in which the fire started and on the basis of the replies to questions by a 14-year-old boy,  Dr Colston  was considered to be guilty by the Premier of Queensland. He accepted the report on suspicion that  Dr Colston  must have been guilty of setting that fire. He was the only person who had the key to the room in which the fire was set. Since it had not been proven otherwise,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  determined that it must be true that  Dr Colston  set the fire.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  should consider very carefully the decision which he has made on this occasion. It has never been my experience previously- I doubt whether it has been the experience of any of the legal men in this Senate- to witness such a disgraceful performance on the part of a group of politicians and on the part of a premier who led those politicians. To me  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  must be held responsible for having accepted such slim evidence against a man without hearing what that man had to say in his defence. The evidence was based upon a questionnaire of a police officer, upon which the Police Department did not proceed. 
What makes the actions of the Premier more reprehensible is the fact that in the original statement made by  Mr Byrne  who gave the information to the House, it was also implied that the police file was missing and that the person who must be held responsible for that missing file was  Dr Colston  who was employed by the Police Department at that time. Subsequently the file turned up and was used in the second debate on the matter by  Mr John  Greenwood who was the member for Ashgrove.  Mr Greenwood  and 1 have worked very closely together on the Save the Barrier Reef Committee in Queensland. He was a very good advocate for the conservation forces before the Royal Commission on the Great Barrier Reef. I am astonished that  Mr Greenwood  used the file in the way that he did. It is quite contrary to all legal and ethical practice. Perhaps one day he will explain why he did it. The inference that the file was stolen by Mai Colston was placed to rest because it was produced. How did the Premier get hold of that file? How was he made aware of it? He was made aware of the file by a policeman who is now a sergeant in the Australia Police. He is a person who worked closely with  Dr Colston.  He made that file available. This member of the Australia Police is also a member of the National Party. So honourable senators can see the devious way, the devious method, which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  used to bring forward this report based on an investigation of a fire. 
There are many fires in schools. There was one just recently. It involved an administrative block in a school in Queensland. Fires in schools are very frequent occurrences. On the basis of a flimsy investigation set out on a file which was taken from the Police Department records by a person who was a member of the police force and also a member of the National Party and given to the Premier of Queensland, Mai Colston was disadvantaged in order to support his nonendorsement. When  Senator Martin  comes into this place and endeavours to support such a man she must realise that the whole basis of her argument, no matter how well expressed, is destroyed. 

 - Dr Colston resigned from his job according to the requirements of the Constitution in order to nominate for the Senate. Until today he had not been reappointed to his job. 1 am told that he is to be reappointed on Monday, after considerable pressure being applied. Let us continue to expose the actions of the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Parliament and the utterances of the Queensland members of Parliament. If anyone wants to go further into these  Hansards  they are welcome to do so. For myself, having read two copies of the Hansard, I have read enough. I do not think I will be subscribing to  Hansard.  If anyone wants to send me a free copy I will accept that free copy. If this is the standard of debate in the Queensland Parliament then I say that any criticism of the Queensland Government and of the Queensland Premier is justified. 
I  present the following petitions, identical in wording, from 22 and 14 citizens of Australia respectfully: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
THAT whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations, 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I present the following petitions, identical in wording, from 1, 18, 8, 21, 19, 16, 4, 22 and 25 citizens of Australia respectively: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
-The complaint which  Senator Greenwood  has raised against this Government is a complaint which I made on a number of occasions when his 
Party was in government, that is, that the Australian Government should assist in the protection of its citizens whether they have dual citizenship or not.  Senator Greenwood's  attitude was somewhat hypocritical and the interjection from  Senator Webster  underlined that hypocrisy. Towards the end of his statement  Senator Greenwood  referred to the desirability of persons who are dual citizens being warned of the difficulties they face if they go back to their country of origin. This is advice which must be given to them. There are many people who come from some eastern European countries who come to me seeking assistance with visas and my advice to them is that they ought not to go no matter how strong the need and no matter how strong the impulse to go back because the laws of the country from which they came follow them into this country. This they must recognise. Although they may have taken out Australian citizenship, if they are in breach of those laws while they are here they are held responsible for that breach and can suffer for it when they go back. This advice does not seem to be given to people before they go back to their country of origin which still recognises them as citizens of that country. 
I know, but whether it is wrong or not, that is the situation. I have insisted that when Australian embassies find that a person who has accepted Australian citizenship is in trouble they should go to their defence. While the Opposition was in government I insisted on many occasions that the Australian embassies should keep in close contact with these people and assist them, and in many cases they did assist them. That is what  Senator Greenwood  is getting at. The embassies should give even greater assistance to those people than they would give to a person who holds single citizenship. 
It is not only in Yugoslavia that trouble occurs. We have an Australian citizen in a South African gaol at present. He does not suffer from this dual citizenship problem but he is in gaol. Several approaches have been made following representations from me to have this young Australian deported from South Africa but the South African Government has resisted these approaches. The latest information I have from the Prime Minister, when he was Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, was that representations had been made for this young man to be deported back to Australia. The South African Government insisted that he serve the remainder of his term. The Prime Minister as Acting Foreign Minister stated that he could see no use in making further representations at that time. Perhaps what  Senator Greenwood  says should hold here also. There should be an outcry about this. This man ought not to be imprisoned in South Africa. 
-For conduct in South Africa but the punishment seems to be oppressive for the breach of which this young man was guilty. Nevertheless, he is an Australian who is in prison there and he ought to be assisted. The reasonable request that he ought to be deported back to Australia should be acceded to by the South African Government.  Senator Greenwood  is not the only person who is concerned that this is occurring. I think he should spread his concern to other places in which Australians are being put under some restrictions, including even restrictions in relation to their freedom. I think that  Senator Greenwood  is at fault in that he seems to concentrate only upon Yugoslavia and he seems to have some sort of factional approach to the problem of dual citizens. I agree with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's statement that the embassies must take a stronger initiative on behalf of these people. There ought to be- I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  has indicated this also- international conferences between those nations affected in an effort to solve the problem of dual citizenship. A person who goes back to Greece can suffer some penalty even under the present regime. Greece takes the view: Once a Greek, always a Greek. That view does not apply only to the first generation; it can carry over to the second generation as well. I find that situation- quite unacceptable and the sooner it is resolved the better. If as a result of  Senator Greenwood's  complaints there are further discussions which lead to a clarification or solution of the problem, then  Senator Greenwood's  complaints are justified. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Is the attack by  Senator Greenwood  on  Mr Justice  Murphy another breach of convention in that it has always been the rule in this Senate that no senator should criticise the Crown or the judiciary? What action can be taken, either inside or outside the Parliament, against this reprehensible act? 
I  rise merely to put a case in support of the exMinister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  based on my knowledge of the matter of the contract that has been referred to by several people, including  Senator Greenwood. 
I wish to speak to the point of order. There is no such debate before the Senate.  Senator Greenwood  was speaking on the first reading of a money Bill.  His  speech need not be relevant to the Bill. Therefore I feel that during the adjournment debate I can speak on this matter. In fact, I could continue if I so desired. I intended, on my own initiative, to raise this matter at some point, to defend  Mr Connor,  based on the knowledge that I have. 
I am on the point of order. I think I ought to resume my seat so the  President  can rule on it. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  If in the so called grievance debate tomorrow  Senator Wright  continues the allegations that  Senator Greenwood  has made I will exercise my right, under the standing order which allows me to speak to matters irrelevant to the first reading of a money Bill, to speak also. However, I do not think it would have been wise to allow  Senator Greenwood  to continue tonight. I must say that I did not know  Senator Wright  wished to continue the debate tomorrow. If I had known that I could possibly have said then what I intended to say now. For that reason I might shorten my remarks and take the opportunity to take part in the debate tomorrow on the first reading of a money Bill. But it is necessary for me to make a point on the information which I have and on the discussions which I had with  Mr Connor.  I am of the opinion that he was deceived and was not aware of the second part of the contract which the Australian Council of Trade Unions had undertaken. 
-The Royal Commission on Petroleum found that. Let us forget about the royal commission. Let me explain how I came into this exercise. The ACTU entered the petrol discounting business by obtaining an allocation of crude oil from Allied Petrochemicals Pty Ltd. Incidentally, I believe there may be some case for stating that XL Petroleum Pty Ltd, the company of  Mr Sykes,  had an entitlement to that crude, but it was ruled that XL did not have entitlement but Allied Petrochemicals did. When the ACTU entered into an arrangement with Allied Petrochemicals to take this allocation of crude it did it in 2 ways. Firstly, it undertook to pay what the then Minister said should be the price paid by any petrol company in Australia, that is $2.10. No company should take an advantage of this special allocation of fuel without at the same time making arrangements to take up an allocation of imported crude which would have made a considerable difference to the price of that allocation of Australian crude. But this was not the case. What the then Minister was made aware of was that the price was to be $2.10. Allied Petrochemicals was prepared to get out of the market and to pass its allocation across to the ACTU at $2.10. By this means ACTUSolo was able to enter the discount market and to discount petrol by as much as 14c a gallon, working on the principle that it could survive on a margin of 2c a gallon provided it got volume sales. This was the method by which the ACTU whether rightly or wrongly- I say wronglydecided to enter the market. 
But the ACTU also intended to enter the market in Brisbane, exercising the same discounting arrangements which would have considerably dislocated and distorted the market. Let me make this perfectly clear:  Mr Connor  was always in support of an orderly market for the distribution of fuel. He was also always concerned about the need to protect those who were importing overseas crude, the price of the overseas crude being as much as three or four times that of Australian crude.  Mr Connor  took the view- in my discussions with him on this matter he supported the view- that there ought to be an orderly market for the distribution of fuel in this country and that the continuing supplies of fuel to this country depended on companies importing overseas crude. It would be grossly unfair for any company to take on a special allocation of Australian crude without at the same time taking the responsibility for the importation of overseas crude. The ACTU being aware of this apparently- whether it was  Mr Souter  or someone else- came to the arrangement of accepting this crude at the established price. 
It would not be what we would consider to be a fair practice, nor is it a fair practice, as I have expressed to  Mr Hawke,  to enter the market to discount wildly as the ACTU intended to do in various places to the disadvantage of the whole market and of the living conditions of many people who depend upon the orderly distribution of fuel. There is no doubt that because of the faulty distribution of fuel in Australia the price of petrol is too high. But the question ought not to be attacked in the manner in which the ACTU determined to attack it. It should be attacked in a more orderly fashion, reducing the distribution outlets to some reasonable level so that each person who operates a station at a fair margin can sell at a fair price. 
We- by 'we' I mean the Union Co-operative in Queensland which operates 7 petrol selling sites- objected strongly to the ACTU 's entry into the market in the manner in which it entered the market discounting, as I said previously, wildly. We believe that this would distort the market and would in fact lead to the closure of the sites that we have operated not for the past year but for the past 9 years. I made an approach to  Mr Hawke,  and he agreed that we should be considered. I also made an approach to  Mr Connor,  and it is at this point that I strongly believe that  Mr Connor  was not aware of the second agreement. I feel confident that  Mr Connor  was not aware that anyone was prepared to break the agreement to which all the oil companies agreed, that is, that they would not purchase this oil at a price above $2.10. 
It was not necessary for the former Minister to go before the Royal Commission and give evidence because the Royal Commission found, as I consider rightly, that the former Minister was not in possession of the full information. In fact I believe that the former Minister- I feel strongly on this- at the present time has been disadvantaged for a variety of reasons. He should not be disadvantaged on the basis of this agreement that ACTU-Solo entered into with Allied Petrochemicals. The Royal Commission found rightly, and I think that it is quite unfair for anyone to bring charges against the former Minister at this stage. He consideredI say it again- that there must be an orderly market for the distribution of fuel in Australia. That was the view that he took. He would not have been a party to, nor did he know of, the methods that ACTU-Solo intended to use, that is, to give a 14c discount out of its 16c margin and to attract volume sale to the disadvantage of the rest of the industry. 
I believe that if the ACTU-Solo operation is run correctly, if it is prepared not to distort the market and if it is prepared not to engage in unfair practices, it is one that ought to be supported, and I believe that if the ACTU-Solo organisation was prepared to take responsibility for importing overseas crude, it ought to be given an allocation. The organisation ought to enter the market as all other people enter the market, and on the basis of the organisation's sales it should receive an Australian allocation. What I resent, firstly, is what  Senator Greenwood  and others have said about the former Minister being party to a deception. He was not. What I also object to is that ACTU-Solo should enter into the market using what I consider to be unfair practices of price cutting to the disadvantage of other people in the industry. 
I reiterate that it is quite unfair for  Senator Greenwood  to attempt to disadvantage  Mr Connor  further. I believe that he has been disadvantaged enough. It is a little late in the piece for  Senator Greenwood  to enter this attack. If he seeks by this attack to embarrass the Government further, I do not think he will succeed. I think it would be wise for him to understand and to accept the Royal Commission's finding that the former Minister was deceived. If  Mr Souter  was party to that deception, he must accept the responsibility. If there were others who had knowledge of that deception, perhaps  Senator Greenwood  should be directing his attack to them. As the matter stands, the Royal Commission found something. We should accept that. We should not pursue it any further. We should not drive  Mr Connor  any further than we have driven him so far. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement. 
It is by way of personal explanation. 
If  Senator Wright  realised what I intend to do I do not think he would have objected in the first place. Having read this morning the  Hansard  report of what happened during the closing minutes of yesterday's debate, I must say that I owe you an apology,  Mr President,  and I owe the Senate an apology for the number of interjections which I made and, in fact, from reading the  Hansard  record, I would say for my refusal to accept your direction. For that I apologise. I think I was slightly inflamed by a comment made by  Senator Wood,  but I do not wish to proceed with that either. My apologies. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No.  1) 1975-76  First Reading 
Debate resumed. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question following on a question asked by  Senator Wood.  Will the Minister inform  Senator Wood  and the Senate that  Mr Khemlani  is under exclusive contract with the Melbourne  Herald  and that at the present time  Mr Khemlani  is staying at the Hilton Hotel-- 
-Has the Minister for Social Security seen a report in today's  CourierMail  newspaper that the socialists in Canberra are attempting to intimidate pensioners by ceasing to pay their pensions? If so, can he verify that these allegations made by the Queensland Welfare Services Minister are false and malicious? 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture have any knowledge of requests from Queensland for the formation of a national coarse grains marketing board? If so, what action is being taken? 
I agree almost totally with what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has said, but if that convention or principle is to be maintained it ought not to suffer the misrepresentation for which  Senator Withers  has been responsible. I think this has led to what may have been a disclosure of confidential conversation across the table, and it needed to be disclosed to show how the true situation had been misrepresented. In considering this problem- I will deal with it only shortly because  Senator Douglas  McClelland has covered the whole ground- it must be realised from the motion of which  Senator Withers  gave notice- it was fairly obvious from the nature of the motion- that it was intended to proceed with the motion today forthwith, using the power that the Opposition has, the power of numbers. If we look at the motion of which notice has been given we see that paragraph (3) states: 
That the Committee meet within 4 hours of the passing of this resolution. 
That indicates the determination of the Opposition that something should be done forthwith. Further the motion states: 
That the Committee proceed to the despatch of business notwithstanding that all members have not been duly nominated and notwithstanding any vacancy. 
That again indicates that the Opposition intended to proceed, irrespective of the fact that the Government would not have been able to appoint its members to the Committee. What was a matter of urgency yesterday surely was a matter of urgency today. It is fairly obvious that the Opposition parties have pulled away from their determination to set up such a committee and from their determination to call  Mr Khemlani  before this chamber. 
I shall refer to another matter which shows just how the Leader of the Opposition has misrepresented what has occurred in this chamber. I think that the Leader of the Opposition ought to be called to account by the Senate. This situation may be the result of some work done by his public relations man. I am not certain just how this misrepresentation could be the responsibility of 

 Senator Withers. One does not expect that sort of behaviour from the Leader of the Oppositionfrom  Senator Withers  in particular. On the previous day the Press officer for  Senator Withers  distributed to the Press gallery the text of a radio and television interview with  Senator R.  G. Withers, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. It is dated 29 October 1975. 1 refer the Senate to the second question: 'Why a committee?'  Senator Withers  is said to have answered: 
Anyone who saw what happened when  Mr Karidis  was before the Senate and saw the disgraceful behaviour of the Government senators at that stage would never again want to bring someone before the Senate unless the Senate was rigidly controlled from the Chair. 
Other things follow from that, but I want to concentrate on that statement and that statement alone. There was a gross misrepresentation by  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition, of what had occurred in the Senate at the time when  Mr Karidis  was called before the Senate. Secondly, he inferred that the Chair was at fault on that occasion because he used the words 'unless the Senate was rigidly controlled from the Chair'. That reflects upon the Chair and seems to give fairly firmly the inference that on that occasion the Senate was not under the complete control of the  President. 
I knew of this statement. I did not think that it was worthy of mention on its own. But there has since been this second misrepresentation, a very gross misrepresentation, by  Senator Withers  and I believe that, taking both matters into account, he should be asked to make an explanation. I know that  Senator Withers  possibly is not available at the present time, through no fault of his own, but I do insist that if this misrepresentation - 
I am not quite certain but I think we were to adjourn at 5 p.m. We all make certain arrangements on a Thursday in order to get back to our respective States. It is quite possible that at this hour  Senator Withers  might not be available to respond to what I had to say. But I do believe that, on the basis of what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said and especially on the basis of what I have said,  Senator Withers  should be asked to give an explanation of this misrepresentation. It ought not to continue because, if it does continue, as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has said, the procedures in this place can fall apart. 
I might say that there was also a misrepresentation in the text of a telegram which  Senator Greenwood  sent to the royal commission. One allows these things to pass, but the text of the telegram is not accurate as to what did occur. If that is the way in which the Opposition wishes to play the game in this place, then it can expect to have strong objection from this side. There have been 3 instances of misrepresentation having taken place over the last 2 days which led to a distortion in the Press, to misinformation and to the fraying of tempers even more than they have been frayed today. I suggest that by some means  Senator Withers  ought to make an explanation to the Senate. 
I notice that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  has just walked into the chamber with a reprehensible circumstance under his arm. I do not doubt that we will hear more about that later.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I take this opportunity to address you without very much fear of an interjection because I know that a very important event is taking place in Melbourne. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said this morning, even the banks are closed. One of the methods which he suggested might be used to see the Government through its difficulties was an approach to the banks. I do not doubt that today would be a poor day to approach the banks in Melbourne. I have listened to this debate for 2 or 3 weeks now. We have the Appropriation Bills before us for the third or fourth time. It could be the fifth or sixth time. If we go into next week or the week afterwards it possibly will be the seventh or eighth time. This indicates and really describes fairly clearly the tedious method which the Opposition has used in order to have its own way. Its own way is to demand of the House of Representatives- not this chamberthat it should go to an election. 
I have listened to a variety of constitutional lawyers and politicians on this matter. I must admit that I am as confused now as I was before I commenced. I am not quite certain whether there is the constitutional power for the Senate to reject a money Bill. I have been told by many 
Opposition senators that there is such constitutional power; that there is no constitutional crisis as such, that it is a political crisis. Whatever it is, the result is exactly the same. Those people and departments which need funds to carry out their programs- whether they be State government programs or Australian Government programs- are not receiving the necessary funds to carry them out. In fact, it is said that at the end of November there will be many people who will be deprived of payment for their services, whether they happen to be employees or employers. This is a sorry situation to which we have been brought. It is quite a simple matter. We have had several weeks for reflection. 
I can hear the quorum bells ringing in the other place. It is rather poor timing on the part of someone to call a quorum. I doubt that it is a division at this time of the afternoon. Let me put this to the Opposition: After some 4 weeks of debate on this matter, surely the Opposition has come to the conclusion that by a simple act on its part, that is by walking across the floor, the Supply Bills could be passed, this crisis would be over, we could proceed to pass the necessary legislationwe now have a considerable backlog of legislation- and we could have an opportunity to be with our families for the Christmas period. But of one thing we can be certain, and that is that the Australian economy will not suffer the consequences of the Opposition's act. 
It is a rather complicated course and one which the Opposition ought not to impose upon the House of Representatives. I decided to read back over the speeches which led to the setting up of the Federation. There are several books on this matter. Honourable senators opposite would have been wise to have read the speeches which were delivered at the various conventions which led up to Federation. Honourable senators will find that almost all speakers took the view that, although the 2 Houses were to be co-ordinate and were to have almost equal power, one power which they did not intend to give to the Senate was the power to reject money Bills. Section 53 of the Constitution merely refers to the amendment of Bills and to those Bills which cannot be amended by the Senate. I wonder whether constitutional lawyers and some of our constitutional experts opposite could put their minds to this proposition: If it is not possible for the Senate to amend money Bills, if it is not possible for the Senate to amend 99 per cent of a money Bill and to leave one per cent unamended- I take it that that is not possiblethen surely it must be accepted that it is not possible to reject the Bill in toto. The only people who could decide upon this would be the judges of the High Court. Unfortunately, there is no means by which this matter can be tested. Perhaps one ought to do some investigation in order to find some means whereby the Parliament can refer sections of the Constitution for interpretation by the High Court without the legislation having to be passed through the House. It seems to me to be a simple proposition. Parliament should be able to ask whether a matter is constitutional before the legislation is passed. We would have fewer problems on the Senate Select Committee on the Corporation and Securities Industry Bill 1975 - 
I do think big at this time of the afternoon. It is wise to think big and now that I am on my feet I have to think long, until at least 3 o'clock. But let me get back to the consequences of the action taken by the Opposition, the consequences of that search for the reprehensible act. We have been taken through the loans affair and the ACTU-Solo affair. We have been through the Khemlani episode. We are about to have the Khemlani episode resurrected. The Opposition has been in search of a reprehensible act. This search has gone on continually, and continually it has failed. The proposition is simple enough. Why does not the Opposition change its mind? Why does not the Opposition think of the people if it is talking about the people? It looked at the various polls and judged them some time ago. The Opposition thought the polls were in its favour and it acted accordingly. Now that the polls are not in its favour, why does it not act accordingly and pass the Appropriation Bills so that we can get down to the business of running the country? I take it from the looks on the faces of members of the Opposition, both in this chamber and in another place, that it is somewhat dejected. 
I know that  Senator Withers  has been doing considerable reading of material which came out of 8 brief cases owned by one, Khemlani, who sounds like a runner in today's event. 
-He is the horse who bolted. 
If I was asked what horse I would be backing in this afternoon's event I would not be able to bring a horse's name to mind, but by association of ideas one name that does come to mind is Khemlani and that horse has bolted, really bolted. What the Leader of the Opposition is intending to do, I have no doubt, having had here the author of the papers which he holds so dearly to himself at present and that author having departed to other places, is to go through the exercise today of having those papers presented to us as papers of great authority. That is for the Leader of the Opposition to establish and I doubt very much whether he can establish a case against the Government. 
In any case the people are very tired of what is going on. I do not know whether they really appreciate the antics of the Opposition. They certainly will not appreciate, especially the people and commercial interests in Canberra, the drying up of Supply funds which will place them in a precarious position before the end of November. I believe that the people hold the Opposition responsible for this situation. As to the constitutional power to deny Supply, as I said before, having listened to all the constitutional lawyers and having become aware of their divisions and variety of opinions, 1 am not certain of this power. However, I can accept that there could be a situation where the Senate could take unto itself the power to reject Supply. Let me put myself in this position: The House of Representatives could seek to appropriate a vast sum of money, speaking in retrospect, for the continuation of the Vietnam war. I most certainly without hesitation would vote against that appropriation. Speaking from an individual point of view in a circumstance of that sort, I would say, standing where I do at the moment, that I would vote against that appropriation. 
However, the situation, the circumstances, now are different. Here we have what is without doubt a grab for power by the Opposition led by  Mr Fraser. Mr Fraser  has been poorly advised. He has sought to achieve power before his time. If he had struck to his original decision- though  Senator McLaren  has indicated that he did not have one- that the Government was entitled to serve out its full term, no doubt his chances of winning government would have been considerably better than they are at present. I have no doubt that some members of the Opposition parties did give that advice, that is, that it would have been better to wait until then. Twice now the Opposition has attempted to reject Supply. Eighteen months ago it attempted it and failed. Opposition senators should realise that if they had not attempted it then, the elections they are looking for would have been held right now and held without the loss of favour which they have suffered as a result of this manoeuvre. There is no doubt in my mind having looked at the polls, the economic situation and the inflationary trend that seems to continue, that those would have been circumstances which would have led to a change of government. But the Opposition has messed it. There is no doubt about it, the Opposition has placed itself in a sorry state and has itself to blame for that. 
What members of the Opposition parties should do- and most of them now are taking the view that  Mr Fraser  got them into this mess and  Mr Fraser  should get them out of it- is at their next Party meeting, and I say this with all sincerity and for the good of the economy, to advise  Mr Fraser  to back off and back off quickly. In fact he has half backed off. What a strange situation! The Liberal Party, the Liberal Premiers, Liberal Opposition leaders and the senior members of the Liberal Party met at the weekend and pulled away from their position by announcing that they would allow the Appropriation Bills through providing the Prime Minister gave them an assurance of a House of Representatives election before next June. 
Maybe he was going to do it last year, but it appears to me that the Opposition has held the Government to ransom for an election immediately but has now backed off and said: 'Give us a half election and hold it before next June, if you like'. That is a back down and it must be causing some Opposition senators considerable embarrassment. I think the best idea would be for them to call the whole thing off. I do not think the Opposition would lose any face. It should let the Supply Bills go through and fight its political battle on the legislation before the Parliament. 
We have not yet debated the provisions of the Bill. No one on the Opposition side has bothered to do that. They have merely attacked the Government on its performance referring to three unusual circumstances, but it has not really attacked the Government on the Appropriation Bills. Those Bills need to be tested, and if the Opposition had any sense it would allow those Bills to go through and be tested. There will be a half Senate election before 30 June and there will be an opportunity then for the people to judge the Budget but it cannot be judged until it has been passed. 

 Senator Sim made the statement that the Government had lost the confidence of the Parliament. That is not correct. It has not lost the confidence of the House of Representatives. It still has a majority in the House of Representatives and that is where there should be the test of money Bills of this sort. There is no lack of confidence in the Government in the House of Representatives. The Government has the numbers and as long as it has the numbers it is the master of the situation. Even if we took the Parliament of the whole, that is, the House of Representatives and the Senate together, there is not a majority of the members of this Parliament who want the rejection of Supply. In fact, even if we take the whole of the Opposition as being in favour of the rejection of the Budget, and I do not think all Opposition members are, the Opposition still does not have a majority of members of Parliament favouring rejection. There is a difference of one in this place and the vote here will possibly be 29 votes to 28, or even allowing for pairs, with a majority of just one. So if we count members of the House of Representatives as well, that is, taking the Parliament as a whole, the Government has a majority of members of Parliament in. favour of the passing of the Budget. In other words, the whole of the Parliament believes that the Appropriation Bills should go through. I trust that we will not have to debate these Bills again. As I said when I spoke on Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4), I hope this will be the end of it and that we will not have to debate Appropriation Bills Nos 5 and 6, Nos 7 and 8, and Nos 9 and 10. It is tedious. 
One ought to be forgiven for losing count because we have gone through this exercise time and again looking for the reprehensible act that will gain the necessary support for the Opposition. 
-No, it cannot find it, but there is a stack of papers on the other side of the chamber that is going to prove interesting later on. Of course, as I said before, the author of those papers has bolted overseas. Nevertheless we will debate that issue. 
-I do not know whether the term that should be used to describe his departure is 'shanghaid', but I do know that he has been going backwards and forwards between Singapore and Australia like the proverbial yo-yo. Neverthless the Opposition had every opportunity to bring him before the Bar of the Senate. On two or three occasions it was invited to bring him before the Bar of the Senate, as it did previously with a  Mr Karidis  and several public servants. The Opposition had every opportunity to bring  Mr Khemlani  before the Bar of the Senate and it will have the opportunity, if it so desires, of bringing him back.  Mr Khemlani  has offered to come back again. I do not doubt that the proper way in which to deal with the forthcoming situation would be to produce not just  Mr Khemlani  's papers but both  Mr Khemlani  and the papers. That would be the real test of the situation. In any case I anticipate what might be said later by other members of my Party. 
I accept what  Senator Cotton  said as he concluded his speech, namely, that there needs to be considerable reform of the tax structure in this country. I do not place the same emphasis as he does on those matters which he considered to be important. However, although he conceded that the Opposition is not opposing these Bills, he seems to indicate that there has not been any significant change or significant advance as the result of this legislation. But there has been. I do not say that it is the end, but there have been some significant reforms. It should be accepted by the Opposition that what the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  proposes represents a very important advance. It certainly improves what has been the position to date, and what  Senator Cotton  has said merely emphasises what I am saying. If we were to remain under the present tax structure or the present means of the taxing of individuals and companies, both individuals and companies would be considerably worse off at the end of this year than they will be under these present reforms. 
I accept, as  Senator Cotton  accepts, that there needs to be a continuing review of taxation. I accept that inflation adds to the burden that taxpayers have to face. But let us accept, although the Opposition is not prepared to accept it, that inflation is caused by several factors. Some of them are major factors over which we have no control. It is caused by significant changes in costs which result from decisions made overseas. It is agreed that as a result of our own economic decisions, inflation is affected here in Australia. I do not doubt that because of certain other reforms that have taken place, inflation has been speeded. In fact, I think that our change to the metric system of weights and measures has added considerably to costs and therefore to inflation. This generation bears the burden for what will be of benefit for coming generations. For that reason we ought not to pull away from the additional cost which is placed upon us now. There is no doubt that the costs of foodstuffs in particular have risen considerably because of the introduction of the metric system. Manufacturers and retailers have taken advantage of the changeover just as they took advantage of the change from sterling to the decimal system in currency. 
There has also been a significant uplift in costs as a result of the new trade practices legislation which deprived many retailers of the advantage of long established discounts. Again, the manufacturers took advantage in the early stages of the application of this legislation to lift their prices. All these things add to inflation, and inflation increases wages and incomes. With that increase in wages and incomes, the tax gatherers have benefited considerably. We must be concerned about this because if the money is easily obtained by government through unfair taxation, that money which is easily obtained is easily spent and perhaps easily wasted. From time to time, honourable senators from both sides of the chamber have pointed to areas of gross misuse of public moneys. It must always be recognised, and public servants must always be reminded, that tax gathered from people should be used wisely. Some of these burgeoning new government departments must always be reminded that it is the taxpayers who pay for their expansion and that it is the taxpayers' money which should be carefully husbanded so that there is no waste and no misuse. 
Let me return to what the Treasurer is proposing with two of these Bills. I think that it would be wise for all taxpayers, whether they be private individuals, businessmen or corporate accountants, to obtain this document which is entitled New Personal Income Tax- Budget 1975-76, which was published on 19 August 1975. There is an introduction by the Treasurer, Bill Hayden, which reads as follows: 
This year's Budget introduces the most sweeping reform of the personal income tax ever undertaken in Australia. The new system is explained in the following pages. 
The present system, which has persisted virtually unchanged for over two decades, is behind the times. Its shortcomings have become increasingly evident as the years have passed. 
A thorough-going reform of the personal tax system is preferable to further piecemeal adjustments within the existing framework: no amount of tinkering can repair the defects of a structure which is basically unsound. 
I think that that statement has the general agreement of honourable senators from both sides of the Senate. The Treasurer continues: 
The new system of personal income tax is simpler, fairer, more flexible and more efficient than the system it replaces. It is also more in keeping with the Government's social welfare objectives and programs, and more readily adaptable to the ever-changing requirements of economic management, revenue-raising and the containment of inflation. 
I will not proceed into the document itself but merely advise that it is a document of which all taxpayers should take advantage, especially since the second reading speeches on both the Bills to which I have referred are inclined to be too technical and, to my mind perhaps because I have no knowledge in this area, too confusing. The document shows that there have been considerable changes in taxation and that considerable advantages have been given. I wish to quote what was stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Senator Wriedt)  on the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2). He said that there was no doubt that in a redistribution of the taxation burden there would be some gainers and some losers. He went on to say: 
From the point of view of taxpayers collectively however, gains will exceed losses and the total amount of income tax to be paid annually by the individual taxpayers will be some $205m less under the new system than it would have been if the old system had continued. 
A benefit of $205m will flow to all taxpayers.  Senator Wriedt  went on to state: 
Considerations of equity demand that the gainers in the redistribution should be those people who, out of a modest income, maintain dependants with little or no income of their own. This will be achieved under the new system by the generous scale of rebates for dependants. Those who will pay more tax under the new system will, for the most part, be persons without family responsibilities or members of multiincome households. 
Surely there can be no argument against the proposition that those who have the greater need will pay less than those who have the lesser need, who will pay more. This new tax reform will do that. It means that many people will gain and that some people will be disadvantaged. But those people who are to be disadvantaged are in the position to accept that disadvantage economically. About 3 million Australians- approximately two-thirds of all taxpayers- will receive substantial tax cuts under the Australian Labor Government's new personal tax scheme, the scheme of which we are speaking now. The Australian family man with a dependant wife and 2 children is able to earn more than $100 a week free of tax. A substantial number of people in Australia still do not earn $100 a week. A substantial number of families in Australia are dependant upon a single income. Unfortunately, too many people must seek a second income. Many men either through inability or other extra responsibility at home, are unable to take advantage of overtime or of other means of employment. Under this scheme about 500 000 taxpayers are freed of the responsibility to pay tax. The tax grab from overtime payments and from other additional earnings will be slashed by almost 30 per cent for the average weekly wage earner. This involves those who must work overtime to make their way. Many have to do so. So the incentive to work harder is not in any way inhibited by heavy taxation on the amounts earned from hours worked above the normal hours of work. Without basically agreeing with the principle of such people having to work overtime, since it is a reality, one must accept that the proposal is a considerable improvement. 
I turn now to the provision relating to parents without partners. There are many parents without partners these days- some through choice, others because of some disaster. They will receive a special tax reduction of almost $4 a week. One could have no argument against this. As we proceed through the Bills, we see definite advantages. Although  Senator Cotton  said that these advantages may be eroded by inflation- we hope that the rate of inflation will diminishthose people will be better off under this legislation than they would be if it were not passed. 
-Yes. I refer now to the backdated rates. These are some of the highlights of the new tax scheme. They are possible only because of the fundamental changes in the tax system. The new tax rates will apply to the full financial year commencing 1 July 1975. The weekly tax cuts will become obvious on 1 January. I think the benefit of the new legislation will be apparent to people as from 1 January. I suggest that the pamphlet to which 1 referred previously be widely distributed for the benefit of all taxpayers. There will be considerable tax deductions in the first pay packet on or after 1 January. Tax cuts for the first half of the financial year will be reflected therein. 
The new system will be simpler, fairer, more flexible and more efficient than the discredited scheme which it replaces, lt removes several serious tax anomalies which have attracted so much criticism in recent years. Ironically, the old system gave the biggest tax concessions to the richest, and the smallest benefits to the poorest. For example, a man with a taxable income of $40,000 a year got back $2 out of every $3 he claimed as deductions from his income. A man with a taxable income of $5,000 got back a little more than $ 1 out of every $3 he claimed on his tax return. I am quoting now from another document which, although there does not seem to be any authority for it, I believe is a document issued by the Treasury. It gives in a simpler way the message given by the other document to which I referred. I shall speak to it a little further. It states: 
The wealthier man's dependants were worth almost twice as much as the poorer man's dependants! The new rebate system provides much more generous tax reductions for dependants, but the value to each taxpayer does not depend on the taxpayer's income bracket. 
The document speaks also of new tax rebates. Perhaps I could merely indicate just how substantial the tax cuts could be. I give only one or two examples, although there is a substantial scale here. The examples relate to a family man claiming for a dependent spouse and 2 children. Such a person with a weekly earning of $100 has a current weekly tax of $6.40.  His  new weekly tax will be nil. That person will have a saving of $6.40 a week- a substantial saving, a much needed saving. The current tax paid by a person on $140 a week is $19.95 a week.  His  new tax will be $14.10 a week.  His  weekly saving will be $5.85 a week. I go even further and take a person who is on $200 a week.  His  current weekly tax is $46.15.  His  new weekly tax will be $36.55. That is a saving of $9.60 a week. So one can see that for a family man claiming for a dependent spouse and 2 children the benefits flow up to a weekly income of $200. However, a single person without dependants earning $100 a week would suffer. He will have to pay an extra 70c a week. A single person without dependants on $180 a week pays $45.65 a week tax.  His  new weekly tax will be $43.50.  His  saving will be $2. 1 5 a week. 
Therefore one can see that the system which the Treasurer proposes is a great advance and gives greater equity and greater justice to the taxpayer than the present system. No one will argue that the new scheme has gone as far as it should. No one will argue that it is complete. We must accept  Senator Cotton's  statement that there is room for further improvement. I agree with  Senator Cotton  and those in the Opposition who agree with him that there needs to be continuing review, continuing reform and continuing amendment of our tax laws. There needs also to be very careful scrutiny. I think the Senate takes very responsibly its duties. There needs to be very careful scrutiny of the expenditures out of tax revenue. I think all senators who are members of Estimates committees would like to give further time to a closer scrutiny of expenditures by departments of moneys provided out of tax revenue. I think we do our best, but we are often limited by time. 
In addition to the personal income tax provisions the Bill provides also for the accelerated income tax deductions for depreciation announced in the Budget Speech. I am talking now about the assistance to industry. It is accepted that industry must be relieved in some way of the burden of taxation. I noticed recently that in Queensland the payroll tax which was a considerable imposition, especially on a smaller businessman who was endeavouring to establish himself, has been reduced. It was not before time. It was an extra imposition by a State upon businesses which were heavily imposed upon already by Australian Government taxation. I have no hesitation in supporting the principle that small enterprise should be supported, that it should be assisted and that its tax burden should be reduced, especially since compensation premiums now tripled, seem to have imposed an added burden on small enterprise. Once small enterprise is able to develop to a stage where it can employ greater expertise of course it is in a better position to accept the taxes and to provide accordingly. 
Nonetheless, this legislation does some significant things and it ought not to be denied that they are significant. The proposed measure in respect of depreciation represents a significant widening of the scope of the provision which was enacted last year to grant depreciation reductions at double ordinary rates in respect of new manufacturing and primary production plant. The new provision will apply to all new plant that is first used or installed ready for use, for the purpose of producing assessable income, on or after 1 July 1975, other than certain motor vehicles and plant that qualify for special statutory rates of depreciation. No time limit has been set for the operation of this provision. Taxpayers will be entitled to claim deductions on eligible plant at twice the rates normally applied for income tax purposes. The increased rates will continue to apply in the succeeding years until the cost of the plant has been written off or until the plant is sold or otherwise disposed of. Taxpayers may elect to forgo the accelerated allowance if they so wish. 
Finally, the Bill provides for the provisional tax otherwise payable in respect of 1975-76 to be reduced or waived in certain circumstances. I shall not go any further on that. I merely indicate what the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  is endeavouring to do. The Treasurer is to be commended for these 2 Bills. It is a great pity that these 2 Bills, which the Opposition does not oppose, are part of the budgetary papers which the Opposition has decided to oppose. For the life of me I cannot understand why we as a Senate- I believe as a Senate as a whole- are being misused in this exercise. We are now on the merry-go-round. We have been there for three times round and it is quite possible that next week will be our fourth time round. I suggest to Opposition senators that they ought not let the Senate be misused; that they should see the need, the necessity, the responsibility to pass the Budget and let us proceed in allowing these 2 excellent Bills to have the fullest effect. At present they cannot proceed and again I cannot understand the Opposition's position. These Bills cannot proceed to become effectively effective- using a double emphasisuntil the Budget is through. To me this shows the rather odd position in which the Opposition has placed itself. In not objecting to the Budget as such, it has passed certain other measures, and is about to pass an environmental issue dealing with certain pollution that is occurring. The Opposition is prepared to pass these budgetary measures but it is not prepared to pass the Budget itself. Its criticism does not appear to be against the Budget; its opposition appears to be against issues that the Opposition considers to be for Government'. The time for decision as to whether or not the people support the present Government is at the time of a normal election and that, I would say, is towards the end of next year or perhaps the beginning of 1 977. 
I conclude by saying that these Bills and the associated literature ought to be scrutinised carefully by taxpayers. The accountants of a variety of firms no doubt will see the advantages of these Bills and will pass on those advantages to their clients. 
I direct to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community 
Development a question which is prompted by the word 'abandonment' used by  Senator Carrick  in the previous answer. Can the Minister say what has happened to the Great Barrier Reef Authority and what progress has been made to establish the consultative committee which supports such an Authority? 
This statement is worthy of some debate. I would like to voice a protest at the fact that it has been made in such a way and at such a time as do not permit a full debate. I do not accept the principle of the proposition put forward that it is to protect the integrity of members of Parliament. I do not think the integrity of members of Parliament has been affected by decisions made in the past as far as their remuneration and allowances or the facilities provided to them are concerned. I do not want to be hard on the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  but I believe that he is merely moving his responsibilities onto a tribunal. He should have been prepared to accept the responsibility that the previous Minister accepted and made those decisions, which I believe to have been just decisions. 
The Minister for Administrative Services is best able to assess the needs of parliamentarians. What we are doing here by this procedure is moving the responsibility onto a tribunal which I believe at this moment- it may be different in the future- is not properly equipped to assess the needs and entitlements of members of Parliament across the whole range of this statement. It is perhaps equipped as far as salaries, remunerations and actual office allowances are concerned, but I do not think that the Remuneration Tribunal is in a position to deal with the whole range of minor details in this statement nor do I think that it should be expected to accept the responsibility for doing so. There has been what I would term a little duck shoving. The reason why there is a need for more consideration of the statement possibly arises out of what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said, that is, that when the report of the Tribunal is brought down- and it will be a somewhat complex report covering a wide range of decisions- we can move only for a disallowance of the whole of it. 
-Let us see whether the Tribunal does or does not do so. If that is the case, of course, we are then completely at the mercy of the Tribunal. If I might say so, the Minister has put the members of this Parliament and the Parliament at the mercy not of himself but of the person who heads the Tribunal. I do not think that is a wise move to have made. I believe, and I have always believed, that the Parliament should make its own determinations and the members of Parliament should arrive at their own conclusions. From the taxpayers' point of view that possibly will result in an underassessment rather than an over-assessment of the entitlements. That has always been my view, even though I go along with having a Tribunal to take the actual salaries out of the area of political debate. But the wide ranging conditions referred to in this statement are conditions that should be subject to the decision of the Minister, having sought the advice of his colleagues in the Ministry and his colleagues in the Parliament. I think it is a convenient way to escape accepting responsibility to pass this matter on to the Tribunal, which is not properly equipped. 
If I may say so, the last report showed that the Tribunal did not properly understand the responsibility or duties of members of Parliament or senators. It did not properly understand the function of the committees in this place, lt did not properly understand the workings of a parliamentary office. We are now being asked to make submissions individually or to delegate one or two people to make submissions to the Tribunal. To me there is something wrong with that. My view is that this statement ought not to have been suddenly made in this place. I think the statement should have been allowed to have the consideration of all the Parties in this place in the Party rooms and that an opportunity should have been provided for considerable debate on it. I trust that the Minister will take into account what I have said about disallowance. Perhaps we ought to be looking at the Remuneration Tribunal Act to make certain, if this is to be the decision, that there is some flexibility on the part of senators and members of Parliament to amend, alter or make exclusions from the Tribunal's report without disallowing the whole of it. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Environment. I know the Minister has other responsibilities but surely that description is sufficient. I ask him again what progress has been made in setting up the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, especially in view of the questions that have been asked concerning the crown of thorns starfish problem. Is it a fact that the Queensland Government has already made its appointment to this Authority? If that is the case, is the delay in setting up the Authority the Minister's responsibility? I ask further: Is it a fact that no staff is being appointed to support the Authority? When one considers that position together with the position of the National Parks and Wildlife Service and the Australian Heritage Commission, does this not represent a complete retreat by the Government in 3 important areas? 
Since I was the one who called several quorums today, let me state my reason for calling them. It was not so much that the statement was late, although we made an objection to that. It was an important statement and we felt it should be debated. The manner in which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers ) imposed the gag was, to us, the offensive instrument which led us to call quorums. 1 want to make clear and definite what our response will be to such action. It will be this: Mr President, before you put the question that the Senate du now adjourn tonight I suggest that we have a quorum. I draw your attention to the state of the House.  (Quorum formed) 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I should like to ask you a supplementary question,  Mr President.  When you take into consideration the matter raised by  Senator Chaney,  will you also take into consideration the fact that the views which have been partly expressed by  Senator Chaney  in his question are not the views of the whole Senate? In particular, they are not my views. I ask you,  Mr President,  to take this into consideration because any such investigation on your part, not knowing that there are many honourable senators who disagree with  Senator Chaney  's views, may lead indirectly to some limitation of the freedom of the Press in this place. 
First of all I want to make the strong comment that the statement was brought into this place unexpectedly and, although the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has explained why, such explanation is now not acceptable because the rest of us have been gagged and not given an opportunity to express an opinion. I know that if the forms of this place as laid down were followed, eventually there would be a debate on this very important matter but, knowing just what importance the Government will place upon its own business, I think that it will be quite some time before this very important statement is debated in this place. This is one of the most important changes in policy that have been made in the area of employment. Unemployment is a form of employment- a form of industrial relations. The Leader of the Government endeavoured to say that this has nothing to do with industrial matters. It has very much to do with industrial matters. 
I am about to speak to the motion. The motion is that the debate bc made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. My purpose in rising is to oppose that motion. I believe that this matter should bc debated forthwith, and that brings me right into order, does it not, senator? 
-Of course it does. It brings me right into order because I am suggesting that this statement is so important that it should be debated now. I want my National Country Party colleagues, if I can call them that, to take special note of this paper because it will affect many of their supporters. It will affect the sons and daughters of their supporters in many of those areas in which people are finding great difficulty in maintaining industrial or employment activity. What this will mean to their supporters is that if this proposal is carried to its logical conclusion - 
I am debating the reason why this matter should be debated right now. I must state the reasons why I consider it to be important. The Government cannot delay the debate on this statement for another 1, 2, 3 or 4 weeks. It is important to people that it be debated now. It could have been debated if the Government had been prepared to give leave to speaker after speaker to rise to their feet. But the Government denied members of the Opposition the right to speak. For that reason we must now take the opportunity to impress upon the Government the reason why we oppose the motion. 
This matter takes me back to the days of direction of labour by the manpower officers in 1938. After all these years I did not think that I would see a similar proposition being brought before the Parliament or similar legislation being enacted that would lead to the direction of labour and to the intimidation of people. The concept which is revealed in the statement is intimidatory. I wonder what will happen when it is applied to the people of the Torres Strait Islands who are unable to find employment. If this policy and these guidelines are imposed upon them they will be forced to leave the remote areas and seek employment elsewhere. Their families will have to follow them. The statement contains the ingredients of very great hardship for very many people. The Leader of the Government in the Senate, more so than the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  expresses opposition to what we are doing here today and in fact expresses support for the principles of the statement. 
I will say that he does. He has never felt the power of the boss. I am not talking about all bosses; I am talking about the bosses who are endeavouring to obtain greater productivity by the discipline and fear of unemployment. To honourable senators opposite the only cheats are the cheats at the lower level; the only cheats in the community are the cheats who seek to obtain social security or unemployment payments. But the real cheats are at a higher level- those who avoid and evade tax. The sums involved amount not to one or two dollars but to millions of dollars. Let us not talk about cheats who deprive the Commissioner of Taxation of revenue. If the Government is looking for cheats it should look at those at the higher levels. There are ways and means by which the so-called dole cheats can be brought to account. They were undertaken by the previous Government. What the present Government has done now is to go to the furthest extreme. The Government has gone to the very extreme. This extreme will bring economic servitude to many. That might sound like an exaggeration; but this ministerial statement is an exaggeration. 
Work for a living? 
-No. Let me talk about that hoax of a scheme which was commenced by honourable senators opposite when they were in government and which caused great social distortion in the Torres Strait Islands. The reason honourable senators opposite set up that schemewas to give people money without the people earning that money. If honourable senators opposite want to refer to that scheme, let us say that that was a - 
No. The previous Liberal-National Country Party Government made them cheats and distorted the social conditions there. It was the great old Indian blanket trick all over again. The honourable senator knows it as well as I do. That was not the way in which the scheme should have been devised. I am saying now that this ministerial statement which has been presented is worthy of considered debate. It is worthy of our having some opportunity to look at the consequences of what the Government has brought down so that we can debate it thoroughly and completely. We are now forced to do it on an ad hoc basis. We are now forced to rise and speak in generalities. The Government has forced this upon us. We could have completed the debate on this matter quite easily and quite sensibly. We could have made our points. But, by refusing leave to speak, the Government has endeavoured to gag our opinion on this matter. We refuse to be gagged. 
I am most grateful to  Senator Cavanagh  for answering some of the distortions raised by  Senator Rae  and added to by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood).  I had formed the opinion that  Senator Greenwood  had changed his ways in that he was going to be far more restrained and more constructive in his contributions. But it seems to me that he does not want this Bill passed tonight because in the Committee stage we have engaged in a most unnecessary second reading debate on the legislation. 
Could I advise the Minister through you,  Mr Chairman,  that the words that he has used tonight will be quoted back to him within 12 months. He faces some very grave problems. Those problems are not the making of the previous Government; they are the making of previous governments including one of his own political persuasion. Those problems will be added to by his Government because it has not the answers. The mere fact that his Government entered the money market with a savings bond scheme offering on investment 10.5 per cent per annum for the first series and 9.5 per cent per annum for the second series has reversed the trend in interest rates. This has added considerably to the cost of housing. This is a matter to which the Minister will need to pay great attention. 
The Minister must consider also that there is a change in the requirement of home seekers in this country. People are seeking homes for rent. As  Senator Cavanagh  has said, if people purchase homes they are virtually only renting the darn things for the rest of their lives and are paying a darn sight more than they would if they were renting those homes. The desires of the Australian people are changing also. People today do not have the same type of acquisitiveness that we in our generation had which resulted in us going out, seeking a home and lavishing it with all sorts of luxuries. To do that today would cost almost $70,000- and for a modest home at that! The cost of buying the land, building a home on the property and equipping that home properly would involve an investment of almost $70,000. Young people these days will not accept a burden of that sort. For that reason the Minister should understand very carefully that when he consults with the State governments the view of the Australian Government ought to be very much to the fore. I believe that the view of the previous Government was correct. It believed that the proportion of houses built for rental purposes should be far higher than the Minister indicated tonight by way of answer to  Senator Rae  who posed this problem. 
-What the previous Government was suggesting was that a larger proportion of houses, more than 50 per cent, should be built for rental purposes. As this money is being provided by the Government for housing commission construction work, I say that the percentage of housing for rental purposes should reach close to 80 per cent and that financial institutions should provide the finance for private home building. 
Yes. I would have thought that money provided by the Australian Government to the States for housing purposes would have been for the purpose of assisting not so much what we might call the under-privileged but those persons who are on the lower rates of income. These people are seeking homes for rental purposes. At a later stage of life they may be able to afford something better, but at the moment they are seeking some form of accommodation of a reasonable standard at a reasonable rental. The Australian Government should insist that the States should follow a program of this type. 
In fairness to the previous Government, it must be remembered that certain States, especially Queensland, were determined to see that that Australian Government could not govern. The Queensland Government, particularly in the area of housing, denied the needs of its own citizens in order to frustrate the Australian Government. That fact ought to be made clear. The present Minister is in a much better position than his predecessor, although I believe that he will still have trouble with the Queensland Government. It has no concept of the need for initiative on the part of the Australian Government. The Queensland Government has drifted back into a sort of primitive federalism. I am sorry to see that the Minister by one or two of his comments may be assisting this approach to federalism. The Queensland Government and the Queensland Premier will frustrate any initiative by an Australian Government. The Queensland Premier calls Australian Government initiatives acts of centralism and his narrow approach will lead to continuing obstruction. It is the duty of the present Minister to see that that obstruction does not persist and that the needs of the citizens of Queensland shall be paramount instead of, shall we say, the satisfaction of the whims of the present Premier of Queensland. 
In courtesy to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  I state that I did not raise the point that I would be speaking. But since it is necessary in some way to indicate that co-operation is expected on this side from the Government when incorporations in  Hansard  are sought from time to time, I would like to attract your attention,  Mr President,  to the state of the House. If my action appears to be a lack of co-operation on my part, I state that it is in retaliation for a lack of co-operation on the part of the Government.  Mr President,  I draw your attention to the state of the House.  (Quorum formed) 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. I put to one side his insults about running ducks. I inform him that it is a term that may be directed towards him before the end of the session. Is it not a fact that by an action of the Government the Australian Broadcasting Commission is now $8m short of its needs for this year? Is it not correct that as a result of an action by the Government many programs have been cut and many men have been sacked? Will the Minister be careful to state that where permanent members of the ABC have not been dismissed, many men in the category of temporary employees or under contract have been sacked? 
I do not completely accept that explanation for giving me the privilege of asking a question. I intended to raise the question in another way because it may involve privilege, depending upon the answer which  Senator Withers  is prepared to give. I refer to the Remuneration Tribunal and to the investigation which it is now conducting into facilities for members of Parliament. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: How is it that submissions made by members of Parliament to the Tribunal are now being publicised and, in some cases, in a derogatory fashion? Does he not accept that those submissions would be confidential until such time as the Tribunal has brought down its report and that continual publication of such submissions can prejudice the Tribunal's findings? 
I admire  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's resilience in that having been a member of the Senate for some time and having occupied the most important position in this chamber- that of  President-  he has now been able to come back and enter into a debate on superphosphate of all things. In fact, I am a little astounded that I am on my feet on the same subject; but there are certain matters which I wish to raise and which are pertinent to the debate. Before commencing to do so I would like to say to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack that he really cannot excuse his own economic illiteracy by blaming  Senator Walsh.  I think  Senator Walsh  is a man who is quite well armed with economic knowledge, especially in relation to rural matters. I take it that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and other honourable senators opposite are not pleased with what he says because every time he has risen to his feet in the past to speak they have moved out of the chamber because they cannot bear the lash of his tongue. 
-It is not a matter of viciousness; it is a matter of putting a point of view effectively with considerable acumen. He may do it with considerable sharpness, but I think that  Senator Walters  will get used to that, as we will get used to some of the comments that she makes- like those she just made while she was on her feet. But, be that as it may, I think that we are prepared to speak as firmly as we think necessary in these debates and we expect honourable senators opposite to respond in a similar way without any acrimony. 
I have risen to speak in this debate to put a case that the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty presents considerable dangers. I think that some of the Government speakers have hinted that there are some dangers inherent in its reintroduction. The superphosphate bounty has become a political weapon. It is a weapon which is used by parties to encourage support in rural areas. It was a device which the National Country Party in particular used during the recent campaign to set the countryside against the cities, to set the rural worker against the city worker and to set the rural workers against the Labor Party. Its reintroduction without waiting for the Commission's report to my mind makes it again a political weapon. No matter what decision the Commission makes it will be very difficult to phase out the superphosphate bounty. To do so would be not politically acceptable to the supporters of the National Country Party and for that reason the National Country Party will use its parliamentary muscle, as it has done in the past, to prevent the Liberal Party from phasing out this bounty. 
I say to the National Country Party that it does the country, the farmer and the rural community a great disservice. The price of superphosphate, no matter what bounty is paid, will rise. The superphosphate price is supported in 2 ways. It is supported not only by the bounty which the Government proposes in this Bill- it is an open ended and increasing commitment which the Government is making- but also by the low cost production of superphosphate on Christmas Island. No honourable senator should move away from this debate without considering at what cost to the people of Christmas Island do we subsidise the Australian farmer. 
-Let me say this to the honourable senator: This responsibility which I am raising now is a responsibility which has been ignored by successive governments and is at present being ignored by this Government. However, during our term in government we managed to improve the conditions of production of superphosphate. An important part of the superphosphate question is that concerning Australia's source of the product. However undesirable the economic implications of this Bill they become more undesirable when we consider the exploitive methods employed by the Australian and New Zealand Governments to obtain the phosphate ore. 
Of particular interest is Christmas Island which on average produces about 44 per cent of the rock phosphate used by Australia. Let me give a bit of background on this. On 1 October 1958 under the Christmas Island Agreement Act the Island was made an Australian Territory and Australia secured exclusive rights to extract all phosphates and other minerals and to cut timber in, on and from Christmas Island. Under the Act no provision was made for the welfare of the inhabitants of the Island during the period of the rock phosphate mining. I am trying to inject here a human consideration for those people who are employed on Christmas Island on an indentured basis and who come from both Singapore and Malaysia. The result is that superphosphate at Christmas Island is $8.40 per ton free on board. Of course, there is freight on top of that. This means that superphosphate from Christmas Island is considerably cheaper than the superphosphate that is produced in this country by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and certainly cheaper than superphosphate that is supplied from Nauru. This is made possible, of course, by the low wages which are paid to those Asian workers whom we bring in to one of our own territories and employ at an exceptionally low rate. Since the establishment of what I believe was called the union of Christmas Island workers, the rate paid by agreement with the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission to the lowest paid worker has been and is still, as of January 1 976, a monthly salary of $ 1 10. 
-That exploitation of the Christmas Island people, among other things, enables Australia to purchase rock phosphate at $8.50 per tonne compared with that obtained from local sources, such as Broken Hill South Ltd, at $33 per tonne and from Nauru and Ocean Island at $54 per tonne. We have a considerable stockpile in Australia at the present time, but 1 600 000 tonnes of rock phosphate included in Australia's stockpile at January 1976 was purchased from Christmas Island for$8.5m, whereas the remaining 1 338 341 tonnes purchased from Nauru and Ocean Island cost $72m. The point I am trying to emphasise first is that the continuing exploitation of Christmas Island workers should cease. I make the further point that eventually the exploitation of those workers will cease. So we no longer depend upon a low price for phosphate rock from Christmas Island. Like the Nauruan people, the Christmas Island workers will receive some justice. 
It is my view that  sooner or  later this Parliament will have to set up an inquiry into the operation on Christmas Island, and in particular the activities of the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission and its relationship with the British Phosphate Commission, to see to what extent the people of Christmas Island are deprived and to what extent the British Phosphate Commission and the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission benefit. It is most necessary that this should be done; otherwise we are just like a bunch of sheep- just exposing our rumps to the wind and not facing the problem. We should be looking at the problem and seeing what is going to be the price of phosphate when the correct price is paid for phosphate, especially that from Christmas Island. We will see then that the use of superphosphate in Australia is quite uneconomical. It will continue to be uneconomical and we should be devising other methods. 
-I would say that that is what the farmers want, to answer the interjection from  Senator Tehan.  I think the farmers want this and I think the Government has done them a disservice by reintroducing the superphosphate bounty. Means of support other than the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty will be given to the rural industry. 
The other means of supporting rural industry, of course, is to see that the farmer gets markets for his produce. It seems to me that sufficient emphasis has not been placed on the diversification of markets, although the previous Government did make considerable attempts to diversify markets. If the quantity of our produce is going to grow we should diversify our markets, and the first priority is to obtain the market and to satisfy that market with high quality goods. There is no doubt that the rural community in Australia can produce high quality goods. It seems to be a failure on the part of the distribution community and on the part of the governments in this country to find markets which will absorb the goods. No matter what we are producing, whether it happens to be apples and pears, whether it happens to be wine, whether it happens to be meat, or whether it happens to be wool, we can produce the quality and we can produce the quantity, but we fail to find the markets. 
In any case, having found the markets- I am talking about how the rural community can be assisted- it is then up to government to see that a fair price is received by the producer for his goods.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack touched on that point. He was not prepared to say who the robbers were. He hinted that there was robbery between the production and the consumption of the goods. 
-The beef export levy has been removed at the present time. The levy which will be imposed on the slaughter of cattle and of other beasts in Australia is a necessary impost. I trust that the Government will impose it. I hope it does not back away from the levy. The producer of beef will benefit because the levy will lead to in-depth research which is required to protect our herds from exotic diseases. It will not only protect our herds but also will eradicate brucellosis and tuberculosis. I have another word of warning. Unless brucellosis is eradicated from our herds before it is eradicated from herds in the United States we will find that the United States will close its markets to our meat. This is a very wide and complex question. It needs to be considered carefully by all who are interested in the problem of our rural economy, which is tied in with the whole economy. 
I was asked how the farmer could be assisted. I say that he can be assisted in these directions: Markets, fair price and protection of the industry against the sudden closure of the markets. He cannot be helped by the imposition of the superphosphate bounty. I say that the bounty was withdrawn too sharply and that it should have been phased out. But that is no argument for its reintroduction. It should have been phased out. The bounty on superphosphate should have been directed in such a way that the small farmer who needed it or the farmer of new land who needed it was able to receive assistance. But this assistance should not have been by way of bounty because investigation will show that the companies which produce the phosphate seem to benefit mostly from the bounty. The direction of support for superphosphate should have been by way of taxation allowance up to a certain quantity. This would have assisted farmers up to a certain level but not beyond. Our greatest objection to the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty is that the big users, the big graziers and pastoral companies, are the ones who benefit. 
-Apparently, in the face of the superphosphate bounty, they are supposed to be equal. They are not equal. The small farmer and the farmer on new land need more assistance than the man at the top. The imposition of the superphosphate bounty is merely a political act on the part of the Government to satisfy a promise which it made and which gave it added support in the rural areas. This added support led to the extravagant result of 13 December. 
At the present time it is in the hands of the Industries Assistance Commission. I am saying that the superphosphate bounty should not have been reintroduced until the report was completed. All sorts of complications have arisen with this bounty. I put it to honourable senators that one cannot use against the proper imposition of a bounty or subsidy the argument of any minor abuse. But in the case of the superphosphate bounty the norm is overuse and abuse rather than proper use. In Queensland they say that not much superphosphate is used and not much bounty attracted. 
It is a different economy. There is a greater use of nitrogenous fertilisers. We will debate that matter later. There does not seem to be a need for the superphosphate except on the part of the big land developers and subdividers. During the last election campaign I made an investigation of who used superphosphate in the large electorate of Fisher, a rural electorate. I found that Alfred Grant Pty Ltd was the greatest user of superphosphate- in fact, perhaps the only user of superphosphate. What was the purpose of the use of superphosphate by Alfred Grant on a property called Sippy Downs? It was to improve country that should not have been improved and which having undergone tests by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, was found to be deficient or country that could not economically be developed. It was poor country. But Alfred Grant, in an attempt to subdivide this land and to make a quick profit on the subdivision, used huge quantities of superphosphate on this 5 000 acre property for no other purpose that to improve the look of the land for the purpose of subdivision and sale. 
The only part of this land that has been employed is a subdivision for residential purposes and for no other use. If one looks down the list of superphosphate users- leaving the Frasers and the others out of it- one will see that the major users of superphosphate are development companies. Some of these development companies are not rural development companies. They are in business to make a quick quid out of some person in the city who has earned substantial income from a profession and is looking for a tax evasion gimmick by buying land 100, 150 or 250 miles, say, from the city of Brisbane. 
-He is just on his way out. 
Yes, bad luck. I will tell the honourable senator why. 
He is not making a fortune. All I am saying is that there was a misuse of the superphosphate bounty to improve this wallum country which was not worth improving to encourage, shall we say, city suckers to enter the rural industry. Certainly the project came unstuck but in the meantime a substantial amount of taxpayers' money was used to improve this land which was not worth improving. There was abuse after abuse after abuse of a bounty which I believe was well intentioned but which I believe was not properly researched. There are many who say- one unfortunate person was a member of a commission and unwisely made some statements in public before the commission came out - 
But one has to be careful what questions one answers. In this particular case the question required an answer which indicated an opinion or a state of mind. Let us make it clear that that person's qualifications and that person's opinion were valid. There are some dangers in the over use of superphosphate. I have said that there is one danger- that the price of superphosphate will become so great that an open-ended commitment will be undertaken by the Government to provide further moneys. Millions of dollars will follow millions of dollars in support of this bounty because it is now a political consideration, not an economic consideration. One will see that when it comes close to election time, when it comes to making policy statements, when it comes to outlining the platform of the Liberal and National Country parties we will find that the superphosphate bounty will be promised again. I feel this is to the disadvantage of those who use superphosphate now to be sucked into the continual use of superphosphate by increased bounty. I should like to go back to the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission. I go back to that because of a question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, which I believe should have been answered. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I suppose I would have the hide to call a quorum on myself, but I will not do so. During the suspension of the sitting for dinner, I reflected that in this debate on the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill so much dust has been scattered in this chamber over the last day or so that we could accelerate organic farming and do away with the need for superphosphate. That is good advice to the farming community of Australia. The point I was making earlier was that there should be a realisation on the part of members of the farming community that they cannot depend on superphosphate additives for much longer because of the rising cost of such additives. They should look to more efficient means of farming in this country. It is quite extraordinary, both economically and otherwise, to use superphosphate to improve lands which are not worthy of improvement, especially when we are producing to such glut proportions. We should not be encouraging the overuse of these lands. We should not be encouraging over production on these lands by the use of superphosphate. The damage, I believe, can be considerable. For that reason, I again say that the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty is not in the best interests of the rural community. There should be other means of support for the rural community. No one denies- I do not deny- that such support should be given to the rural community. 
I should like now to refer again to the point I was making earlier about the production of superphosphate from Christmas Island. I think I made the point- I make it again- that Australian rural industry is benefiting from a further $45 m in the way of indirect subsidy on the production of superphosphate from Christmas Island- a production which is based upon the exploitation of labour from Singapore and Malaysia. It would be interesting to have an investigation of this production, for a variety of reasons. One of those reasons would be to anticipate any shock which the rural community may suffer as a result of the increase in the price of superphosphate from this area because of, say, improvements in the conditions of the workers producing the superphosphate or some other reason. 
What tempts me to suggest that there ought to be an investigation by this Parliament, by means of a special committee, of the production of phosphate by the British Phosphate Commissioners and the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission is that under the Christmas Island Agreement Act a special fund was set up for the purpose of accumulating moneys to meet obligations to the inhabitants of the Island as a consequence of the cessation of the phosphate industry which is estimated- if there is no increase in the rate of production on the Island- to take place in about 20 years time. It could take place even sooner. The Christmas Island Phosphate Commission is expected to transfer to this fund annually an amount per ton of phosphate exported. This amount is to be determined by the Australian and New Zealand Governments. It would be interesting to know the present financial standing of the fund. Perhaps the appropriate Minister can help in this regard. Perhaps the extraordinarily low price paid for the Christmas Island phosphate, which is purchased effectively at cost, and the resulting low profits for the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission have been and will be used to justify the lower wages paid to the miners and the comparatively low levels of the fund. 
Again I voice my opposition to that aspect of Christmas Island phosphate mining. In 1973 a survey revealed that 928 of some 3000 inhabitants of Christmas Island were on 3-year contracts. Those were not normal contracts. They were indentured contracts. I find that abhorrent. I have found it abhorrent for some time. I have expressed that view before and I express it again. These inhabitants included 714 Chinese people from Malaysia and Singapore, 400 Malays and 1 1 5 Indonesians. I reject the importation of cheap labour from overseas as far as Australia proper is concerned; so do we all. Why, then, do we allow this to happen on Christmas Island? That is the question I raise. It should be raised again and again. If we are to press the question and if we are to give wage justice to these people, then the price of superphosphate most certainly will rise. That will mean, if the Government makes an open-ended commitment on this bounty, an increase in the bounty to maintain a lower price for superphosphate in Australia. In summing up - 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the Minister representing the Treasurer and may I refer to the lunatic economic policies of this Government. Considering the answer the Leader of the Government gave to the question asked by  Senator Brown,  is it not a fact that the $3,000 grant being made for home building will immediately add $3,000 to the cost of a home. Is it also a fact that in many cases this grant will postpone the building of homes for 3 years, thus setting back the building industry even further? Will he not agree that this is lunatic economic policy and a policy that ought to be changed quickly? 
-I seek leave to make a few comments on the statement by  Senator Davidson. 
First, as past Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, I thank members of the Committee for the letter which they sent me acknowledging my services to the former Committee. Certain information that has been circulating makes it even more important that the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts should give priority to its reference on the Australia Council. By giving priority to that reference the Committee perhaps will be able to put to rest some of the rumours that are circulating concerning the financial activities of the Council and the manner in which the boards have carried out their responsibilities. 
In particular I ask the Committee to quickly seek a reference to the Auditor-General's Department in regard to correspondence between the Australia Council and the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association which covers employees of the Council. I think it is necessary for the Committee to be aware of such correspondence, by a reference to the Auditor-General's Department, in order to support what I say. The reference of the Australia Council should be given priority. I am pleased to see that the Committee is again under the Chairmanship of  Senator Davidson  and I am certain that the Committee will carry out diligently and well all the reference to which  Senator Davidson  has referred. 
I take the opportunity to speak briefly on the Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill 1976 to give both Government senators and Opposition senators who wish to speak on this Bill the opportunity to catch up with the rate at which the business of the Senate has proceeded. Over the past few minutes it has accelerated beyond our expectations. We are now debating the motion for the second reading of this money Bill. It has been brought to our notice by an irate wheat farmer that we have debated these wheat Bills for more than a week and have not mentioned one word about wheat. Such people really do not understand the system. They do not understand that in the debate on the motion for the first reading of these money Bills it is possible for any honourable senator to speak on any matter which is relevant or irrelevant to the subject of wheat. Up to this point we have spoken on matters that are quite irrelevant to the subject of wheat, and we need to apologise to that irate wheat farmer and explain to him just why that is so. 
I am not part of what is termed the rural rump of the Labor Party. I have certain basic feelings concerning rural industry. There are basic positions which I take from time to time in support of the Party. The Labor Party has a good record in regard to its rural policy in spite of the attempts by the Government when in opposition to decry us and to define us a sectional Party. The attack on the Labor Party in recent months has been quite unfair, especially the attempt to define it as a sectional Party. The Australian Labor Party has, I think, represented the rural interests far more effectively in its 3 years in office than did previous governments in 23 years. I am tempted to go on and speak further on this matter but I have the feeling that the debate can now proceed. I think that the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  may wish to make a statement, and perhaps some other honourable senators may wish to contribute to the debate. 
I think that it would have been wiser if the Government had indicated to us that it intended to take this course and to report progress. Surely  Senator Wright  has the ability- he showed it when he was on his feet- to continue the investigation tonight and not to delay this Bill any further. Earlier we expressed the opinion that this Bill should go through as quickly as possible. In fact, many honourable senators on our side of the chamber who wished to speak on this Bill did not do so because of the desire to have the legislation dealt with quickly. The course of reporting progress will mean that this Bill will not be debated further until tomorrow. Other business might intrude and perhaps we might lose another day before we deal with this legislation. I think that if we had been asked for our advice we would have suggested that  Senator Wright  should have been given sufficient time at the Committee stage to present his case in which I was very interested. I feel that he could have completed his case tonight. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement on the same matter. 
-The Opposition understood the difficulties the Government was facing in regard to this Estimates Committee. We on this side have agreed for it to meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow on the understanding that it should not meet beyond 10.30 a.m. and that the Committee adjourn at that time in order to allow our Australian Labor Party members sitting on it to attend our Party meeting. It is agreed that, if necessary, the Committee will meet again later in the day at the convenience of the Government. 
I ask a short question of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. What has happened to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority? Has any progress been made? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present financial status of the special fund referred to in paragraphs 3 to 9 inclusive of Article 6 in the Schedule to the Christmas Island Agreement Act 1 958- 1 973. 
What proportion, if any, of the special fund does the Government under the powers assigned to it in paragraphs 7 and 8, intend to allocate to discharging Australia's obligation towards the inhabitants of the Island when the time comes. 
Will the Government, if the Government of New Zealand is agreeable, be prepared to amend the Act so that moneys may be withdrawn from the fund prior to exhaustion of the phosphate or the cessation of the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission as a functioning body, whichever is the later, so that the Australian Government may begin phasing out the phosphate industry which is estimated to collapse in approximately 20 years time. 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australian are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $21 million, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia's commitment to Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNF, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 28 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas from 1 October, 1974 the National Employmem and Training System came into operation; 
And that at that time the then Government agreed that widow pensioners and recipients of Supporting Mothers Benefit will be in no way disadvantaged' under the National Employment and Training System; 
And that 'for all trainees over 2 1 years and Junior trainees with dependants a full-time training allowance equivalent to the average adult male award wage, which will be adjusted quarterly- at the present time approximately $90 per week', is to be provided; 
And that there is strong objection to the reduction in training allowance to trainees under the National Employment and Training System, to be effective from 1 April, 1 976, as this places these trainees at considerable financial disadvantage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Members in the Senate assembled will take the most urgent steps to readjust the payments under the National Employment and Training System so that they are equivalent to the average adult male award wage. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. I draw the attention of the Minister to the uranium deposit recently discovered near Georgetown in north Queensland. Is the Minister aware that the Australian company involved in this venture is controlled by ANZ through its subsidiary, Stocks and Holdings Ltd. Is the Minister aware that 95 per cent of ANZ shareholders are British residents? Does not the Minister therefore agree that the Australian equity requirements for the development of uranium deposits have not been met in this instance? Will the Minister ascertain whether the companies involved are seeking local participation? If not, what steps will the Government take to restrict the development of this deposit in the meantime? 
Given the repeated protestations of the Minister for Education that education will not be a victim of the Government's economy cuts, can he give an undertaking that the Government is prepared to continue the Labor Government's policy of Commonwealth funding of tertiary education fees? In particular, can the Minister deny that the Government has recently considered abolishing Commonwealth funding for all except first degrees? Is the Minister prepared to state his own unequivocal support for the Commonwealth funding of all tertiary fees as the key concept of equality of educational opportunity for all, irrespective of personal or parental income? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I seek leave to make a short statement on the same matter. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Since the statement was put down by  Senator Cotton  tonight there have been requests from honourable senators on this side of the chamber to take part in the debate on that statement, and the reason why they want to do so is obvious. When this matter is being considered, taking all these other things that have been said into consideration, perhaps the leaders could consider cutting down the time for which each honourable senator can speak on Tuesday. Normally it would be an hour. During the whole of the cognate debate we may be able to confine ourselves to speak for 20 minutes each rather than have the full time available to us. I think that it would be wise to allow as many honourable senators as possible to participate in the debate on this far reaching and rather disastrous statement that has been put down tonight. 

 -Mr President, I too wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. My personal explanation follows on what  Senator Grimes  had to say. In fact, I was the person who interjected. If you recall,  Mr President,  I was alongside  Senator Grimes  at the time. It would be quite unfair if a question asked of and answered by  Senator Carrick  were to go to air with the giveaway or throwaway insult which he directed towards  Senator Grimes.  The purpose of my interjection to which possibly  Senator Carrick  could have responded more suitably was that the National Line is in difficulties and that one of the reasons for those difficulties, as I interjected, was that in Queensland the National Line is not allowed to operate intrastate. That was my interjection when  Senator Carrick  insulted  Senator Grimes.  It was an insult, I believe. I put it to you,  Mr President,  that as a result of these personal explanations that question and answer should not go to air in the re-broadcast this evening of Senate question time. 
May I speak to that? 
May I make a personal explanation then? 

 Senator GEORGES (Queensland)-I point out in respect of what I have had to say that I could not raise it by way of taking a point of order at the time because there was no basis under the Standing Orders to take such a point of order. It could only - 
It has not stopped me in the past, but as a result of what has happened in the past I have learnt my lesson. I realise now that I must raise these matters at the end of question time by way of a personal explanation.  Mr President,  I ask you to reflect on what I say and to consider carefully that the question and the throwaway by  Senator Carrick  in answering the question were a grave reflection on  Senator Grimes,  especially in his own State. For that reason I submit that having heard the personal explanation from  Senator Grimes  and having accepted my responsibility for the interjection you perhaps should rule that the question and answer should not go to air in the re-broadcast of proceedings at question time. 
-May I break through our isolationism for a moment and ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs to give an explanation to the Senate of the delay in Australia s response to the recent urgent request of the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth for financial or technical assistance to Mozambique to assist that Commonwealth country with the economic consequences of closing its border with Rhodesia? In view of the statement of the Secretary-General earlier this week in Canberra that he would be surprised and disappointed if Australia did not contribute to special technical assistance programs for Mozambique, can the Minister say whether Australia has yet responded to the request from the Commonwealth fund for technical assistance and co-operation? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 

 - Mr President, responding to those remarks, I ask the Government to notice that we have allowed the first reading of a money Bill to go through without debate. That is some indication of the co-operation that the Government may expect next week. 
Yes, and I am a little concerned that we may accept something here which may limit our questioning in the future during debates on the Estimates and in particular in the Committee of the Whole. If there happens to be a question on the notice paper concerning a subject on which information is being sought we should give preference to that question and the honourable senator who asked it and perhaps not give the required information to another honourable senator who may also be seeking it until the first honourable senator is given it. I think that it would be fair enough to acknowledge that the question is already on the notice paper and that the Minister has an answer which the Minister will give to the honourable senator who happens to be asking for the information in the Committee of the Whole while acknowledging that the information is being given in response to a question previously placed on the notice paper. But surely we are not going to fall into the situation, especially as we now have a couple of honourable senators who are prolific questioners insofar as questions on notice are concerned, where, because a question is on notice, no information is going to be given until the honourable senator who has placed a question on the relevant subject on the notice paper is given an answer to it. I think that the courteous thing to do would be to acknowledge the asking of the question and to give the answer at the appropriate time, and this happens to be it. 
-In case we are creating some sort of precedent here, 1 draw the Committee's attention to a decision of the Committee of the Whole, which is reported at page 827 of Senate Journal record No. 142 of 2 December 1971. The following appears in the record: 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  by leave, moved- That the Committee is of the opinion that, unless the Parliament has expressly provided otherwise, there is no area of expenditure - 
And I take it of no expenditure-  of public funds by Statutory Authorities which cannot be examined by Parliament or its Committees, and in this regard confirms the opinion expressed in the Report to the Senate by Estimates Committee B . . . 
Actually, I think the decision was made at one stage in this place that we could examine the whole range of expenditure provided for in an appropriation and move away from the strict limits of the items which for the time being might be laid down in the Estimates. I ask you to recall,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  the frustrations that we in Government felt last year when the Estimates came in for most thorough scrutiny by members of the then Opposition. On one occasion the Estimates Committee of which I was  Chairman  was virtually investigating the finer detail of the day-to-day running of departments. Then Opposition members insisted that that was their right. I should say that  Senator McLaren  had the right to insist also under the previous rulings and decisions of this chamber and on the basis of that previous example set by some of those who are now in government. 
It took  Senator Wright  to inject some heat and perhaps excitement into the debate, which led to an extra  speaker  from our side speaking in the debate and which now constrains me to make my most brilliant speech in the space of 2 minutes. I believe also that  Senator McLaren  has a point of explanation to make in the debate. I wish to say a few words on behalf of the apple growers of Stanthorpe. For some time I have been given an interest in this area by certain representations made by the apple growers of Stanthorpe. As a result, I arrived at the conclusion that the greatest enemies of the stability of the apple and pear industry in Australia are the farmers themselves. The failure to agree to a proper marketing procedure within Australia is creating difficulties within the industry. 
I would like the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  to foreshadow when we are likely to see the very important legislation which will assist this industry within 
Australia. I refer to legislation which will establish the apple and pear marketing corporation, which would have been established many months ago if it had not been for the division within the industry which set the Stanthorpe apple grower against the Tasmanian apple grower. I have found that in this industry, as well as in the dairy industry, the internal divisions prevent those marketing and export reforms that the industry needs. I would have liked to indicate to  Senator Wright,  who I believe is to be one of the last of the great imperialists, and to his supporter,  Senator Walters,  that, if the Liberal and National Country Parties in opposition and in government had accepted that Great Britain would enter the European Common Market and had reorganised themselves and the industries which they support, this industry that we are debating tonight would not be in the difficulties it is in at the present time. Costs are going up. But costs are not going up only in Australia. They also are going up overseas. It is the barriers which have been set up against Australian industry by the European Common Market which have to be faced. 
If I may say so, New Zealand industries accepted that Britain would enter the European Common Market and they adjusted to that. In Australia, of course, the Government plays politics with our industries. The Government does not recognise those people who take advantage of it, especially the shipping conferences. I am prepared to say that  Senator Wright  and  Senator Walters  would not support taking the opportunity to use Russian vessels, which offer cheaper freight rates, because there would be something wrong in Australian apples being transported in Red ships. I believe that they would even object to that. I find myself being enticed away from my original resolution to speak for only 2 minutes. I notice that the Government Whip has given me the gong, and I conclude my remarks. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and follows upon the question asked previously about illegal Chilean immigrants. I ask the Minister to consider the consequences which may flow to the Chileans if they are deported back to Chile. Will she advise the Minister for Immigration that those consequences could be so severe as to affect the liberty and lives of the people concerned? Will the Minister make representations seeking some allowance  For these  people? Will the Minister seek to inform them that they may have a right to amnesty or to political refuge in this country? Will the Minister consider at least delaying any deportation until such time as those who wish to support these people may do so by representation to the Minister? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, follows on from a question which was asked of that Minister by  Senator Knight.  I refer to the same article in the  Canberra Times  to which  Senator Knight  referred. It stated that  Mr Woolcott,  the Ambassador to Indonesia, had advised the Australian Government against any public acknowledgment of the fact that Indonesia had troops in East Timor at the end of October. Is it not a fact that similar advice was passed to the caretaker Prime Minister and caretaker Minister for Foreign Affairs on and after 1 1 November? Is it a fact that in spite of this knowledge the caretaker Prime Minister told a  Four Corners  interview on 15 November that he did not see a major blow up occurring in the Timor area? In spite of the knowledge which the Government had at that time, no protest was lodged by the caretaker Government after the publicised invasion of early December. Is it not a fair conclusion to draw that this Government must share equal responsibility for the tragic mess that has occurred and is continuing to occur in Timor? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs inform the Senate whether transit facilities have been refused to Fijians, Indians and Pakistanis in Australia in recent weeks and whether a similar decision is imminent in respect of Chileans desiring to travel to another country through Australia? Can the Minister give any reason for such an arbitrary ruling which, on the evidence available, seems to indicate blatant racism? Is the Minister able to confirm that the Department of Foreign Affairs is attempting to bring some pressure to bear on the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on this issue, realising, of course, that such discrimination in the application of our immigration laws must bring Australia into disrepute in our own region? 
The statement which has been tabled is of such importance that it needs to be examined and thoroughly debated. I do not doubt that honourable senators on both sides of the chamber would like the opportunity to do so. The statement means that certain procedures which will alter the administration of the whole area of the arts will now be put into effect. I do not say that this is not necessary. As a member and a former  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, the Committee which is now chaired by  Senator Davidson,  I was very much concerned about the misuse and mismanagement which was becoming evident at regular periods in the administration ofthe funds which the Australian Parliament made available to the people of Australia for their cultural advancement and benefit. What makes me angry is that the abuse of this great concept has now led to its re-examination. 
It has been a matter of concern to me that certain persons within the Australia Council, as it is now called, were responsible for mismanagement, nepotism and patronage which brought the way in which funds in this area were used into disrepute. When that happens the danger from above is that the availability and expenditure of moneys for the whole area of the arts becomes limited. My view is that this Parliament must bring to account those people who misuse public moneys in this way and bring the whole area of the arts into discredit. It is my experience that members of the Australia Council have been active lobbyists of members of this Parliament and I resent this. I resented it when I was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. I also resented it when, as a member of an Estimates Committee, people representing the arts area- whether they represented the National Gallery or the Australia Council- held the view that we were here merely to sign the cheques and that we had no further understanding of or needed to take any further interest or participation in the arts. 
I wish to make it clear that on the various committees of which I will be a member I will be looking very closely at the past extravagances of bodies such as the Australia Council to make certain that they do not occur in the future. The members of the Australia Council do not realise the damage which they have caused through their extravagances. It seems to me to be quite wrong that the Australia Council could set itself up in magnificent and luxurious offices in the very centre of Sydney and expend such large sums of money in distributing the funds made available to it to those who needed those funds for the cultural advancement of Australia. For that reason I believe that some improvements are provided for in this statement. I agree with my colleague  Senator Button  when he says that we should deal with this area without any party divisions in a bipartisan way, to ensure that what is intended by the expenditure of these funds is carried out. No person should use the funds for his own personal advancement or for the advancement of his friends. 
I want to refer briefly to another important statement that has been put down in the dying stages of this session, which makes it impossible for honourable senators on both sides of the chamber to contribute to the debate to the extent that this statement deserves. However, I should like to draw a matter to the attention ofthe Minister for Science  (Senator Webster).  There have been 3 very worthwhile projects of research mentioned in the Minister's statement but nowhere does the statement mention another area of very worthwhile research that is necessary for the protection of the Great Barrier Reef, that is the starfish research program. Honourable senators will remember that the Government disbanded the joint committee which was inquiring into the starfish problem- the committee that was established to allocate research grants to scholars for the investigation of some means by which the starfish problem could be brought under control or solved. That committee has been disbanded. This was an area of research that was most necessary and we argued that insufficient moneys were being made available under the previous scheme, possibly because of the reluctance of the Queensland Government, which said that there was no problem and therefore no money ought to be spent on it. 
That committee no longer exists. With the disbandment of that committee allocations for research in that very necessary area have disappeared also. I ask the Minister to take into consideration, now that that scheme has been disbanded, taking up that research under the program outlined in his statement. We have withheld debate on the rather questionable report that the starfish committee brought down. There has been no debate. I know that the Minister has sought advice from experts in the field and possibly will be making a statement. 1 am merely making an appeal at this point that research in the starfish area should come under this allocation and that the scientists who are responsible for the allocation of funds should direct their attention to the problems that face that huge and unique eco-system off the north-west coast of Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 

 -Mr President, I ask for leave to move a motion for the tabling of the evidence of the Senate Select Committee on the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that in 1974 the Queensland Government sponsored an extensive research survey of the commercial fishing potential of the Torres Strait area at a cost of more than $250,000? Did the Queensland Government have this report classified as confidential in a deliberate attempt to conceal important information on the Torres Strait area at a time when the border question was under consideration? Is the Fisheries Division of the Australian Department of Primary Industry now engaged on a similar study? Is this study being unreasonably hampered by the nonavailability of the Queensland results? Will the Minister, in the interests of economy, suggest to his Queensland counterpart that the results of the State survey be made available to those with a legitimate research interest in the fisheries potential of the Torres Strait islands area? 

 -Mr President, I rise primarily to support the motion of condolence on the death of former  Senator Whiteside  but before doing so I should like to add to the tributes paid to former  Senator Tom  Bull. It has been said that  Senator Bull  was tolerant and I must testify to that tolerance. During his chairmanship I was perhaps one of the turbulent members to whom  Senator Mulvihill  referred. I remember the day that  Senator Tom  Bull took me aside and suggested that aggressiveness was not what achieved most in this place, and I believe him to have been right. He had great gentleness and great tolerance. To his family I express my sympathy and condolences. 
As a Queenslander I must remind the Senate of George Whiteside, a man who had no aspirations to greatness but who, in his time, achieved much for his fellows. He was for many years- I think some 20 to 24 years- secretary of one of the more important unions in Queensland, the Federated Engine Drivers' and Firemen's Association. He fulfilled that responsibility very well indeed because it led to his appointment as  President  of the Labor Party in Queensland and to his delegation to the National Conference of the Labor Party and to the National Executive. The Australian Labor Party holds these positions in high regard and  Senator Whiteside  filled them very well. He also showed some courage in being an ardent follower and supporter of Australian Rules in the very Rugby State of Queensland and for that he must bie commended. He was a patron of the Queensland Australian Football League from 1 973 until the time of his death. Might I say that we were told of his death in a few words on the sporting pages of Queensland 's newspapers. I think that he was somewhat overlooked. Today we take the opportunity to make up for that lack of recognition and appreciation by the media in Queensland. The former  Senator Whiteside  had a great regard for young people. During his lifetime he endeavoured to initiate schemes for their welfare. For those reasons, we regret his passing and give sympathy to his relatives.. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that the Queensland Government sponsored an extensive research survey qf the commercial fishing potential of the Torres Strait area in 1974 at a cost of more than $250,000. 
Did the Queensland Government have this report classified as confidential in a deliberate attempt to conceal important information on the Torres Strait area at a time when the border question was under consideration. 
Is the Fisheries Division of the Australian Department of Primary Industry now engaged on a similar study; if so, is this study being unreasonably hampered by the nonavailability of the Queensland results. 
Would the Minister be prepared, in the interests of economy, to suggest to his Queensland counterpart that the State survey results be made available to those with a legitimate research interest in the fisheries potential of the Torres Strait. 
-I apologise to  Senator Chaney  for the misunderstanding. If I placed him in an embarrassing position, it was without any deliberation on my part. My understanding of the position concerning debates on urgency motions while I have been a member of the Senate is that they are not always gagged or brought to, a decision. On many occasions in the past urgency motions have been allowed to be talked out. That is really the point of disagreement. We did not come to an exact arrangement. For that reason I was caught unexpectedly when  Senator Messner  moved the gag. My understanding was that  Senator Bishop  would have some time in which to speak. I gave that indication to  Senator Bishop.  I am somewhat disturbed, however, that when the gag was moved it was moved so unexpectedly that we did not ask for a division on it. You,  Mr President,  were caught in the very awkward situation of there being indecision on our part as to whether we wanted to divide. 
I make it clear to the Senate that whenever the gag is moved we will oppose it. The gag has been used very seldom in this place, although since this Government came to office with the numbers in the Senate it has applied the gag on quite a number of occasions. Our view of the matter is that the gag must always be opposed. It is a device that prevents people from speaking. On this occasion it was a device that prevented  Senator Bishop  from speaking. It would have been far more advantageous to the discussion if the debate had been allowed to expire. That was my understanding of the matter. 
I present the following petition from 98 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That distress is being caused to social security recipients by the delay in adjusting pensions to the Consumer Price Index months after goods and services have risen, and that many medicators, formerly a pharmaceutical benefit, must now be paid for. 
In addition. State Housing Authority waiting lists for low rental dwellings for pensioners become never less, and funeral costs increase ever greater. 
Your petitioners call on the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Adjust social security payments instantly and automatically on announcement of increases in the quarterly Consumer Price Index. 
Restore pharmaceutical benefits deleted from the free list. 
The States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974, eroded by inflation, be updated and increased to overcome the back-log. 
The funeral benefit be updated to 60 per cent of a reasonable funeral cost. This benefit, when introduced in 1943 at 200 shillings ($20.00), was seven times the pension at that time of 27 shillings ($2.70) per week, or more than twice the basic wage of 97 shillings ($9.70). 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 62 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of Queensland respectfully showeth: 
That Medibank was established to bring to every Australian the opportunity to attend the doctor of his or her own choice and to provide hospital insurance to all Australians irrespective of their means; 
That Medibank provides substantial financial assistance to the free hospital system in Queensland which has never been given under any previous government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should ensure that the agreements entered into between the Commonwealth and the State of Queensland should be maintained and that Medibank should not be altered either in cost or complexity so that it may no longer be available to all people of Australia as a universal health insurance scheme. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a brief question. Will school leavers who finish school in November and December of this year and who are unable to find suitable employment be paid the unemployment benefit on their application after the 7 days' waiting period? If not, what will be the period of delay and what will be the reason for the delay? 
I wish to seek a little information and perhaps some clarity on this Fund. As  Senator Wriedt  has said, our Party does not oppose the Fund. In fact, we support it with some enthusiasm. But I have one or two reservations. I want to know whether the intention is that this Fund will become a permanent arrangement. That seems to be the case from what the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  has said. I ask further whether the Fund is to maintain and assist or influence trading and financial relations between the major countries? If that is the case, could it not be interpreted that the Fund is a sort of club for wealthy countries which may in a way continue the rather inequitable arrangements that exist between the developed countries and the under-developed countries. 
Let me illustrate what I am trying to arrive at. Here we have a Fund being established. In what way is it different essentially from the International Monetary Fund? It is necessary to project the Fund in the way in which it has been projected in this Bill when the International Monetary Fund is there to carry out, shall we say, assistance to under-developed countries? Will this Fund in some way inhibit the International Monetary Fund? I return to my reservation: I fear that this is co-operation between essentially wealthy countries for their own protection. It arises out of the problem with the Oil Producing and Exporting Countries which increased their oil prices and formed some sort of cartel to protect the oil-producing countries. In this rather vague way I ask the Minister exactly what the Fund intends to do. Does it intend to continue; is it necessary for it to continue when we have the International Monetary Fund? Is it wise for Australia to be supporting a Fund among the developed countries, perhaps to the disadvantage of the less developed countries? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education. It follows on from a question asked by  Senator Keeffe  and shares his concern about the medical school which was proposed to be established at the James Cook University of North Queensland. When the Minister considers the matter, will he take into consideration the fact that, unless the school is established, specialised and qualified staff presently being attracted to Townsville by the prospect of this school will go elsewhere? Will he also consider that these specialists will be lost to North Queensland if the medical school does not eventuate. I also ask the Minister to insist that the Queensland Government stop playing politics with the situation and announce immediately when and where the school will be built? 
I should like to speak to the motion. As a past member and past chairman of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts I regret that the Committee has decided not to continue with the Australia Council reference. It is my belief that there is stil much amiss in that area and that there should be further investigation of some serious allegations which have been made against the Australia Council and some of its prominent members. No doubt the Committee did deliberate on this. It has come to its conclusion. But may I say to the Senate that the announcement now that the Committee does not intend to proceed with the reference which the Senate gave to the Committee places a responsibility on members of the Senate to scrutinise closely during the examination of the Estimates of the Australia Council, its expenditure and its operation. As I have said before in the Senate, we should not make decisions to expend large amounts of money on the arts and then forgo our responsibility to ensure that those moneys are expended wisely. In the past the view has been put that the Australia Council has not expended its moneys wisely. It is my feeling that that is still the position. Again, I do not question deeply the Committee's decision, I merely warn that it may be necessary to continue to oversee this very important area of Government expenditure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Can the Minister confirm or deny Press reports which show that the Budget deficit in the first 2 months of the 1976-77 financial year is $ 1,456m, which is more than half the 1976-77 budgeted deficit of $2,607m? Can the Minister confirm whether this spending rate is 15 per cent higher than in the same period of the 1975-76 financial year? If this  is  so, can the Minister explain by what means the current spending deficit will be contained to meet the projected figure of $2,607m for the 1976-77 financial year? Do the possible measures include a mini-Budget in early 1977, further cuts in government expenditure, or a combination of both? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: Is it true that the Government plans to establish a national wool producing training committee? Is it true that such a committee will be funded out of the allocation for the National Employment and Training scheme? Can the Minister inform the Senate how much of the $40m allocated to the NEAT scheme for 1976-77 will be spent on this proposal? Can the Minister outline under what criteria such a proposal is being made? 
That was an abrupt and sudden end to what was stated, at the commencement of the speech, to be a major contribution to the debate on the Loan Bill (No. 3) 1976. 1 shall resist the temptation to remind the Senate, now that the word 'loan' has been mentioned, of what happened in this place during last year when the Senate was misused in a way which is in the historical record and can only be termed disgraceful. I could refer the Senate to names such as Karidis. That man was brought before the Bar of this place in an endeavour to discredit the Labor Government and to establish what were termed at that time reprehensible, illegal and extraordinary actions on the part of the Labor Government. Nothing came of that. Nothing was proven. It remained for the Senate Opposition at that time to use its numbers ruthlessly to displace the rightfully elected Government. 
Time has gone by. We must look both to the present and to the future, although at question time we are often reminded of what the Australian Labor Party endeavoured to do in spite of obstruction by the Ministers who sit opposite and who continually try to offset their own errors by blaming the previous Labor Government. We have come to the end of that honeymoon. Now, the Government must stand upon its own feet. Ministers must make their own explanations based upon their record. It is a rather dismal record after 7 months. I shall use some of the terms which were used against the Labor 
Government during the previous loan debate. That Government was accused- as I accuse this Government- of gross mismanagement of the economy which has led to an inflated unemployment situation without any great reduction in the inflation rate. This must be a matter for alarm for the community. If one can properly judge, that alarm is reflected in the lack of confidence upon which the Government depends so much in order to reduce the deficit. 
I think it is estimated that the deficit is $2, 608m. But in order to maintain the deficit at that level consumer and business confidence must be restored otherwise other actions will need to be taken. It seems to me that those actions have already been hinted at in major statements made by Ministers from time to time. In spite of  Senator Messner  's attempted charge of irresponsibility, one of those hints seems to indicate that there may be devaluation of the dollar, a reduction in tariff walls and other mini Budgets imposed upon us at cost to the community. Looking at the Budget, it seems to me that the Government will depend very much on an increase in inflation rather than a decrease to obtain the revenue which will cut the deficit away or maintain it at $2, 608m. 
If the honourable senator looks at the Budget papers, particularly towards the end, he will see that no increase has been made in indirect taxation or, for that matter, other taxation. The responsibility has been left with and will be shoved fairly firmly on private enterprise to lift the price of those articles on which excise is charged in order for the Government to obtain the income which it requires to cut the deficit. In effect, a Bill of this type is a means adopted by the Government and by many previous governments to help finance the Budget deficit which, as I have mentioned, is $2,608m for the 1976-77 financial year. It is interesting to see the amounts of money that the Government has sought to raise either domestically or overseas. In due course we will be asking questions about the means used to raise such loans, the cost of raising such loans, the amount of brokerage paid on such loans and to whom the brokerage was paid, so that we can remind the Government quite clearly of some of the attacks and accusations which it made when we endeavoured to raise money overseas. Our error was to go away from the traditional methods of raising loans and to go to the area in which the Government is searching at the present time. This is an area in which there has been an accumulation of Arab dollars. We will get to that point in due course. Perhaps someone will tell us who is the broker and what brokerage has been paid. 
This Bill transfers money from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Loan Fund to finance authorised Defence expenditure. For the life of me I just do not know what that device is and why this device has to be used in this way. It seems that money has to be raised by one means or another. We do not object to moneys being raised. We do not believe, as  Mr Malcolm  Fraser believes, that one runs the economy of this country as a strict housewife would run a household budget so that one does not spend any more than one earns. If we did that we would go out backwards rapidly. The economy of the country has to be planned over a period of time and credit has to be used. Sometimes it is necessary to use more credit than at other times. That is where  Senator Messner  and I differ. 
As this Bill is integral to the Budget strategy I shall say a few things about the Budget and about the priorities which this Government has taken. Its priorities have had some tragic social effects because this Government has been obsessively concentrating on providing handouts to private enterprise in an effort to limit inflation. Admittedly, inflation is coming down but unemployment is going up. This is something we must look at with some concern. In West Germany where inflation has come down considerably one would have expected unemployment also to come down. But it has not. It has gone up. There is a great fear that unemployment may now become endemic and that we as a nation may become conditioned to accepting an unemployment rate of some 200 000 to 300 000 people. The cuts in capital works, programs for Aborigines, social welfare, housing and regional development have served the inequalities in the Australian society. That is the point I am trying to get at. Further, the cuts have entrenched the alienation and cynicism of people in society, especially young people. 
Before I concentrate on the effects that the present economic situation and the present policies have on young people I point out that in June the unemployment level was 265 000 or 5. 1 per cent of the work force. This was in spite of the Budget strategies of this Government and in spite of its promise that it would reduce unemployment and inflation. One must admit that there was over expenditure in many directions by the previous Government but this Government has gone to the opposite extreme. It has endeavoured to cut out all public expenditure. Instead of being so conclusive or dogmatic I say that it has cut out a considerable or large amount of public expenditure. One could say that the reaction has been too sharp, too opposite and too complete. One notices that the back benchers on the Government side have reacted just recently by bringing forward some device to which I shall refer later. The most critical areas of unemployment are amongst the young, the Aborigines, migrants and women. In many ways these groups can be said to possess very little power within society to combat effectively their increasing predicament. That is the way in which we on this side of the House view the unemployment situationnot so much in terms of statistics or dollars but in terms of the tragic consequences on the lives of people, especially young people. I would be prepared to accept a higher deficit figure in the short term rather than allow these serious consequences to flow to these people who have no effective way of challenging or combatting the consequences of this strict and inhuman Budget strategy. 
The present recession in the Australian economy has severely hit the job potential for young Australians. I have some well researched but little known facts on this growing problem. According to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when announcing the committee of inquiry into education and training, 36 per cent of the total unemployed are under the age of 20 years. This figure becomes more alarming when one considers that the under-twenty age group comprises only 12 per cent of the work force. In numerical terms the number of unemployed youth is in excess of 100 000. This will rise dramatically over the next 6 months when school leavers commence their disheartening search for jobs. 
They are the figures given by the Prime Minister himself. He sees the need for a long term inquiry. I have no objection to that; in fact, I support it strongly. However, I make the comment that in setting up such an inquiry we ought to consider that the young may know most about what their needs are and should, therefore, be represented on such a committee of inquiry. 
The unemployment rate for persons under twenty is more than four times the rate of unemployment of persons aged twenty and over. According to recently published material, the ratio of young people registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service to the number of vacancies is 35 to 1.  Senator Maunsell  will agree with me that in some locations, such as in some of the provincial cities where young people are locked into an area because of the need to keep the family together, it is as high as 600 to 1 . In towns such as Barcaldine, Longreach, Charleville and all the mid-western cities of Queensland that is tragic indeed. 
In a survey carried out by the Department of Labor and Immigration in 1 975 it was found that nearly 50 per cent of unemployed youth had not attempted any education beyond the ninth year, in other words they were leaving school at 14 years of age, or the tenth year, which means they were leaving at 15 years of age. Two-thirds had completed school before the fourth year at high school. The situation is aggravated in country areas. Those of us on the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts investigating the isolated children's reference are very well aware of the problem in country areas where youngsters, having no real prospect of advancement and seeing no further than their local horizons, left school at an early age to do the work that was available in that area- work which needed very little cultural skill- to their great detriment. 
The average time of unemployment amongst youths will increase. It has been estimated that about one-quarter have been unemployed for between 3 months and 6 months. These are the stark realities of unemployment, especially among young people. The Government's cuts on spending on social welfare have added greatly to the problems of over 100 000 youths in this country. Unemployment among young people cannot be dismissed lightly. Speaking from my experience with my own family, my son who has completed a university course and has 2 degrees with honours in zoology is still unemployed. It seems that he is not the only one. I do not give his example to gain sympathy because he needs no sympathy- at present he is driving a cab- but the point ought to be driven home that he is not isolated in this tragic situation in having an education which he cannot properly apply. He is now forced to do another 3 years of study in order to obtain further qualifications for which at this time he can see little use. This is where the chronic situation of unemployment in Australia among young people is leading many young people. 
Let me move away from those who have academic qualifications to those who will be leaving school at the end of this coming year. As a measure of the heartlessness of this Government I point out that it has determined arbitrarily, and without a proper understanding of the Act, that a person who leaves school at the end of this year shall not be deemed unemployed until the commencement of the first term of the subsequent school year. What right has the Minister for 
Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle ) to determine that a person is not entitled to unemployment benefits when that young person ceases going to school? Would it not be more humanly desirable for the Minister to say: 'We will not pay you these benefits because there is some confusion as to whether you will or will not go back to school. We shall not pay these benefits until the school term commences, but once that occurs these payments shall be made retrospective to the time you left school and went on the labour market'? I mention this as something which needs to be attacked. The Minister ought to be made aware of how inhuman this attitude is. If she and the Government are not made aware of it, this inhumanity will spread to other areas. 
The despair and frustration faced by young unemployed can be properly assessed only by those who are in contact with them from day to day. Only then can their dependence be understood and the danger of self-degradation be measured. Unemployment has become a structural problem. Yet the current Government has done little in the 9 months since it took office. Its record could be described as one of 'heartless inertia'. There is a lack of response to the needs of many thousands of disadvantaged Australians, especially the young unemployed. 
One might argue that we are treating this Loan Bill as one would treat a money Bill at the first reading stage. As has been pointed out by my Leader,  Senator Wriedt,  we are following the precedent set by the previous Opposition. I would like to comment on the campaign to denigrate the unemployed- a campaign that has reached substantial proportions in Queensland, a campaign that denigrates unemployed people as 'dole bludgers' despite the low number of people prosecuted by the department concerned for breaches of the conditions upon which benefits are made available. This shameful attack has served only to increase the social stigma of the unemployed. It lessens self-respect amongst those who have become unemployed and again promotes cynicism and frustration. 
I say to honourable senators that the figure of 265 000 unemployed people is not a static figure. Perhaps it is a static figure in respect of young people, in that people in this group stay unemployed for a considerable period of time; but older people move in and out of the pool of employed- some are moving in and some are moving out. Therefore, possibly close to half a million people are affected, and for the period that these people are unemployed they should not be classified as 'cheats' and 'bludgers', because such terms are gravely offensive not only to them but to the whole of our society. 
There also has been a tendency on the part of the Government to make unemployment benefits much more difficult to obtain. This has created further hardship. In some cases it has led to a decision not to seek unemployment benefits, especially by the young. This raises the question of who is responsible for unemployment. Is the individual responsible for it, or are the current priorities of this Government responsible for it? I do not think the blame for unemployment should be placed upon the individual; it should be placed upon the Government and its policies. As I have indicated previously, the policies of this Government are harsh, unthinking, unworkable and doomed to failure. Unless there is a consumer led recovery the Budget strategy will fail. Unfortunately there is no evidence of that consumer led recovery. The indications now are that people are saving money rather than spending it. People are concerned that one of these days they may be in this pool of unemployment, that they may suffer sickness or some other hardship. Therefore they accumulate their savings, and this practice is entirely in conflict with the strategy of this Budget. 
Governments are appointed to represent the people and to take initiatives on behalf of the people. Governments are not separate from the people, as the Prime Minister seems to indicate from time to time. Governments must take initiatives in public enterprise in order to stimulate private enterprise. I believe that this Government is neglecting that responsibility, and all the consequences that I have mentioned flow from that. There seems also to be some attempt to place unemployed people into different categories. I am quite astonished to note that people in the 16 to 18 years age group receive less unemployment benefit than people over 18 years of age. Again I cannot see, in this day, in this society and in this type of economy, how a person who is in the 16 to 1 8 years age group and is seeking a job can live on a lesser benefit than that on which other unemployed people can live. People in this age group should receive at least an equal benefit and not a lesser benefit, in view of the responsibilities that they have in entering the work force. 
I have spoken about the unemployment benefits paid to people leaving school. I have spoken about the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. I have not spoken about the device, which the Government announced on 
Sunday, of paying sums of money to unemployed people to enable them to move from areas where there is heavy employment to other areas where some employment is available. It seems that $2m is to be made available for this scheme. My calculations indicate that a maximum of only HOO people will benefit. The Government is afraid to provide money for employment creating schemes, but for some reason it believes that its decision to make money available for the transfer of people from areas of heavy unemployment to other areas is an exercise in public initiative and that public initiative is nowhere near as effective as private initiative. However, the two cannot be separated; they are very much intertwined; one depends very much on the other. If this Government has a desire to reduce unemployment it is necessary that it do so by creating or providing the stimulus to allow public authorities and other organisations to provide employment in areas where there is substantial unemployment. 
I am rather curious to find out how the recently announced scheme is to be administrated, how costly the administration will be and how many people actually will benefit. Without in any way wishing to deprive people of assistance to help them to move to jobs or to investigate jobs, I believe that the arrangement announced by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is very open-ended. I am waiting to see just what the results will be and how long it will be before the Government pulls back. If the previous Labor Government had announced a scheme such as the one announced by the Minister, there would have been great cries of 'socialism' and 'feather-bedding the workers'. If the scheme works, I say 'Good luck to it'; but it seems to me that it would be far better to pay substantial moneys to local authorities and organisations in order to create work than to try to shift people madly backwards and forwards across the countryside to seek work or to re-establish themselves after they have found work. 
I have said quite a deal in this debate. I notice that the Government Whip is giving me the old television sign to indicate that my time is up. I advise the Government Whip that the proceedings are not being broadcast today; so I am entitled to speak for one hour. I am reminded of what we had to face when we were sitting exactly where the present Government senators are sitting. At that time they were in full flight and sharp attack when they had the opportunity to speak on the first reading of money Bills. The present Government's turn is about to come. Its turn is about to come because the first time there are indications of a failure in the Government's strategy- which will not be long- it will have to watch out. There will be no sympathy for the Government on that occasion because it will no longer be able to blame the previous Government. The Opposition can only say to members of the Government that what you have accused us of you will prove worthy of yourselves. 
The Government's strategies are wrong. It does not care for those in need. Its priorities work back to front. Its trust in private enterprise is ill founded. The Government will find that it cannot succeed with this strategy and it will be forced to take other measures. If other measures have to be taken I advise the Government to think of people rather than figures and first to consider the social impact of its decisions before initiating legislation. I do not oppose money raising. I have said that before. I do not oppose the use of credit and I have said that before. I do not oppose dealing with inflation by deficit budgeting. In fact, I support all that the Government appears not to support. That will be to the Government's disadvantage. 
I must apologise to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  for continuing to attract her attention. As a Whip I must apologise for the fact that, as we are slightly ahead of our time-table, it is perhaps necessary to ask the Minister further questions which may have been asked already. In all seriousness, what concerns me is this concept of a triennium and the fact that the organisations which do this most necessary work for the community are now required to make financial arrangements with builders, as the Minister has stated, with banks and with their own organisations in order to plan. With all the best intentions in the world this must be accepted by the Minister as an inhibition to future planning in an area of great need. 
As I think  Senator Grimes  has pointed out, some of the smaller organisations in the more isolated regions will find themselves saddled after a considerable period- we are not talking about one, two or three months; it could be a period of 12 months or even longer- with bridging finance, no matter who happens to be the provider of that finance, which will attract an interest rate of from 10.25 per cent to 11.5 per cent. This seems to be an added burden and added worry for the organisations concerned and it may cause them to hold up their planning. I think it has been accepted by both parties in government that the responsibility of raising moneys should not be carried by these organisations and that they should be free to give all their time to the care of the aged. 1 question whether the Government is right in allowing such an open-ended arrangement for bridging finance. Perhaps it would be better if the Government were to make some sort of fund available. This might destroy the purpose of the Government. In fact, I am not quite certain what the purpose of the Government is. I am certain it is not the purpose of the Minister to extend this program over 3 years- to delay this program and to delay assistance to the aged- in order to meet the Government's Budget strategy, which seems to be to reduce the deficit. I have already expressed the opinion today that that is a rather hopeless and, shall we say, inhuman sort of attitude. I pose a question: Can I be assured that the proposal is not merely to extend responsibility and to spread that responsibility over 3 years when the responsibility should really be accepted in this year? 
To move to another point, I ask the Minister whether the committee of inquiry- perhaps she could give me some explanation of this committee of inquiry- has made any in depth assessment of the needs of the aged over the next 10 to 15 years. If it has not made such an assessment, does it intend to do so? Is it the opinion of the Government, or perhaps of this committee of inquiry in any advice that it has given already, that we have reached a peak in the need? In other words, have we gone through the period where because of neglect in past years- I am talking about a past generation- it has been necessary to provide facilities for the aged in substantial amounts and this need has reached a peak, or will it peak and will the responsibility and the need to supply diminish? In spite of what I said before as I rose to my feet, I really am concerned about these matters. Perhaps the Minister can oblige with some information. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the changes to be made in assessing income for pension eligibility which will come into effect on 11 November next. Can the Minister be specific as to the way income is to be assessed? For instance, if there is a weekly income of $40 derived from renting a house, will the gross amount be regarded as means, or will rates and tax be deducted first? Have specific guidelines yet been given to officers of the Department of Social Security? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health provide the Senate with details of the World Health Organisation conference in Geneva, held from 3 1 August to 7 September, relating to the preservation of foodstuffs by irradiation, which I believe was found to be dangerous? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the irradiation method of food preserving has been experimented with in Australia? Further, are any products being sold in Australia which have been preserved by the irradiation method and, if so, which are the products and what is the incidence of their use? 
My contribution to this debate will be almost in the form of a personal explanation. I remind  Senator Harradine  that he approached me to seek a place in the Budget debate. In fact, arrangements were made and instructions left that a slot would be made available to him, not today but last Wednesday. Unfortunately, as honourable senators will recall, on Tuesday last so great a length of time was taken by each  speaker  that several senators, including  Senator Harradine,  were pushed off the debating list on Wednesday last. Arrangements were made for  Senator Harradine  to be on the list today. Unfortunately, a decision was made to hold an urgency debate and again  Senator Harradine  and several other senators will be pushed off the debating list. 
-We will make every opportunity available for those people who wish to speak on the Budget to do so. It is unfortunate that, although we on the Opposition side provided an opportunity to  Senator Harradine  to be on the list last Wednesday, events took another turn. Again, events have taken another turn today. But I assure the Senate that on  Senator Harradine  's application to me for a space on the speaking list I made a space available on the Opposition side, not on the Government side. 
I am pleased that the honourable senator acknowledges it. This situation often occurs in this place. Those of us who have been here for some time have on occasions waited for weeks to enter into a debate and have altered figures in written speeches on at least 3 occasions. 
The best speeches are the ones not delivered as  Senator Harradine  will find out in time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations state whether the Government intends to continue the practice of issuing the recently reformed seasonally adjusted figures on unemployment? Is the Government aware that the figures issued using the new seasonal adjustment, which perhaps he can explain to me if he has time, show that the level of unemployment during August was 4.8 per cent? Was it the intention of the Government to show that this level of 4.8 per cent is the highest on record for the month of August? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. It follows his answer to  Senator Tehan.  Will the Minister agree that the comments which the Governor-General was forced to make arose from a situation which he created by dismissing a democratically elected government on 1 1 November last year and that the dismissal arose from the obstruction in this place of the Opposition at that time? Will the Minister agree that that obstruction was the violence which led to the situation about which the Governor-General objected? Will the Minister not take a double stance in this situation, and will he admit his own errors and his own responsibility for the situation about which the Governor-General complained? 
We have just heard an exercise in selfinterest both on behalf of  Senator Sheil  and the Party which he represents. For some reason he seems to believe that his profession should be excluded from the ordinary requirements which society imposes to prevent what could be abuses of a very important area of professional behaviour. It seems to me that his closing remarks reveal the true fear of the medical professionthat in this country it may come under a surveillance which will expose what has been exposed overseas, particularly in America. I refer to a misuse of the health services, not by the people who require the services but by the doctors who supply the services. This is the great problem of any medicare system. This is the main problem. A substantial section of the profession, not the whole of the profession, misuses the system to the disadvantage of the community and to the disadvantage of the government of the day which must meet the costs of a health care service. 
Yes, it is a minority, but a minority of sufficient size to bring the whole of the system into disrepute. No one can deny the experiences of the investigating committee overseas. One of the problems of any profession or any business activity in the community is that a small minority in that profession, that industry or that business can debase the whole of the service and can force upon the rest of the community the need for surveillance. Some of the medical profession seem to fear Medibank because it is a single scheme, gathering in as a single organisation information from a variety of sources for use by the community or by individuals. The activities of doctors could be one of the things upon which it gathers information. Being a single scheme, the information is gathered in a single way. Therefore, results of abuses or under-uses are quickly exposed. That is the problem with the computer system and with the computer age into which we are entering. 
Surely the health care system of this country ought not to be denied the right to see that there is no abuse economically or no abuse of the standard of service. At present the Taxation Office carries out a surveillance of the payment of tax. It does so on behalf of every individual in this country. Any over-use is quickly shown by the computer system, and a query goes out. Honourable senators opposite can argue against that if they wish, but it is necessary for efficiency that the tax gatherers of this country have that information to prevent a misuse of the system. All of us suffer as a consequence of those who seek to avoid paying the correct tax. Similarly in this system we are forced to impose a surveillance to keep the rogue at bay. I am not singling out the medical profession. I am speaking about all professions. I am speaking about all business activity. 
-Yes. I am speaking about all people who participate in an activity. In hire purchase and financial arrangements and agreements it is necessary to maintain a surveillance to keep the rogue at bay. If not, the whole community pays. This is the problem that we face tonight. For that reason I take very strong objection to the fact that the Medibank system, which was evolved during the period of the last Government and which was subjected to scrutiny and resistance by this chamber, has now been interfered with to the disadvantage not only of the scheme but also of the community and of the profession. We are not speaking about a health delivery service as such. All we are speaking about is a scheme to pay for the services- a simple scheme of paying the doctors, nothing more or less, for the services which they deliverand to take some care that the doctors do not misuse the system. Surely from a point of view of efficiency and economics the simple system which was evolved, to which this Parliament agreed in the past, proved, in the short term that it was operating, to be efficient because the administrative costs of the system amounted to only 4 per cent. The administrative costs of the previous system amounted to 1 5 per cent. 
In Victoria it was 17.8 per cent, as  Senator Primmer  said. The great damage that is being done by this legislation is to the administrative costs of the Medibank scheme. They will be lifted to this level, for a variety of reasons. That scheme required no membership catalogue. It was a simple system. A person went to a doctor, obtained a service, and either the doctor bulk billed or the patient presented his bill to a Medibank agency and, on the evidence of that service, was paid. It was simple enought to put it into a computer, take the information out of the computer and pay the person. But in a single stroke this Government has forced on Medibank the conditions that the private funds previously had to have- 200 systems each competing against the other, each seeking support by considerable advertising, each having to keep a membership register, each having to maintain that register accurately with people moving in and out of schemes. That sort of system is now being imposed upon Medibank, and the cost of Medibank will rise to the level that the private funds have maintained for quite some time. In other words, what the Government has done is to thrust the previous inefficiency of the private funds upon the Medibank system which this Parliament evolved. For that reason the Government stands condemned. It has submitted to the attitudes of the private doctors and, as one sees from looking at the legislation, has bought their co-operation. 
It has not reduced some of their fees. In no way has it reduced their fees. In fact it has given them a bonus of 1 5 per cent for bulk billing. The doctors said magnanimously: 'We are entitled to a 15 per cent increase in our fees but we will not take 1 5 per cent. We will take 7.5 per cent. This is an example of restraint to the community. We are prepared to take half of what we think we are entitled to. ' If one looks at the legislation one finds that there is now to be a payment of 15 per cent to the doctors for bulk billing. 
There is no restraint there. Now all doctors will suddenly realise the advantages of bulk billing. Previously they resisted it- not for economic reasons but for ideological reasons. But even then 40 per cent of doctors were bulk billing. Now of course they will all bulk bill because by doing so they can add to the sum total of their charges a further 1 5 per cent. It will be 15 per cent upon the 7.5 per cent which they granted to themselves. What wage restraint and what an example to the community! The example is an example of self interest. The doctors of this country are a law unto themselves. I agree with  Senator Baume  that the profession itself has certain ethical standards which it endeavours to impose, but it is facing great difficulty because of the general greed of members of the profession who seek to take out of the community as much as they possibly can and who seek to be assured of payment by a divided device of inefficient schemes, which will assure the doctors of their payment but which will also ensure that the community will pay much more. I am pleased to see that the profession is to be self regulated.  Senator Sheil  mentioned it. He condemns it. He ought to encourage it. Self regulation is something which the profession demands because it fears a bureaucratic supervision of its endeavours.  Senator Sheil  is opposed to self regulation. It seems to me that he personifies the attitude of the Government more so than anyone else. He personifies an attitude of this Government which endeavours to drag us back to an outmoded system of living, a  laissezfaire  system, a catch as catch can system, where the skilled and the strong always gain an advantage and where the weak and the timid always go to the wall. That is what  Senator Sheil  personifies. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. 
I shall give just a slight amount of information. I remind the Minister of his media release of 9 September in relation to the progress of housing reconstruction in Darwin. Can the Minister tell us whether the new houses built since cyclone Tracy are utilising anti-cyclonic measures? If so, how many of the houses are built to withstand cyclones and what degree of stress are they built to withstand? Further is the Department currently analysing the need for anti-cyclonic housing for regions most affected by cyclones, such as in Queensland, the Northern Territory and north western Australia? Can the Minister provide details of such research and its current progress? 
-I seek leave to propose a motion. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer him to his answer of 5 October to a question asked by  Senator Rae  about a proposed Omega station. I quote the Minister:  . . there is no military significance attached to the establishment of an Omega station. 
He further said: 
. inquiry, both in this country and elsewhere, has shown that absolutely no disadvantages would accrue to a State from the siting of an Omega station in that State. 
In view of these statements, I ask the Minister the following question: How does he reconcile his view that 'there is no military significance' attached to Omega with the United States Navy reports and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics Defence Ministry reports which give a high strategic value to the Omega system in coordinating nuclear strikes? Would he not agree that Omega, being a highly potential nuclear target, would be a disadvantage to Australian people in the vicinity of such a base? 
Again I have to clear up a point. A discussion of a matter of public importance was proposed and was discussed by the Whips. More Opposition senators than could be accommodated indicated that they wished to speak on this matter. After the speakers list had been compiled, I received a note from  Senator Harradine  which stated: 
I notice there is an urgency motion, the subject matter of which I support and wish to speak on. 
I indicated to  Senator Harradine  that unfortunately debate is limited to a certain length of time. The speakers list was already completed and I informed  Senator Harradine  that in that situation the Opposition could not drop a  speaker,  suggest to  Senator Harradine  that he should anticipate the program of the day and list his name with the Whips for consideration or take other steps, but that he ought not to endeavour to enter the debate at a late stage. However, I am pleased to see that he is prepared to support this very important motion and that  Senator Douglas  McClelland is prepared to second the motion to suspend Standing Orders. The Opposition supports the proposition that there should be a suspension of the Standing Orders to allow full debate on this matter. 

 Senator HARRADINE (Tasmania)-Thank you,  Mr President.  I take the strongest exception to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  accusing me of grandstanding. As the Opposition Whip,  Senator Georges,  mentioned, I wrote him a note when I noticed that there was an urgency motion listed for debate. At that time his list was full. I advised the  Deputy  Government Whip that I wished to speak. She quite rightly said that I should seek a place on the Opposition 's speakers list since I was supporting the motion. I will not beg of the Minister or of the Opposition the right to speak in this chamber on a subject matter of vital importance to my State. I request you,  Mr President,  in view of the attitude that is being adopted, to look this way sometime and to ignore the speakers list during the urgency debate. 
I welcome this Bill. It gives further assistance to those in need and in particular to the handicapped. It adopts the principle that the whole of society must accept the responsibility for a person in need. It is gratifying to see that the Government, a Liberal-National Country Party Government, has recovered from some 20 years of inactivity in this field and has responded to the initiatives instituted by Bill Hayden, if I recollect correctly, in 1971 when he announced a very comprehensive program. By 1 January 1975 the whole of that program was implemented. I am not saying that we, as the previous Labor Government, should take all the credit. I am saying, in response to  Senator Baume  's quite eloquent support of the present Government, that he must also give a large share of the credit to the initiatives taken by the previous Labor Government. For instance, if I may just briefly classify them, I refer to the adoption of many of the recommendations of the Griffith report, especially recommendations of the National Advisory Committee on the Handicapped and also the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. In 1971, as I said, Bill Hayden was responsible for designing a comprehensive program. 

 Senator Grimes has indicated that the handicapped children's benefit was doubled during the period the previous Government was in office. The handicapped children's allowance was introduced by the previous Labor Government. Whilst we support the Bill, some of us had some doubt at the beginning of the year as to whether the present Government was going to continue the program. There was, in spite of what  Senator Baume  has said, hesitation by the Government. There were comments such as programs will be carried out in this way subject to budgetary requirements'. I remember a number of occasions when the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and for that matter the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  used this phrase to qualify many of the programs which the Government announced. 
The phrase seemed to me to indicate that the Ministers in charge of these areas of responsibility to society were coming under pressure, just as previous governments had come under pressure, from the Treasury to cut down expenditure in the area of social welfare. If I may make the point again, this is the area which should not be subjected to budgetary requirements. The efforts to meet the needs of the community as far as health and welfare are concerned should not be limited. The responsibilities should be met. If there is a short fall in finance that shortfall must be carried by another section of the economy. In particular cuts made in February 1976 created difficulties in New South Wales. I have in front of me an editorial which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 9 February. It questioned what the Government was appearing to do. It said: 
In deciding to cut aid for projects assisting handicapped children, the Federal government has stepped into a sensitive area. It is one in which special care must be taken with any cuts made. Governments in Australia have been slow to provide aid for handicapped children. 
The editorial concluded by saying: 
The Federal Government has begun to recognise the size of the problems. It is realising that many of them are beyond the capacity of individuals to overcome. This realisation and the consequent aid should go forward, not backwards. 
I trust that this legislation before us tonight is a movement forward, not backward. I would emphasise that private organisations in this area should not have to bear the responsibility of fund raising. They have a difficult task in providing administration, in providing the cohesion required in carrying out programs for the care of the handicapped without having to worry about raising the finance. We should not be getting this sort of welfare on the cheap, subsidising money which is raised by the private efforts of people who have already accepted a responsibility for the care of the handicapped. 
There was also a further editorial in March 1976 headed 'Hope for retarded schools program'. Apparently the Federal Government got into difficulties with the New South Wales Department of Education. I trust that the deadlock which developed at that time in respect of the program for mentally retarded children has been overcome. 1 hope that the Minister might be able to enlighten me on this point. In Queensland as late as 1 8 August 1 966 this comment appeared in the Press: 
Workers for the Queensland Spastic Centre at New Farm were being forced to act as beggers to maintain their service, a union leader said yesterday. 
The union leader was  Mr A.  Bevis of the Transport Workers Union. He was underlining the problem that this organisation was facing. 
I suggest to the Minister that great care has to be taken with the implementation of these programs by her Department and by State departments which have been funded to carry out certain programs to support handicapped children. For some reason there seems to be a considerable difference between the intention of the Government, through the Minister of the day, and the actual result in the field. This has been revealed by  Senator Grimes  in a question concerning the way in which the Department of Social Security was terminating unemployment benefits. There seems to be a most inhumane approach to the needs of a person unemployed. Similarly I think  Senator McLaren  revealed in a question today that the operation of the Commonwealth Employment Service fell short of the intention of the Government and that in the area of assistance to both junior and senior handicapped persons there may be a tendency by the bureaucracy to become callous in its application of the program. Again I return to the possibility that the Treasury, preoccupied with the need to reduce the deficit, may impose budgetary restrictions in this area of welfare. This may pass down into the bureaucracy and may in the end lead to a diminished service. 
Let me say in conclusion that there seems to be general agreement on both sides of this House at least that programs for the handicapped and for the needy should not be in any way limited. On the contrary they should be more freely supported financially and should be more freely supported with professional and scientific skills. For that reason therefore, in spite of the fact that I have made criticisms, I welcome the Bill because it adds to the assistance of very worthwhile organisations. I trust that the Department and the Minister will monitor the needs of these organisations and provide, with the generosity that the area needs, further sums as the months and years go by. 
In support of  Senator Colston  I remind the Senate of the debate that took place in this chamber concerning the shares held by the Premier of Queensland in Exoil, the manner by which he obtained a lease in Queensland while a member of Parliament, misused his position as a member of Parliament in disposing of - 
I am receiving all sorts of advice,  Mr President,  from honourable senators. 
I want in some way to accede to your request, but there is no doubt that that lease which was obtained by  Mr BjelkePetersen  was sold in such a manner that it attracted the attention of the Taxation Office and of a judge of a court in Queensland who made some very very caustic comments about the Premier at that time. No one can deny that. No one can deny the massive holdings that the Premier had in Exoil which had a lease on the Great Barrier Reef which he sought to drill to the disadvantage of the Australian people. I remind  Senator Maunsell  and the National Party that the Premier's own Party and his coalition partner reached the point of voting on a motion of no confidence in the Premier and the Premier was in some difficulty in surviving. 
If you recall,  Senator Bonner,  he survived because he took 2 proxies out of his pocket. 
It was not so long ago and the situation has not changed. Perhaps  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  passed some of his shares across to his wife. This seems to be a device which people use from time to time to get themselves out of an area of conflict of interest. It is an admission that they are in a position of conflict of interest, and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was in a position of conflict of interest at that dme. 
The other day it was revealed that  Mr BjelkePetersen  had a shareholding through a number of companies which effectively influenced Nema Holdings Limited. Incidentally, someone by interjection mentioned the other day that Nema spelt backwards is 'amen'. We might even see  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  's influence in the choice of that particular name. We cannot get away from the fact that the Premier of Queensland has a strange ethical code.  His  political attitude, to say the least, is primitive. 
-We have complained about the frontier type politics we have in Queensland under the Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen.  All I can say is that  Senator Colston  by his speech in this Senate has drawn attention to the conflict of interest. That conflict of interest would be considered to be important by the Press in Queensland because it gave it front page treatment. The  Courier-Mail,  unless it is in the public interest, would do very little which would support the Australian Labor Party and in any way disadvantage the coalition in Queensland, but then the matter has been raised the  Courier Mail  has consistently drawn attention to the strange ethical position in which the Premier of Queensland has found himself and still finds himself. 
In conclusion I mention the remarks made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  last night in response to  Senator Colston.  He implied that  Senator Colston  misused privilege. We ought to debate this matter of privilege or it ought to be considered in some way by a committee. To my mind privilege stems from the desire to give to the Parliament and members of the Parliament protection against the mighty, the rich and the powerful. I suggest to  Senator Colston  that what he did last night and what he did tonight is the right use of privilege.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is in the position to answer the charges. He is in the position to answer the allegations as best he can.  Senator Colston  had the right to use privilege to disclose the information he did and at the time use privilege as a protection against Nema Holdings Ltd, which has already issued writs against a newspaper which dared to publish the comment.  Senator Colston  indicated the extent to which an associate of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen, Mr Callaghan,  was prepared to go to intimidate the Press. He said: 'If you publish anything in connection with this we will sue'. 
I take it that the privilege given to us here is given so we can reveal the truth of a matter without having to face the intimidation of the powerful interests outside this place. For that reason I suggest - 
-Mr Bjelke-Petersen has the power and privilege of his own place and he misused that privilege not to do what  Senator Colston  did but to recall the Queensland Parliament for one day during the Federal election in order to defame people without naming them. He defamed person after person by innuendo and by insinuation. Let me tell how he did it. He made vile accusations about Ministers of the Crown getting kickbacks and about Ministers of the Crown having Swiss bank accounts. He did not mention a name because he could not mention a name. At the same time as he was making these statements the National Party membership throughout Queensland was spreading the insidious propaganda and naming Ministers of the Crown. That was a vile exercise and misuse of privilege.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  misused privilege and he misused the Parliament of Queensland. 

 Senator Colston stated a case. He gave the information; he named the companies; he gave the shareholdings. He exercised his right of privilege in the correct fashion. My advice to him is not to make a decision to repeat his comments outside this Parliament because this is a place in which a member of Parliament shall disclose information about the powerful in the land, including Bjelke-Petersen, the directors of Nema and the directors of all associated companies. He should not place himself under threat. Privilege was rightly used by him. It was not abused. The case put was well documented and well supported.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has now been put to the test. He has to explain away his conflict of interest, which gives him large slabs of shares in companies which control Nema Holdings Ltd. Those companies are receiving millions of dollars worth of contracts  from  the State Government. At one stage in Queensland if one was a member of Parliament and owned a garage and serviced a government motor car one was finished, being in breach of the Constitution. One was in a position of profit under the Crown, but  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has thrown all that to the wind. I say that the sooner he is put to the test the better.  Senator Colston  has put  Mr BjelkePetersen  to the test. Let  Mr Bejlke-Petersen  get out of it if he can. The figures are there, the documentation is there, the evidence is there and the profit is there. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I am pleased to hear that in answer to a question from  Senator Walsh  he is now blaming God and not the Labor Government for the decline in the economy. If I recall correctly the criticism Government supporters have been making over the past 6 months, they have blamed the Labor Government for every one of this Government's errors and they seem to continue to do so. I remind  Senator Cotton  of an answer he gave to a question on 15 September 1976 in which he stated: 
On evidence that has been accumulating over the last 6 weeks, the construction industry in New South Wales, which has been an area of concern, shows signs of beginning to improve. 
In view of this statement I ask the Minister: On what information did he base his statement of 1 5 September? Further, how does the Minister reconcile his conclusion on the New South Wales construction industry with the figures released on 28 September which show a decrease in the value of total buildings approved in August compared with the June and July figures? 
I would like to bring the Leader of the Government in the Senate back to the question of East Timor. The Opposition's concern is not with what the Government is saying but with what the Government is doing. I ask: Is it not a fact that the Prime Minister's visit to Indonesia at this time has been taken as an acceptance of the Indonesian policy in regard to East Timor? Will he state clearly what is the Government's policy? Is it for the withdrawal of Indonesian troops from East Timor and is it in support of a free act of self determination by the East Timorese people? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Minister be specific on the way in which income for pension eligibility is to be assessed from 1 1 November 1976. 
If a person has a weekly income of $40 derived from renting a house, will the gross amount be regarded as means or will rates and taxes be deducted first. 
Have specific guidelines yet been given to officers of the Department of Social Security. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. From the answers he gave yesterday to questions on East Timor, it appears that the Indonesian Government is distorting the Australian position on East Timor. If that is so, is the Government willing to take the following initiatives to counter the deceit of the Jakarta generals and support fully the right of self determination of the East Timorese people: Firstly, authorise communication with East Timor through Telecom and provide a licence for a radio to operate from Darwin; secondly, call for a moratorium on defence aid to Indonesia until all Indonesian troops have been withdrawn from East Timor; thirdly, urge the Indonesian Government to allow Australian observers to go to East Timor; fourthly, fully support the right of self determination for the East Timorese in the United Nations during the current session; fifthly, refuse to send further aid to the Indonesian Red Cross and continue to press for the involvement of the International Committee of the Red Cross; and finally and importantly, release all details of the Indonesian invasion of East Timor held by the Australian intelligence agencies? 


 Senator Cotton has been mildly offensive in suggesting that we are juvenile in presenting to the Senate a motion of urgency such as this. I do not think he realises the serious situation that faces the beef industry in Australia. If he did he would accept the motion as being a valid one, endeavouring to bring to the attention of the people, especially those who live in the rural sections of the country, the Government's failure to establish with the United States a firm agreement on beef imports. If  Senator Gietzelt  is to be accused of making anti-American statements during his speech, then perhaps I ought to refer to the Premier of Queensland who engaged in some very sharp comments about the American decision to limit beef imports into the United States. Perhaps also I ought to refer to the reverse situation of equal culpability, namely that the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  rather glowingly anticipated the possibility that imports into the United States would be increased beyond the basic import figures of the previous year. Those 2 people, the Premier of Queensland and the Minister for National Resources, have to accept responsibility for the continuing difficulties facing the beef industry in Australia. It is of no use  Senator Cotton  trying to put to one side this urgency motion, to declare it impudent, to refer to it as a juvenile act on the part of the Opposition. I am not a rural fundamentalist, but I have spoken in this place on a number of occasions on rural problems. 
Yes, and the problems that faced the turtle farm project are the problems that now face the beef industry. That is sad commentary that has to be made. The indecision of governments and the faulty policies of governments, and, shall we say, the erratic funding of proposals, have caused difficulties in many areas, but we are dealing with the beef industry at the present time. One does not need to be a rural fundamentalist to understand that if you produce you must make certain that there is a market. You must ensure that you do not go into an area of over-production unless you are sure of having markets available. The present problem that we face with the export of our beef to the United States is one which we face continually. The United States either imposes import restrictions of some sort or uses the indirect method of imposing certain health or hygiene conditions on abattoirs causing them to close down, thus preventing the export of Australian beef, mainly to the United States. It is an indirect method; a dishonest method; a deceitful method. I have spoken about it many times. 
If the honourable senator would like to go to the abattoirs - 
-The United States Government. 

 - Senator Jessop can only be offensive. I suggest that he go back to sleep as he was a moment ago and let me continue my remarks. By various devices the United States has hindered the flow of Australian beef to the United States market and I am blaming the present Government. 
I am blaming the present Government for not taking those things into consideration and for not diversifying its markets for our export beef. What has the present Government done? It has encouraged over-production in the beef industry and that has done little to correct the situation. The LiberalNational Country Party coalition, which  Senator Jessop  supports, is engaged in a massive confidence trick.  Senator Jessop  and members of the National Party have set themselves up as the protectors of the farmers. In reality the policies and activities of this Government have assisted in eroding the real livelihood of 300 000 Australian farmers. Honourable senators opposite cannot get away from that because the Government's present policies have consolidated poverty in the rural areas. They have failed to reduce the plight of the beef producer. That is just one angle of the problem. 
Take a look at the rural policy of this Government at the time of the last election. Let us see how the Government has failed to carry out its policy- this coalition government, as we call it. It is not now a Liberal-Country Party coalition; it is a Liberal-National Party coalition. The National Party by virtue of its change in name and attitude really ceases to represent country people. I think country people have started to appreciate this after 10 months of government by this LiberalNational Party coalition. What were the promises of these parties? What did they say? In their promises they accepted the concept of a national rural bank which was to assist farmers to overcome the long and short term financial difficulties. If it has been said once in this place it has been said time and time again, and that is that what the rural sector needs more than anything else is financial assistance to take farmers and producers out of the hands of the pastoral companies which in many cases are charging 1 5 per cent, 16 per cent and up to 18 per cent on loans. Yet this Government went to the people and made a policy statement that if elected to office it would set up a rural bank. It said it. It has not done it. 
It has failed to assist many farmers who find themselves in this very desperate situation because they cannot overcome the long term and short term financial difficulties. Another policy which was announced by the Government coalition was to lease farms to young farmers. I think they called it the young farmers establishment scheme. Where is that scheme? I do not think  Senator Jessop  has an answer to that one. There was also a promise of tax concessions to encourage efficient land use during seasons of adversity. Where are they? Where are the concessions set out in that policy? There is no answer to that one. That promise has also been broken. What has happened to the animal quarantine station which was foreshadowed? I remember being a member of a committee some 3 years ago that went to Norfolk Island. I think  Senator Jessop  was also a member of that committee. We went to Norfolk Island, through to Singapore and we looked at Christmas Island and the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. He was a member of that committee which recommended that a quarantine station be set up on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. What happened to the recommendation? What has happened to the National Party supporters? Are they pressing for the establishment of this very important quarantine station, the purpose of which was to safeguard the rural producer- the beef industryagainst exotic diseases? Nothing has been done. 
In the Lynch Budget an income equalisation deposit scheme was announced but that will have very little marginal effect due to the fact that most farmers during depressed and continually depressed periods do not have available finance to purchase bonds. So much for the equalisation policy. What of the much heralded increase in the wool floor price from 250c to 275c per kilo. This again will have only a marginal effect due to the high wool prices this season. This is not a rural record of which the Government can be proud. 
The problems facing the beef industry need to be approached and dealt with just as the problems of the wheat industry have been faced and dealt with. The equalisation scheme for the wheat industry has been effective in protecting that industry. The poultry industry has been organised. It has an organised marketing policy. The problems of over-production have been solved. In the sugar industry the basis of the rural policy of the Australian Labor Party is the orderly marketing arrangement. The orderly marketing policies of the ALP are the policies which should be directed at the beef industry to solve its problems because its present problems will continue. The problems of the beef industry, coupled with the depressed state of other rural industries, means that the farm debt will continue to increase. Might I inform honourable senators that the farm debt at the present time is standing at $2, 500m and the interest paid on that debt is substantial. 
I could not tell the honourable senator what it was 3 years ago. I can tell him that at the present time it is $2, 500m, and in any man's language that is a substantial figure. The average debt per farmer is about $9,000, and that is a substantial amount. 
-One could say that that is so but one could also say that it is built up by the need for farmers to go into further debt in order to survive, lt is a continuing debt situation. The farmer has to borrow in order to pay previous debts. A chronic debt situation exists in the industry. Considerable thought and enterprise on the part of the Government are needed to correct the situation, and unless it is corrected the small rural producer will suffer continuing tragic results. It is not only the rural producer who suffers. The associated industries and community services in small towns suffer also, so that not only the farmers and their families are affected but also thousands of small businesses in rural towns.  Senator Scott  is to follow me in this debate and I am sure that he will agree that as one moves through the back roads of New South Wales one can see the effects of this depression. Although the adverse effects are apparent in those places they are more obvious in some of the rural towns in the hinterland of Queensland. 
I believe that the Government ought to be taking some positive steps to correct the problems of the Australian beef industry, which is fully representative of the depressed state of the countryside. I think  Senator Gietzelt  mentioned statements that have been made by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  and by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Doug  Anthony, and the encouragement that was given to people to increase their cattle herds. The problem, of course, was that it was not only the traditional beef producers who increased their herds; everyone seemed to think that there was a good opportunity to make a quick quid by getting into the cattle industry. We had the so-called - 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Since there is still increasing confusion about the Government's policy on East Timor will he state whether the following statement is currently applicable to East Timor? On 4 March, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: 
Our policy has been clear. It has called for the withdrawal of Indonesian troops. It has called for a cessation of hostilities. It has called for the implementation of an act of selfdetermination and a resumption of humanitarian aid through the International Committee of the Red Cross. 
Does that still apply? Can we get a clear answer? Has there been any change in that policy? If there has not been any change, why does not the Government take some initiative to break down the wall that Indonesia has erected around East Timor? 
I would like to ask a quick question. During the second reading debate I referred to the resettlement fund, which amounts to $4.4m, compared with a product valued at $300m. I wonder whether the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  can give me some sort of projection of what amount the fund is likely to reach over the next 10 to 15 years. 
I believe that this is contained in the Schedule to the Bill. If the honourable senator desires, I can start to look at the Bill a little more closely and ask a few more questions. This is an important question. I want to find out exactly what we can expect to have in the resettlement fund over the next 10 to 15 years. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is the Minister aware of three disturbing reports relating to the economy which point to a failure of the 1976-77 Budget to alleviate economic problems in Australia in 3 respects: Firstly, the drop in capital expenditure plans by companies in the coming year which suggests an end to investment led recovery; secondly, the curtailment of the public works program; and thirdly, and importantly, the disturbing news from Europe which indicates that the low consumer spending rate, high unemployment, higher money rates and tighter control of the money supply are contributing to a further recession, despite the much heralded austerity measures introduced in 1975. Can the Minister comment upon these reports in the light of the Government's own austerity Budget? Finally, can he provide an outline of what measures the Government intends to take to stop these socially disastrous trends in the Australian economy? If he can arrange for an interview with the Treasurer I would be pleased to discuss these points. 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of criticism made by  Mr Hayes,  the Victorian Minister for Planning, of the Federal Government's 10.5 per cent Australian Savings Bonds issue and the recent issue of savings bonds at a lesser rate of interest? In his address  Mr Hayes  said: 
Australian savings bonds rate was a significant factor in the financial difficulties of building societies. 
This has contributed, in my experience, to the problems of building societies in Queensland. Can the Minister state whether  Mr Hayes'  comments are valid? I believe them to be valid, but perhaps my opinion could be questioned. 
I am right more often then I am wrong. Does the Government intend to take action? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to an article in the Melbourne  Herald  of 1 1 October. Is the Minister aware of the considerable concern being expressed by 166 Victorian community welfare organisations about the future of the Australian Legal Aid Office? Is the Minister aware that the welfare organisations firmly believe that persons in need who utilise legal aid service should be consulted about the proposed changes to the Australian legal aid organisation? I remind the Minister that 150 000 Australians utilise the ALAO. Further, can the Minister provide assurances that such a consultation between her Department and those who make decisions about the legal aid service will take place? 
Some considerable questions are raised by this legislation. I have not received any comfort from the words of  Senator Scott.  My impression of Christmas Island, which was gained when I was a member of the Public Works Committee which visited the island as part of an investigation to locate a site for a quarantine station, was that it was a well established community. It gave all the impressions of being substantially an indigenous community. I must question whether this legislation is as humanly effective as  Senator Scott  has indicated. I would have thought that care should have been exercised on the part of those responsible for Christmas Island in past years. I am not just pointing directly to the present Government and blaming it as its supporters have blamed us for every error that has occurred over the past two or three years. I would not take the Government to task for any errors which I believe exist in this legislation, but I say to the Government that it should have another look at this legislation. Perhaps it can do so by supporting the amendment that we have proposed, which suggests that an investigation should be made into the question of whether or not there is a future for Christmas Island. I believe there is a future for Christmas Island. 
-Perhaps that and that alone might be a worthwhile exercise. Not only do the booby birds need some protection and consideration but also the people who have lived on Christmas Island for quite some time need some protection and consideration. Perhaps they may wish to stay there. 
This legislation is likely to take away a large number of qualified people from the island and resettle them in Australia. The desire to resettle in Australia could be based on the fact that many of the people receive one-fifth of the wages that they would receive for the same sort of work in Australia. That would be a considerable attraction to people to leave Christmas Island. Are we doing Christmas Island a service? I do not think we are. I believe that we should have looked more closely at the proposal in 1958 to set up a resettlement fund. The scheme should have been really a reserve fund and it should have been at a far higher level than it is. Since Australia took control on 1 October 1958, $300m worth of superphosphate- it was sold at a very low price, as I have pointed out in the Senate before in debates on superphosphate- has been taken away from the island. I take it that in the next 20 years because of the reduced rate of production, $150m worth or $200m worth of superphosphate could be taken from the island. I would have thought that sufficient should have been taken in royalties to create a fund to maintain an economically balanced community on Christmas Island. An amount of $4.4m out of $300m in the last 20 years is a very small sum to set aside. It would have been far better to have set aside a larger proportion of the gross product. If this had been done there would have been some chance not only for the resettlement of the people who wish to leave but also for the economic future of those who wish to stay on Christmas Island. What is the future of Christmas Island if all the qualified people are to be attracted to the better conditions in Australia? Will the island, as  Senator Scott  suggests, be merely a great mine employing only indentured labour from Singapore and Malaya? 
-That would appear to me to be  Senator Scott's  conclusion. I trust that it is not a conclusion that the Government will reach for Christmas Island. If we take 300 people a year from Christmas Island, in a little over 3 years more than 1000 qualified people who are entitled to come to Australia by citizenship rights will have left the island. If that happens I take it that the island economy will be maintained by indentured labour from Singapore and other places being paid again at a rate far lower than we should be paying anyone on an Australian territory. I think we ought to face that problem and ensure that whoever is employed on the island, no matter from where he comes, is paid at Australian rates. I know what will happen. There will be an outcry that the price of superphosphate will rise as a result. I do not think that anyone here really accepts that even in an area as far away as Christmas Island we should be paying coolie wages to produce on Australian territory a product that is to be used substantially in Australia. 
-Yes, you could. If you want to subsidise superphosphate it should be done at the expense of the Australian taxpayer and not at the expense of people who come from Singapore and work possibly more vigourously than many of our Australian workers do and are paid one-fifth of what Australian workers receive for the same amount of work. I could get into a discussion with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack on this matter, but let me say that Christmas Island has an attractive community with a wide variety of racial and ethnic origins. I hope that there will be no discrimination in the exercise of this resettlement fund. I doubt that that will be the case - 
Senators GEORGES- I do not know. We apparently do some things with good intent but we find the result is very discriminatory. Our intentions are often denied. The workers of Asian origin employed by the British Phosphate Company received salaries of up to 5 times less than that received by their Australian counterparts. I have already referred to that. This is regardless of whether or not they have Australian residency. That, of course, is exactly what I said before. The desire to come to Australia is based on economic return rather than a desire to transfer themselves from the Christmas Island environment to the environment in Australia. 
A union of Christmas Island workers has been created and it has put forward certain proposals, including a log of claims. I hope the phrase 'log of claims' does not make honourable senators opposite shudder. A log of claims generally asks for more than those who make the claims expect to receive. That is the nature of the game. 
-Yes, it has. When I see the ambit of some of the claims made in New South Wales I often wonder whether we have reached the next millenium. Nevertheless, a log of claims has been submitted by the Christmas Island workers. Those claims have apparently not been heard. I think the Government is in the process of passing a regulation which will set up a tribunal - 
It has been appointed? I hope that the Government has appointed someone who is an active commissioner. I hope it is not someone who has retired. If the Government appoints another retired specialist to this areaof investigation it will possibly find that the claims will go on forever and the tribunal will never cease to meet. That happened with the inquiry into the Great Barrier Reef and it happened with the investigation of the Department of Repatriation. Retired people were appointed and they then had a vested interest in keeping inquiries going. 
-Is he? I beg the honourable senator's pardon. I should have thought that he had retired after the investigation into the Department of Repatriation. I mentioned previously allegations of racial discrimination against Asian citizens. Allegations have also been made in relation to Government employees on the island. There are now 130 Government employees. Examples have been given to me of racial discrimination amongst Government employees. I could state a case and the Government could look at it. I instance the case of a consular clerk of Asian origin with 12 years service who is employed in the passports section. He receives a salary of $267 per month. The comparative rate in Australia would be no less than $710 per month. If I were a consular clerk receiving that amount on Christmas Island I should be the first on the list of those wanting to get to Australia and to be resettled there. 
-If he were repatriated to his own country he would possibly receive about the same as he is receiving on Christmas Island. What the honourable senator is saying is not really valid. In this sort of situation, when the economic difference is so great, these people would prefer to come to Australia rather than to return to their own community environment. It is the economic difference which attracts them and nothing more. In most cases, if it were not for the sharp economic difference they would prefer to stay in their own communities. They are generally happier there and would prefer that situation to a situation of considerable difficulty in an Australian environment. 
I suggest that the inquiry should look very closely at these matters. The amendment that the Opposition proposes will allow for the establishment of a public inquiry into the terms of the Christmas Island agreement. The Christmas Island agreement is a rather strange agreement. There are commissioners who are, I think, still operative and who hold positions. I think that some of them should have retired long ago. I also believe that the Act is constructed in such a way that Australia, even if it desired to do carry out some beneficial reform, is limited by what New Zealand may require. It seems to me that New Zealand has a veto on what Australia might need to do or what Australia might have wanted to do in the past. That power of veto exists and I suggest that the inquiry should look at the Act and perhaps amend this right of veto on the part of the New Zealand Government. 
It has been very difficult to find out exactly what has been earnt by those who work on Christmas Island and what has been earnt from the product produced on Christmas Island. It is only recently that figures have started to appear. The figure of $4.4m which has been revealed to be in the resettlement fund is a very small figure and one which should be subject to considerable criticism. Let me return to the point I wish to make. Christmas Island should not be abandoned. The situation on Christmas Island should be considered. The proposal to resettle should be considered in the new light that perhaps a Christmas Island community could continue to exist on the island. My proposition is that with the present rate of increase of the resettlement fund no real fund will be set up which will assist the maintenance of a community on Christmas Island. 
I believe the island is worth developing and the community is worth preserving. If it is not the intention of the Government to consider the situation it ought to come forward and say: 'When we are finished with Christmas Island; when we have taken out all the product; when we have resettled those who are eligible for resettlement, we will pack off all the others back to their various homelands and then we will give Christmas Island back to Singapore'. Is that the intention? 
-If that is the Government's intention, I suggest it ought to apply the same rules to several other territories which Australia holds. If Australia accepted this territory, or bought this territory in order to exploit it, perhaps we might think of the booby birds alone and the environment of the island alone and accept our responsibility to that part of the world. 
I have raised doubts concerning this matter. I ask the Government to heed those doubts. I ask the Government also to take into consideration the views of the community itself. Are the Islanders happy with the resettlement proposals? I have the impression that they were not all in agreement with being resettled elsewhere. Nevertheless, if the island is to be closed down it is not a bad idea. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation, although I appear to have said quite a deal against it. The Opposition strongly supports the amendment which it proposes. 
I had intended to speak about 2 matters in the adjournment debate tonight but I find that I must speak about a third matter. Today during the proceedings of the Parliament I sought leave of absence for  Senator James  McClelland. I think that all honourable senators know that his wife has been very ill and that over the past few weeks she has suffered greatly. It is with regret that I have to announce to the Senate that half an hour ago Freda McClelland died. And so there passes from this world an intensely human person. I think that we all regret her passing. 
Honourable senators- Hear, hear! 
Senators GEORGES-The second thing I wish to do is to correct what may be a misunderstanding arising from a meeting that I addressed in King George Square, a meeting which was in commemoration of the 5 journalists who died in Timor. The news media took up a call for compensation for the 5 journalists. I did not call for compensation as such; I called for reparation. I think that some compensation has been paid. The point that I was making- I am not the first to make it- was that some reparation ought to be made to the families who were shattered by the unfortunate and tragic death of these 5 journalists, who were caught in a circumstance which perhaps arose from the political limbo in which we found ourselves at the time. Nevertheless, these men died. They died while they were trying to communicate to the whole world the happenings in East Timor. 
Regrettably, since the Indonesians are not prepared to accept that they were in the area at the time, there appears to be no way in which justice can be sought and achieved for the families of these people. The Indonesians, who I believe the evidence clearly shows were responsible for their deaths, are not prepared to admit that the journalists were in the area at the time. However, I do not doubt that our investigations show that the Indonesian forces were responsible for their deaths. It is for that reason that the important question of reparation is raised, and it should be pressed by the Government. If it is not possible to achieve this end- that is, reparation for the families concerned- perhaps the Government should take some steps to give special aid to these families. Perhaps the correct thing to do would be to establish some amount of money which these families should receive in reparation, accept that the Indonesians were responsible and then tell them that we will deduct from the amount of aid that we give to Indonesia an amount of money which we consider necessary to be paid to the families of this group. Let me press the point that some assistance should be given to the families beyond the ordinary compensation which has been paid. I ask the Government to take up this matter. 
I would like to take up  Senator Wright's  point but I am not quite certain what he is putting. Let me put to him that this tragic circumstance - 
I would take it further. My view is that all aid to Indonesia should cease until it withdraws its troops, but I am not entering into that area at the present time. All I am saying is that by investigation the Indonesian fault should be established, if it has not already been established, and we should take the initiative to pay some further compensation, reparation, call it what you will, I think that the Government ought to take a look at the situation 12 months after the tragic deaths of these 5 men. The circumstances are unusual. The men were caught in a situation and apparently we cannot pin the blame where it belongs and seek justice for the families of these men. 
It would not have happened. 
I admitted in the first place that some compensation may have been paid. It may have been paid contrary to the Act because these men were outside Australian territory. 
I told you the facts in the first place,  Senator Wright.  You ought not to be so close to the letter of the law. You ought to exercise some humanity. That is what I am asking for here- some expression of humanity on the part of the Government in supporting the families of these journalists. 
I come now to my third point. I would like to have incorporated in  Hansard  a letter which appeared in the  Canberra Times  on Monday 1 8 October 1976. The letter was signed by J. S. Dunn.  Mr Jim  Dunn has been one of the people in Australia who has attracted attention to the tragedy of Timor. I must give credit to this man that he has been responsible for the documentation of much of the material on Timor. He has done this in a scholarly way and at great risk to himself, because this is a highly emotional issue and sections of the community have taken sides. For example,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of 
Queensland, has taken the view that the East Timorese are a bunch of communists and, being communists, they are therefore sub-human and anything that is done to them is justified.  Mr Dunn  has made a deal of effort to express his concern. He is a man of experience in that particular area. The letter in the  Canberra Times  concerns the death of the journalists at Balibo. I seek leave of the Senate to have the letter incorporated. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

KILLINGS AT BALIBO 

 Sir,- On October 16, one year ago, the quiet grey dawn of Balibo was shattered by artillery fire that marked the beginning of the first major Indonesian attack on East Timor. By mid-morning the onslaught had taken the lives of five young Australian newsmen. 
Although it may be impossible to prove that Indonesian troops actually shot these young Australians, the fact that this operation was planned and commanded by Indonesian officers leaves no doubt as to who is responsible for the killing. 
The continuing debate over the tragedy of Timor demonstrates clearly that these newsmen did not die in vain. The Timor affair subsequently became a subject of wide discussion throughout Australia and clearly now disturbs the Australian political conscience. 
Unfortunately, the tragic and wanton killings at Balibo did not arouse sufficient response in Australia or elsewhere to dissuade the Indonesians from their final act of invasion, which, based on the trickle of reports that have been received since December 7 (mostly from non- Fretilin sources), may have cost the lives of more than 50 000 Timorese, or nearly 1 0 per cent of the population. 
The dimensions of the Timor tragedy are therefore staggering, compared with any similar event in recent world history. The sad fact is that in the recent debates on the Timor affair and Australian-Indonesian relations, little attention has been given to the suffering of the people of East Timor, who are the innocent victims of a situation involving the kind of behaviour that most of us had hoped belonged to past history. 
But the people of Timor and the Australians who died in the Balibo attack are not the only casualties of the Timor affair. Other victims of lasting concern to us all are truth, justice, integrity and humanity. 
As one who also tried, but failed to do something to prevent the tragedy of East Timor, and who was in the territory when the Balibo attack occurred, I salute the memory of the five journalists. Their efforts have not been wasted. 
Partly as a result of the Balibo tragedy the Timor affair, with its wider implications, has caused us to look searchingly at some of the assumptions on which our foreign policies and stands of principles have been based. We must not forget that Timor was one case in Australia's diplomatic history, outside her own territories in which a people depended upon an Australian response in order that they should be able to exercise a basic human right- the right to determine their own future. 
Because Australia did not respond, thousands of innocent people have become the victims of a travesty of justice, a grim example of man 's inhumanity to man. 
S. DUNN, 
Leader of ACFOA Mission to East Timor, 
October-November 1975, 
Weetangera 
I give credit to  Mr Dunn  for the manner in which he has persisted in revealing to the Australian community the facts about what is happening in East Timor. Without much of his work we would be less informed and I think that our consciences would be less at ease. 
-by leave- I thought for a moment that  Senator Wright  intended to refuse leave for me to make a statement and that, having had his say, he intended to refuse others their right to speak. After that outrageous exhibition and expression of nonsense I merely say that all that  Senator Grimes  has said is valid.  Senator Webster  has succeeded in denigrating this very important statement by his behaviour over the past three or four weeks. He has taken every opportunity to read at length material prepared by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation on the most complex of subjects. 
-At question time he has answered questions asked by  Senator Jessop  which have all the hallmarks of a question to which an answer has previously been prepared. Time and time again we have suffered this performance by the Minister who speaks in a most learned way from a prepared answer when he is asked a question by an honourable senator on his own side of the chamber. But when he is asked a question from this side of the chamber he cannot answer it. We had a startling exhibition yesterday when he gave a very complex and complicated answer to a question on quasars. Honourable senators will recall that he was not able to answer when  Senator Button  asked him how many centimetres there are in an inch. 
It was millimetres. I do not profess to be the Opposition spokesman on science, but the Minister was not able to answer that question. Yet he went into a very complex explanation, using a prepared brief from CSIRO, to try to impress us with his knowledge. He has succeeded in denigrating a very important statement. 
-One of these days I will ask  Senator Webster  a question, which comes within his responsibility, about turtle farms in the Torres Strait. I will ask him why he has not done anything to investigate this continuing hoax upon the people of the Torres Strait and upon the people of this nation. I have said sufficient on the statement. I have been diverted by  Senator Wright.  He ought to have more sense than to question a valid expression of opinion by  Senator Grimes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister provide the Senate with details of the World Health Organization Conference held in Geneva between 31 August and 7 September 1976, relating to foodstuffs preserved by irradiation. 
Has the irradiation method of food preserving been experimented with in Australia. 
Are any products being sold in Australia which have been subjected to the irradiation method; if so, which products. 
What is the incidence of its use. 
-I sympathise with  Senator Davidson.  Perhaps he does not need my sympathy. I shared with  Senator Davidson  the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. I regret that we have to debate this very important measure at this late hour on a Thursday. The Australia Council Bill sets out in some way to correct the continuing errors of the Australia Council. I emphasise the words 'the continuing errors of the Australia Council'. It perhaps would have been better if this Bill had been withheld until the Industries Assistance Commission report had been tabled. I think perhaps it would have been advisable for the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, which  Senator Davidson  chairs, to have continued with its inquiry into the Australia Council, because unless certain reforms of administration are taken within the Australia Council this Bill will be of little use. 
I accept that the Government needs to have the legislation passed. I accept that the legislation is required to allow certain moneys to flow to some worthwhile enterprises which are funded by the Australia Council. For that reason we have not insisted that this Bill be postponed until the Parliament meets after next week's recess. The Government, because of its desire to have the Bill passed, may have reluctantly taken steps to force this Bill through. I do not think that is what the Government wanted. I do not think that this legislation would have been shown in its correct light if that course had been taken. We on this side could be terribly arrogant and strongly resist this legislation without properly scrutinising it at the second reading stage and in the Committee stage. We could do that, but there is a way out for us. Those of us who have criticisms of the Australia Council to make - 
Yes, constructive ones. They may appear to be destructive in the first instance but constructive they are intended to be. We will have the opportunity to take up these matters when the Appropriation Bills are being debated. At that time we will go more deeply into the sum of the matters that I wish to raise. 
However, this Bill provides for among other things the appointment of a general manager for a period of 7 years. It is desirable for us to point out that the previous administrator of the Australia Council has been at fault. One would need to remind the Government again of the errors of the past administrator- perhaps the acting administrator- of the Australia Council in case the Government decides to appoint that administrator to the job of general manager. 
She is not a scapegoat. I should have liked an opportunity to debate this matter.  Senator Missen  says that the present administrator is being made a scapegoat. I say that if she considers herself to be a scapegoat - 
If the honourable senator says she is a scapegoat then perhaps he should accept responsibility for some of her errors. I have pointed out to the Senate on several occasions the need for investigation of certain charges which were being made against the administrators of the Australia Council.  Senator Davidson  will recall that I referred at one stage to a letter that had been sent by the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association to the Auditor-General. I specifically raised the matter at the time when the  Chairman  of the Senate Committee said that the Committee did not wish to continue with its reference. I regret that it did not do so. It would have been able in some way to investigate further what I have said to be the continuing errors of the Australia Council administration. 
That letter, which was sent to the AuditorGeneral, has not been acted upon by the Auditor-General. There are some serious charges in that letter. The charges made are of nepotism and phantom appointments- serious charges of the misuse of public moneys- yet the AuditorGeneral made no reference in his report to those serious charges by a leading association of employees. Until this matter is resolved no appointment should be made or considered. If a nomination is received from the present administrator, that nomination ought not in any way to be considered until the matter is cleared up. What has happened to that charge or that complaint that went to the Auditor-General? For some reason it has been held up. The reason seems to be that a massive writ for $ 1 m has been issued by  Dr Battersby  against the Australian Clerical Officers Association, a writ that seeks in some way to inhibit the investigation and has in fact - 
-Speaking to the point of order, I think the attitude has been taken and rulings have been given that no debate in this place should be inhibited by a writ issued obviously for the purpose of intimidating. That is my view of the situation. Here we have a writ issued by a person who is likely to be appointed under this legislation as general manager for a term of 7 years at a salary of $30,000 without certain charges which have been made to the AttorneyGeneral having been investigated. 
Perhaps to assist you,  Mr President,  I will not continue in that way and will not concern myself with the fact that the writ has been issued. I take it that there is some substance in what  Senator Missen  has said. However, I think  Senator Missen  would agree that it is necessary to make mention of this matter but perhaps I should not enlarge upon it. 
I emphasise the importance of investigation into the continuing errors. Some of the information that has come to me, which is not subject to any litigation, is that the estimates of the Australia Council this year were established without reference to a sum of $1 1/2m. This is a matter which needs to be investigated before this Bill is dealt with. Although we have agreed that the Bill should proceed now, the matter ought to be raised. How is it that when the estimates for the Australia Council were being formulated no consideration was given to $l'/im which was lodged at the Bank of New South Wales at North Sydney in the form of a cheque? When information of this nature is revealed in relation to estimates, surely that information should be searched out. 
If we were to become political about this, and of course we are all political in this place, we would want to know exactly what sort of pressures have been brought to bear in order to maintain the high level of funding to the Australia Council which separately maintains a high administrative charge of 15 per cent. I would like to know how the Government can continue to maintain a funding at this level knowing the existence of errors within the Australia Council, those errors having been revealed in the past by various examinations, and then learning quite recently that while the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was in New Zealand the administrator of the Australia Council travelled across to New Zealand together with her daughter- they travelled first class- and took with them 64 Aborigines who did not travel first class. Of course, they could not because there was not enough room. Nevertheless, here is a situation where the administrator of the Australia Council and her daughter- one of the phantom appointments to which I have referred- travelled first class to New Zealand while the troupe travelled second class and the purpose of  Dr Battersby  's visit to New Zealand was nothing more nor less than to impress the Prime Minister that she was the right person for the appointment. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The purpose of negativing the motion for the adjournment of the Senate is to allow us to finish the debate on this Bill. The IAC report ought not to be discarded. There have been certain socio-economic breakdowns of attendances at cultural functions which show that in spite of what the Australia Council has done in the past there is a heavy preponderance of middle class attendance. Unless the Australia Council alters its way and unless we begin to reform at the top this development of elitism in the arts will continue. I suggest that those who criticise the Industries Assistance Commission report and question the background of that investigation should read an article in the  National Times  of 18 October by P. P. McGuinness under the heading 'Why Subsidise the Arts '. It says that the IAC report is a valuable report when one comes to consider the future of the arts. I have referred to matters which I will again take up with the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  during the debate on the estimates. I want to find out without taking up time at the Committee stage why we should fund an organisation with $19m. I do not say that that is too much for the arts. Our society should be prepared to spend and I do not agree with  Senator Davidson  that the arts should be financed by private patronage. Private patronage I do not deny, but society patronage through Government is a must. Perhaps $ 19m is not enough; nevertheless, that is the level of funding. I question the IS per cent administrative cost to distribute $19m. The Minister will appreciate that that administrative cost is far too high for a distribution of $ 1 9m. It is patronage of those who apparently intend to patronise. That is how it has been working. 
Let me put another point to the Minister. I possibly will ask in the debate on the Estimates why it is necessary to pay a level 5 salary to the general manager for a period of 7 years, a salary of about $30,000 to $33,000-1 am not certain of that figure and perhaps the Minister can give me the exact figure- to supervise the distribution of $ 1 9m and a staff of 1 83 people. I refer the Minister to his own department or the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and suggest that he find out what are the responsibilities of a man or woman in that department on a salary of $30,000. He will find that a person at that level is supervising perhaps 1800 employees. I ask the Minister to give me somewhere along the line a breakdown or classification of those who are paid out of this IS per cent administrative charge. Why is it necessary to pay such a high figure to someone for the supervision of 1 83 employees? What salaries are the others receiving? 
Furthermore, to save time during the Committee stage and so that the Minister may give me an answer at the time when we discuss the Estimates Committees' reports, I ask: Why is it necessary in the distribution of $ 19m to have a rental charge, which includes the provision of $900,000 a year for accommodation of 1 83 people. 
This legislation is perpetuating that state of affairs. We ought to look carefully at the levels of remuneration established by the legislation and confer with the Public Service Board to introduce some form of relativity in these salaries. Surely that is a reasonable criticism to make together with the other criticisms I have made. Surely it is reasonable to criticise on the basis that this body does not need that level of administrative cost to distribute $20m to various societies and others in the community including, at the grass roots level, those organisations that have developed of their own volition, in order to lift the cultural level of our society. 
I make no further points at this stage as I believe I have made my argument sufficiently. I have been questioned about raising the matter of writs, charges and complaints to the AuditorGeneral. I have made serious complaints. I ask the Minister to take these matters into consideration when he has discussions with the appropriate Minister as to the implementation of the legislation that we are passing at this late hour today. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I apologise for the confusion beforehand but we did break the order. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  was standing in for another Minister and one report was missing. In the circumstances I am not surprised that we were all confused. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Can the Minister for Education provide assurances that the announced 2 per cent growth projected for education throughout the next 2 years of the current triennium will be maintained? Can the Minister outline proposals regarding the cost supplementation for the rest of 1976-77 and for the future? Can the Minister assure the Senate that the Schools Commission will not be altered to exclude its responsibilities for government schools? Has the Government considered any changes in the composition of the Schools Commission? If so, what representation is being considered? 
We have before us the Homes Savings Grant Amendment Bill 1976 which makes certain amendments to the existing legislation and, I believe, brings the position of the homes savings grant back to that which existed before the Liberal and Country Parties lost government in 1972. The Australian Labor Party when in government instituted new proposals to assist people purchasing homes. Honourable senators will recall that the Labor Government endeavoured to ease in some way the burden of interest that faced those who had purchased homes and those who intended to purchase homes. The interest burden, the inflationary pressure that existed in the community, was created almost entirely by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. But, of course, as the burden continues to persist, it can also be placed at the feet of the present Government. 
High interest rates have been and continue to be a result of continuing inflation. For some reason there is an expectation in the community that the value of money should be maintained during a period of inflation. Those who have savings and assets demand that those savings and assets must maintain their value. It seems that the method by which they maintain the value of their savings is to expect a particularly high interest rate. Previous governments and the present Government have gone along with the situation of maintaining high interest rates in order to satisfy the needs of a particular section of the community which could possibly make a sacrifice more easily than could those who have no savings at all. The persistence of high interest rates has placed an exceptional burden on those people who are purchasing homes. The interest rates on home loans at present average about 10&gt;/4 per cent. That means that the instalment bill at the end of the month is becoming excessive and, as I said before, is a very heavy burden upon the home purchaser. 
The previous Labor Government endeavoured to correct this situation by giving substantial taxation rebates on interest paid. I do not think that what the Labor Government was doing was properly understood by the community. I think that if people in the community had understood it they would have been less angry with the Labor Government than they subsequently proved to be at election time. The present Government has decided that giving a tax rebate on interest payments is not a way in which to assist home purchasers. It has decided that it will re-institute the homes savings grant scheme. That is the purpose of this legislation. I was not scheduled to speak in the debate on this Bill and I confess that I do not have the Bill before me. Perhaps I may be trusting too much upon memory, but my memory is good enough to make the clear statement that what the Government proposes will not be a success. It was not a success previously when the grant being given was much smaller, because all that the giving of the grant did was to lift the cost of a house by almost the same amount as the grant. 
Under this legislation the position will be exactly the same. The amount under this legislation will be much higher. The legislation will lift considerably the price of a home and will place a greater disadvantage upon those who are not eligible for the grant. There are many people in the community who are not favourably placed. What do we have? We have a situation in which people will find greater difficulty in purchasing a home or, if they have purchased a home, a greater difficulty in making the repayments. Having recovered from the disorganisation which followed a sudden change in the program, I think we can proceed with the Homes Savings Grant Amendment Bill. I do not know what is proposed. I do not doubt that later in the day we will be debating the Appropriation Bill, and the speakers who are listed will be available. 
I take this opportunity on the second reading of the Appropriation Bills to raise one or two matters which concern the appropriation, that is, the expenditure of moneys. The investigation that the Senate undertakes is for the purpose of making certain that the moneys provided by the Government are wisely spent. I think in the Senate we take ourselves seriously, as we should, on the Estimates Committees, sometimes on the first reading of money Bills and sometimes on the second reading of Appropriation Bills. They give us an opportunity to voice criticism, an opportunity to the Ministers to take up those criticisms and questions and go back to the departments and seek from their heads of the departments answers to the questions. It makes this Parliament and this House a responsible body and a body to whom public servants must defer. 
The tendency has been, and this has been my experience while a member of the Party in government, for public servants in some way to resent any supervision which the Parliament imposed. Many of them who came before Estimates Committees and before this House seemed to be of the impression that we were here merely to allocate moneys and not in any way to supervise that allocation of moneys, that we were here merely to lay down policy but that they, the public servants, were the ones who were to determine how that policy was to be carried out. Nothing is further from the truth. The truth is that the House of Representatives and the Senate are elected for the purpose of governing on behalf of the people. The public servants are exactly what the term means; they are the servants of the Parliament. Being servants of the Parliament they are servants of the people. On a couple of occasions I have had some trenchant criticisms to make of public servants and the heads of departments. The answer given to me sometimes by my own Ministers was that these public servants were without defence. That is not correct. Public servants, in their own way, are capable of defending themselves. They seem to be able to carry out correspondence, to meet on interdepartmental committees and to make all sorts of criticisms of members of Parliament, and appear to feel free to make those comments without any complaint being laid by a member of Parliament in this place. It has often been said by Ministers in defence of their public servants that they are defenceless and that in some way they ought to be protected from comment made under privilege. I think that any public servant who is criticised in the Parliament has the right to answer that criticism on his own behalf, and no one denies him that right. 
-I had my views about that matter on that occasion. I may be in some way going against the opinion within my Party, but even at that stage I thought that those members of the Public Service should have responded to the questions asked of them in this place. I know I felt that way at the time, but party discipline, which I accept as a necessary discipline, determined that one could not speak out at that time. But from time to time, such as now when I am on my feet, one can make the comment that members of the Houses of Parliament- the House of Representatives and the Senate- have a right to receive answers to their questions, even though I considered that the motives behind the questions asked of the public servants last year were questionable. But no matter how questionable the motives may have been, I do not think that the public servants had a right to withdraw behind some privilege and refuse to answer the questions. If they have that right our Estimates Committees are senseless committees. They cannot search out information as they should, and Parliament becomes a cipher; this Senate becomes a cipher. 
I am not as conversant with history as the honourable senator. I will take his word on that. I may be taking a risk in so doing, but I have found him to be correct on many other occasions. I remember saying on one occasion that the Greeks had the correct way of selecting a parliament- they put all the names in a hat.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack pointed out that people did not have hats in those days and that they placed the names in some sort of a receptacle. The honourable senator was correct on that occasion, and perhaps he is correct on this occasion. I wish to take this opportunity to ask the Government one or two questions concerning the Department of the Environment, Housing and Community Development and the Department of Science. Just exactly what are those departments doing about the Great Barrier Reef? Many of us in this place have always accepted the Great Barrier Reef as being one of the finest eco-systems in the world. It is a very delicate ecosystem, an eco-system of great beauty. I think that honourable senators on both sides of the chamber have quickly supported any proposition which was designed to protect the Great Barrier Reef. 
The problem has been that the sovereignty, the responsibility in this matter, was never properly established. Only recently a ruling was given that this Parliament had the responsibility for and sovereignty over the waters of the Great Barrier Reef to the low water mark. Having achieved that responsibility and authority after much struggle through various committees, investigations and challenges to the High Court, I believed that by now we would have taken certain decisions which would have led to further investigation of the threats that face the Great Barrier Reef. Certain decisions have been made regarding oil drilling on the Reef. 
It has always been considered that the islands and the area 3 miles around them were, and still remain, the responsibility of Queensland, and that the reefs are part of the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. 
I wish that the Commonwealth Government would do that. It would clear up doubts about the islands, the surrounds to the islands and the area 3 miles out from those islands. In any case, I am putting the problem. I think that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has underlined the problem and that he supports a solution to the problem. I think that the main concern of all of us is that the eco-system is under threat from a variety of directions. Some sanity has prevailed as far as oil drilling of the Reef is concerned. Some bans have been placed on oil drilling, and I doubt whether oil drilling will take place on the Great Barrier Reef, no matter which Federal government happens to be in power. But there is a threat from pollution coming down the rivers, from over-fishing and from overcollection by tourists. In the main, there is a threat to the Great Barrier Reef from the crown of thorns starfish. This Parliament and the Queensland Parliament have not been well served in this direction by the various investigations that have been undertaken by scientists. Scientists have a habit of disagreeing. They also have a habit of looking to the interests of thenown universities and to the funding of their own universities and they come into competition in that area. One would have thought that they would have been satisfied to stay in competition in that area and at least be honest in their scientific approach to problems. My view is that there has been bickering between the scientists which has in some way clouded their scientific judgment regarding the starfish problem on the Great Barrier Reef. What has happened is that this has enabled the Queensland Government to slip in between the conflicting opinions of the scientists and to take the view: 'Well, since they disagree perhaps we can do nothing about it'. Perhaps the Queensland Government takes the view held by some scientists that there is no problem. The easiest way to solve any sort of a problem is to accept that there is no problem and to say that therefore one has to do nothing about it. 
I ask both the Department of Science and the Department of the Environment, Housing and Community Development to say what progress has been made in this area. What steps have been taken to protect the Great Barrier Reef against the spread of starfish? Recently reports on this question have been brought down. Each of those reports has indicated that the starfish problem remains. There has been some support for a theory that it is a cyclic problem, but there is no real evidence to indicate that it is without doubt a cyclic problem. I would like to know whether in the future the Department of Science will take any responsibility in this area. Or has that Department now passed the responsibility to the Department of the Environment, Housing and Community Development? If the Department of the Environment, Housing and Community Development is now responsible for this area, what funds are to be made available for the research that every investigation has suggested should be carried out? It has been suggested that there should be an increased amount of research. This is an area in which one cannot allow budgetary considerations to have any effect. If wheatfields or vineyards or some other area were threatened with commercial calamity something would have been done because there would have been an immediate threat to somebody's economic survival. The economic consequences to the Great Barrier Reef are long term. Because they are long term, there is less inclination to take action in the short term. There is no immediate economic impact. That means that there must be a greater acceptance of responsibility by those who provide moneys and those who make the laws, and that is this place. 
I would like  Senator Carrick,  the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, at some stage to make a statement on what is happening to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. It was set up under legislation brought down by the previous Government. It established an authority of 3 members, who were prominent in the environmental and scientific field, to supervise a consultative committee of up to 18 persons. Both the Barrier Reef Authority and the Consultative Committee would do all the things necessary to protect the future of the Great Barrier Reef, as we would wish it to be protected, as a great, unique and magnificent ecosystem. Apparently it took quite some time to appoint the members of the Barrier Reef Authority. Apparently it was a matter of the Queensland Government making its appointment and the Australian Government making its appointment also. 
There were some rather rapid changes in the ministry previously. As the responsibility moved from Minister to Minister, the important matter of appointments to the Great Barrier Reef Authority was postponed. Under the new Government there were continuing, inexplicable and unexplained delays. Somewhere I heard announced that members of the Barrier Reef Authority had been appointed. What seemed to be evident was that no staffing or funding was to be provided and the Great Barrier Reef Authority was to find itself very much in the position of the Australian Heritage Commission. There have been some champions of the Heritage Commission on both sides of this place. I think some legislation on this matter is coming forward. During that debate we can perhaps question what is intended with the Heritage Commission. The nonprovision of staff and funds for the Barrier Reef Authority became evident early in the year and has been the subject of many questions in this place. I question the future of the Great Barrier Reef Authority both so far as staffing and financing are concerned. What staff has been provided? What actions have been taken? What has been done? When will we hear of any results? 
Appointments have been made to the Great Barrier Reef Authority. I am a little regretful, without in any way denegrating the men appointed, that we did not appoint people with an international reputation in this field, having in mind that the Great Barrier Reef is not only a national responsibility but also an international responsibility. Many ecologists and environmentalists from overseas have made specialised studies of the problems that face the Great Barrier Reef. They have made investigations of reefs of less importance, of less variety and less complexity overseas. Nevertheless, they are experts and are in advance of our people in this field. There is no doubt that eventually, if the Department of Science gears itself correctly and the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development supports it, our experts will become the leading experts. Through the Institute of Marine Science at Townsville our experts will be the marine experts. I question the funding. I question the matter of staff. I hope the Minister will answer those questions in due course. 
Another matter that I raise relates to the Consultative Committee. Under the Labor Government there were to be as many as 18 people on that Committee. I am not certain of the figure to which it has been reduced. Perhaps I can be given that information. In any case, there seems to be emerging evidence that all the positions on the Consultative Committee were to be taken up by representatives of various departments, not because they were concerned about the future of the Great Barrier Reef as such but because they were concerned that not one of their own vested interests should be affected. That may be admirable. If there were eighteen on the Committee at least each department would see that its rights were protected, whether it was fisheries or wildlife or whether it was Aboriginal Affairs. Each of these departments-perhaps has a right to be represented on the Committee, but not to the exclusion of those people who for a lifetime have had an interest in the Barrier Reef and its protection, not to the exclusion of representatives of various conservation organisations, not to the exclusion of scientists who put their reputations on the line to protect the Great Barrier Reef. 
The Consultative Committee, one would have expected, would consist of sufficient people with this background to enable it to carry out its proper role- to advise the Authority on what the Committee considers was in the best interests of the Barrier Reef. Although the Authority in the first place may appear to be a step forward- I hope it will be a step forward in the protection of the Great Barrier Reef- if it was not properly representative, properly supported or properly advised it could dismember the Reef. It could come to decisions to exploit the Reef. It could set aside areas for fishing. It could set aside areas for mineral exploitation of the corals of the Reef for limestone and cement production. It could set aside areas for tourists. It could set aside areas for spear fishermen. If it were to proceed in that way it would do a disservice to the Great Barrier Reef because the Great Barrier Reef has been considered by leading scientists, both here and overseas, to be one ecosystem in delicate balance. If one were to interfere in a particular way in one area it would affect other areas. There could be some inclination on the part of the Authority, if wrongly appointed, especially if the Consultative Committee is also wrongly appointed, to take decisions which would be to the disadvantage of the Great Barrier Reef. 
I repeat the questions that I have asked. Has the responsibility previously held by the Department of Science been passed to the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development? I refer particularly to the responsibility for research and support of the Great Barrier Reef. If it has been passed to the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, what has been done by the Department? Have the appointments to the Great Barrier Reef Authority been completed? I think they have. Have members of the Consultative Committee been appointed? Who is on the Consultative Committee? What meetings have been held by the Authority? What meetings have been held by the Consultative Committee? I have something further to say on the matter of turtles. I will say that after dinner. I give the Senate forewarning that I wish to speak on turtles. I will be remembered in this place for 2 things. One is turtles. The other is the installation of flashing lights in the toilets. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was speaking on matters which concern me and which I hope concern all members of the Senate. They include the Great Barrier Reef, the need for its protection and the need for research to be done for its protection. I must say that, enlivened by a hearty dinner, what goes with a hearty dinner and discussion with people whom many of us meet in this place, I came to a conclusion that I did not think I would be prepared to announce publicly, namely, that I am a protectionist and a supporter of high tariffs in the interests of protecting manufacturing industry and those whom it employs. Having made that confession and having startled some of my National Country Party colleagues who believe that only those who work in rural areas, have rural occupations or own rural establishments should have protection, let me say that I believe that a nation as small as ours has a great responsibility to see that the 14 million people to whom we are responsible live at a substantial level. I believe that those 14 million people should be protected first, before we consider the need to protect others. We can do both things. We can reach the point where we can protect ourselves and have a comfortable level of living that we can transmit to others in less developed countries. 
Having made that confession. I come back to the matter other than the matter of the Great Barrier Reef that I want to raise. I remind the Senate of the turtle farming project in Torres Strait. This is a project into which I was suddenly introduced in the office of then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, Gordon Bryant. There has been a succession of Ministers since then, but there has been only one head of the Department over the whole period, which seems to indicate that Ministers have less chance of survival than heads of departments have. I do not want to be enticed into that area; I want to avoid it if I can. I want to make a personal explanation which perhaps I should have made at the time the matter was brought to my attention; I think that is a cliche that one uses in this place. I want to explain something which needs to be explained. 
When I became involved indirectly, and rather forcibly indirectly at a later stage, in the Applied Ecology Pty Ltd units, I was involved because of a need for some restructuring due to an apparent misuse of public moneys. Honourable senators know how sensitive I am to the misuse of public moneys. I was enticed to take a responsibility, together with a member of the House of Representatives at that time, Ray 
Thorburn, and an accountant of some prominence in Canberra, Jim Neill. We were quite astounded- subsequently our attitudes and positions were substantiated by the AuditorGeneral, who made an investigation- at the open-ended arrangements which had been made with Applied Ecology, headed then by  Dr Bustard,  for the running of turtle farms and associated projects, such as crocodile farming, witchetty grub farming and emu farming, using the ecology in an applied way for the benefit of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people. It was a concept which sought to assist the Aboriginal people and which did not seek to do any damage to the ecology. It did not succeed in either aim. In my view it did not assist the ecology in any way; rather it did some damage to it. In my view it certainly did not assist the Aboriginal or Torres Strait Island people. 
At the time of my association with Applied Ecology I considered that the turtle farming project and its concept could be described as a hoax. I have since described it as a continuing hoax. It started under a Liberal-Country Party Government; it continued under a Labor Government; and now it continues to exist under a LiberalNational Country Party Government. Somewhere along the line someone will have to accept responsibility for the many hundreds of thousands of dollars which have been spent on the project. I am suggesting that the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  should have taken an initiative in this area. It is an area that must be of concern to him because it has some relationship to scientific investigation. In fact, a leading member of the staff of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is a member of the board of Applied Ecology. He is a man of considerable standing. I cannot think of his name at the moment, but I can well remember his face and many of the contributions he made to the consideration of the problems of Applied Ecology when he came on to the board. It is also a matter for consideration by the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. It should be a matter of concern for the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, but unfortunately it has never really become so. At stages it should have become a concern for that body. 
My reasons for raising the matter are that there is continuing expenditure in this area and that the project is doomed to failure. What I am concerned about is that I am now going to get the blame for its failure. This is one of the things that caused me to rise to my feet and remind the Senate of the turtle farming project. At one stage well over $ 1 m a year was being expended by Applied Ecology. Those of us who were on the board managed to bring the expenditure down to a reasonable amount of some $700,000 and to alter the balance of payments which was in favour of those who were white and did not need the financial assistance that was being provided as much as those who were black. We weighted it considerably in favour of those who were black. It would be interesting to find out exactly what the situation is at present. During the consideration of the Estimates I may raise the question. 
It has come to my attention that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is blaming me for the continuing failure of the project to lift itself up and to justify the weighty expenditure on it. It is being said that one action of mine that is responsible is my statement to the farmers in the Torres Strait to this effect: 'We cannot justify the mutilation of turtles no matter how just the cause may be to assist the Torres Strait Islanders. The mutilation of the turtles in this cause is not justified on any consideration'. One must accept that at the time some thousands of turtles were being held in the Torres Strait Island farms under the most unhygienic conditions imaginable. One could smell the turtle farms on Murray Island about 5 miles out to sea if the wind were blowing from that island. The filth in which the turtles existed was unimaginable. The Torres Strait islanders said that the result was that they were put off eating turtle meat, which was a basic part of their diet. 
One might ask why they would keep turtles in those conditions. If they kept a certain number they were entitled to be classed as turtle farmers and an amount of $45, $50 or $60 a week would be paid to them. Certain farms consisted of trenches about 9 inches deep, 12 feet long and 6 feet across. The turtles which were kept in these trenches mutilated one another to the extent that some of their flippers were completely eaten away. Cannibalism was rife in these particular turtle farms. Any reasonable or sensible personI consider myself to be such a person- associated with such a project would not tolerate those conditions, and it was necessary to start again. After some investigation of the whole project it was necessary to make the decision that this sort of practice should come to an end. Perhaps I was responsible for that decision. I might add also that some of the turtles on Murray Island were heavily infested with worms. A parasite which is carried by sardines, upon which the turtles were fed almost entirely, transmitted itself to the turtles and they became highly infested. Can anyone deny the wisdom of the decision that the conditions under which the turtles were held should come to an end? 
So at that stage a decision was made that, as scientists were being appointed to the board and as an impact statement was to be prepared, the existing turtles which were suffering under these conditions should either be destroyed or be released. Those that could be released and which were not in a mutilated condition were tagged, recorded and released. Those that were mutilated were destroyed. I suggest that it was the right decision to make, that the turtles be so released either through extermination or by release to the sea. What is now being peddled by the department is that that decision is the reason for the continuing failure of the turtle farms. 
Although I am enticed by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack I do not want to go further at this stage until that statement is made officially in a Public Accounts Committee report or some other report and becomes officially the reason for the setback in the turtle farm project. I am only making the statement here that I will not accept the advice that has been given to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  that the failure of the turtle farm project to some extent stems from a decision that was made when I was  chairman  of Applied Ecology. I say that the decision was the correct one, that if the turtle farm project was to go through a period of research all existing turtles had to be released. No matter what anyone else says, there was no value in these turtles. To kill them, stuff them and sell them on the Australian market proved not to be viable because there was no market and, as it turned out, the cost of that procedure was such that the end price was so high that no person would be prepared to purchase the stuffed turtles. 
-The turtle farmers in Singapore were producing a turtle that sold on the market for $8. Admittedly they were not in the same class as the stuffed turtles produced in Australia, but our selling price is $70. It just would not have been possible for the Australian industry to survive without a heavy subsidy. It would have to be subsidised to the tune of many hundreds of thousands of dollars. I put it to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack that the turtle farm project in Torres Strait was based on the Mariculture project in the Caribbean, and that project has failed. It went bankrupt, it closed down and the investors lost many millions of dollars. Our project which was set up in the Torres Strait Islands was not thought out along commercial lines. The farms were far from a market. The project was not geared to the same extent as the Caribbean experiment. It was doomed to failure. It was like the old Indian blanket concept that was developed in the United States of America. That concept was: 'You weave blankets, we buy blankets and we will try to sell blankets.' What we have done with the turtles is exactly the same. 
The project is a means of distributing moneys to the Torres Strait Island people. But in the process we have mutilated the turtles and damaged the ecology. The mortality rate of the turtles was so high that we were really doing the opposite to what was intended by the Applied Ecology project. The proof of the pudding will be in the eating. In due course it will be proved that what I am saying is correct. We cannot take the eggs or the young turtles from the rookeries, endeavour to raise them under the conditions in which they are raised in the Torres Strait, spend a considerable time out fishing in order to feed the turtles, and make it a viable proposition. Admittedly we are caught in a situation where unless some alternative is provided to the Torres Strait Island people the turtle project will continue. It is a means of making payments to the Torres Strait Island people. That is the bind. A hundred Torres Strait Island people depend upon the continuing funding of this project. 
They are still doing it. I think that I have stirred  Senator Cavanagh  into entering the debate. I notice that he is making notes and that he has put his name on the speakers 'list. 
I may have missed some of the points. I have crossed swords with  Senator Cavanagh  before. I am more comfortable in crossing swords on this side of the House than I was on the other side of the House. 
I have read the MayneCarr report. If I may say so, the Mayne-Carr report depended very much on the recommendations of  Mr Smart.  I would say that  Mr Smart  would have some ideas on turtle farming. He certainly produced a report which the government of the day accepted, but  Mr Smart  has got himself into difficulties in other directions. I would say that  Mr Smart  may have been wrong. I suggest that he is wrong in putting forward such a favourable report in relation to these turtle farms. I might say to  Senator Cavanagh  that the proof in the end will be whether they succeed. 
-That is a possibility; perhaps they are not carrying out the recommendations of the Mayne-Carr report. But are they in any way being continually, shall we say, bemused or misled by the Smart report? The Smart report is the basis upon which the whole project continues because it says that the project is an economically viable proposition. My view of it is - 
Yes. Mariculture, after many years and after expending a lot of money, did succeed in artificially breeding in captivity two or three turtles. It took them a long time and it took a lot of money and they have subsequently failed.  Senator Cavanagh  will realise that the recommendation towards the end of the Smart report was that we could establish a market by rearing turtles to one-year-old in the Torres Strait, then sending them across to the Caribbean and selling them to Mariculture. That was not on on 2 bases: Firstly, under our laws we could not export them and, secondly, it was not an economical proposition to transport yearling turtles all the way to the Caribbean to have them raised to 70 lb or 80 lb and then have them slaughtered. If I may say so, any primary producer who has raised even a fowl- perhaps we should have  Senator McLaren  up there- and who was taken through the Torres Straits and looked at this project would have said that it was not on; it just was not a commercial proposition. The only way in which it could be justified was that it was providing some sort of income for the Torres Strait Islanders. But a great deal of patronage and a great deal of elitism has developed in the running of these turtle farms. That in itself is a sad story. 
It came to the point where people earned an income by looking after and maintaining ISO turtles. Despite a considerable mortality rate among the turtles, those people were receiving some $50 or $60 a week; it may be more now. 
Perhaps it should have been more if the job occupied them, as it was supposed to, for a full 40 hours a week. The end result was that people were diverted from their normal pursuits of using the riches of the sea to raising turtles and receiving a sum of money which they themselves knew they were receiving under false pretences. The Torres Strait Islanders were laughing at us. Make no mistake; they think we are a bunch of suckers and they are right. 
I do not know about the Hay report, but if I can think about the Hay report - 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I  present the following petition from 5 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the Government of the day whatever political party. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the enquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education. If, as the Minister said in answer to a previous question, education in Australia is not under threat, how can he explain the considerable apprehension amongst education authorities and organisations concerning the future of technical and further education in Australia? Is the Minister aware that this concern has been expressed because of several factors which include, firstly, the slashing of funds for the Technical and Further Education Commission for 1977 to an extent that the allocation falls well below the projected needs of the second report of the Commission; secondly, the high incidence of chronic unemployment amongst youth; and thirdly, the need for considerable retraining amongst the work force, taking into account the fact that in 1971 more than 71 per cent of males and 88 per cent of females held no formal post-school qualifications of any kind? In view of these facts, can the Minister provide guidelines as to when TAFE institutions will be upgraded along the lines of the second report of the Commission? 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, could I ask just a quick question to clarify a figure? 
Although the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  is not prepared to answer questions about the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, perhaps he will assure us that there is some surveillance of the expenditure by the Organisation by the Auditor-General or someone in his Office. Is there a select audit of the expenditure of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in the same way as there is a select supervision of it? That assurance may give us some sort of confidence and allay the worries that  Senator Sibraa  and  Senator McLaren  have expressed. 
I must intrude - 
-by leave- I move: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1976-77 In Committee 
Consideration resumed. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  We are considering Group C as a whole. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Have anti-cyclone measures been incorporated in new houses built in Darwin since cyclone Tracy. If so, how many of the houses are being built to withstand cyclones, and what degree of stress are they capable of withstanding. 
Is the Department currently analysing the need for anti-cyclonic housing for regions most affected by cyclones, such as in Queensland, the Northern Territory and northern Western Australia. 
Will the Minister provide details of such research and its current progress. 
I present 2 petitions from 123 and 210 citizens of Australia respectively, as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general inquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the inquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received, and first petition read. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I am certain that the question will be of interest also to the Minister for Education and to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is the Minister aware of the fact that it is estimated that in this financial year the apprenticeship intake will be 35 000, which is approximately 10 000 less than is required? In view of the massive unemployment rate amongst youth of 36 per cent of the total unemployed, can the Minister outline what steps will be taken to improve the apprenticeship intake situation? Will any measures include subsidies to employers for apprenticeships? What reforms and improvements to the National Apprenticeship Advisory Council are envisaged to overcome this chronic problem? Further, is the Government prepared to extend the period over which the subsidy is paid to three or four years instead of its being concentrated in the first year? 
-I resist the temptation to take up the remarks of  Senator Withers.  I trust that he will give us an opportunity to debate his stance. I refer to Division 143 which appears on page 22. 1 refer to the expenditure for leaders of the Opposition and parliamentary parties,  deputy  leaders of the Opposition and Whips. I direct the attention of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  to the fact that Whips are mentioned in the heading. I ask him to consider a change in what is becoming a practice- 2 governments have done so- of allocating a pool of staff to the Opposition without indicating exactly where that staff is to be placed. This practice led to grave anomalies during the period that the present Government members were in opposition and has led to a similar anomaly and injustice now that we are in Opposition. I suggest that the Minister should look carefully at denning establishment staff rather than allowing the leader of an Opposition Party the right to allocate such staff. I do not want to go any more deeply into the matter except to bring it to the Minister's attention. Within the Opposition Party we are taking steps to correct the anomalies. However, a precedent has been created which has led to members of staff doing the same amount of work, the same type of work and accepting the same type of responsibilities being paid at different rates. I do not think anyone intended that that should occur. 
I wish to refer to Division 5 10- Australia Council, and Division 515- Auditor-General's Office. I shall deal with Division 5 10 first. Let me say just briefly by way of introduction that I agree with what  Senator Rae  has said and also with what the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  added concerning the need to supervise statutory corporations. Here is a line of expenditure of $22,900,000. It is a sum made up entirely of public moneys. This statutory corporation comes within the third category mentioned by the Minister for Administrative Services. It depends entirely on the Government or the taxpayers for support. One would expect that such a corporation would take extreme care to ensure that there was no extravagance or misuse of public moneys, bearing in mind that such a misuse could lead to a reduction by government in the amounts made available for the purposes for which the corporation was set up. In this case, the corporation is the Australia Council. All the investigations, the Auditor-General's reports and the qualifications that have been expressed in various reports tend to bring not only the corporation but also its program into disrepute. The comments that I make are not destructive. I am not about to propose that because of continuing errors on the part of the Australia Council it ought to be disbanded. But nothing would lead more rapidly to a disbandment than the Australia Council continuing its present practices. 
The Australia Council has been under investigation by several bodies. The Joint Committee of Public Accounts is one, the Industries Assistance Commission is another and the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts has before it a reference concerning the Australia Council. During the period that I was  Chairman  of that Committee, information started to flow to the Committee which caused it to question the methods of the Australia Council. I wish to raise now specific matters which I was not able to raise at the time the Senate was debating the Australia Council Amendment Bill. The Minister will recall that that Bill was brought into this chamber on the Thursday of the last week of sitting. The Government required that Bill to be passed because certain moneys had to be made available to various organisations. No one on this side of the chamber wanted to prevent the flow of money to programs which were being held up. Even  Senator Davidson  objected strongly to the fact that insufficient time was given to debate the Bill. I also made a rather hurried contribution at that time. Some comments that I made may have indicated that I was being malicious. I have given some thought to that possibility. I think it is in the interest of the public and the Senate that I deal in more detail with the matters I raised at that time. 
I agree with  Senator Wright  that, if there is an area of concern within the Estimates or if there is some question concerning the amount of money allocated, the Senate has a right to refer the Bill back to the House of Representatives with a request that it look again at the particular allocation. I do not go further along the Une and agree with  Senator Withers  ' suggestion that once the request has been considered by the House of Representatives and sent back to the Senate we should persist with the request. The Opposition will take up that matter at another stage. The first question I ask is whether the amount of $22,900,000 was arrived at as a budgetary allocation without consideration being given to the surpluses which had accrued and which had not been expended by the Australia Council. Is it a fact that before this allocation was made and before the Estimates were considered a single cheque for $1,500,000 was signed by the officers of the Australia Council and deposited with the Bank of New South Wales? I think it was the North Sydney branch. I would like to know who authorised the transfer, why it was authorised and whether some members of staff objected to the signing of that cheque and the transfer of that money. Was that accrued surplus, if it did exist, taken into consideration when the amount of $22,900,000 was arrived at? 
This is an area in which I agree very strongly with  Senator Wright.  I was not at the hearings of Estimates Committee A. Perhaps I should have been. But the new responsibilities I have as Opposition Whip- some people say they have gone to my head- have given me a considerable amount of extra work and it is not possible for me to participate on committees or even to remain on the committee in which I was interested, the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. A question which needs to be answered is: Has this statutory corporation accumulated reserves and has it deposited those reserves in such a way that it earns itself an income? To my mind, that would mean that the program of the Australia Council had not been carried out properly during the year of the previous allocation. In any case, as certain restraints were required by the Government it was absolutely necessary for the Government, when it was making the allocation for the coming year, to know exactly why the money was transferred. If there is any question as to the legality of the transfer, the matter ought to be properly investigated by the Minister, who is responsible in an indirect way for the Australia Council. 
The next point that needs to be raised- I raised it previously- is why there should be such a high level of administrative costs in the distribution of $22m. I think the amount for administration costs in 1975-76 was about $3.43m, or 15 per cent of the total allocation. I ask the Minister whether these figures are correct. We are told that there is a staff level of 140 to 146 people and that that staff needs administrative support of between $3m and $4m. Is it correct that the head of the statutory organisation receives a salary of $33,000, and is that figure justified? Below the chief administrator there are 2 deputy executive officers. One is concerned with finance and the level of his salary is $25,481. The other deputy executive officer is concerned with policy. I believe that the position is at present suitably vacant. The salary is $25,48 1. There is a director of research at a salary of $23,246. There is a director of arts information with a salary range of $19,000 to $20,000. Is there a director of community arts? Is his salary $25,098? Is there a principal project officer at a salary rate of $ 1 9,946? Is there a senior council consultant at a rate of $19,146? This is the administrative set-up to distribute $20m. Is there a director of administration at $19,1 46? Apparently the senior council consultant runs the Melbourne office. There is also a director of administration, I believe- I hope it will be verified- a class 2 officer at $19,146. Is there a chief finance officer at $16,580? Are there 6 class 8 officers who are closely associated with the administrative head, at a rate of $15,297? Are there 6 directors of the Board, with a two to 3-year contract, at a level of $25,098? I ask the Minister to verify these positions and levels of remuneration established for a statutory corporation. It has not been revealed anywhere that these are the levels of remuneration. 
I think it is necessary for us to express some concern that this organisation should have been set up in such a way as to take up substantially the moneys that should be made available for the development of the arts throughout Australia. These are matters which need consideration. Of the 140 officers I think there are some 40 officers who are at a high level of remuneration- 40 administrative officers out of 140 officers. With these high level appointments there is a high level of associated expenditure. This is where the Senate ought to be carrying out further investigations. Again I agree with  Senator Rae  that the Estimates committees should continue beyond the short period for which we have given them responsibility and should be able to take up matters such as the one which I am raising now. Let me ask the Committee whether there is justification for these senior executive officers engaging in extravagant exercises at the expense of the public purse. Is it acceptable that these administrative officers should have access to funds in support of their operation, to an almost unlimited extent, without proper supervision? I see that my time has nearly expired. Perhaps I will have an opportunity to continue my remarks if no other honourable senator wishes to speak. 
-I thank  Senator Wright. His  concern is the same as mine. I say to the Committee that there is no malice intended against any person. There may be some heavy criticism of the administrative behaviour. I hesitate to indicate that in one way there has been an extravagance that is not supportable. Over a period the Australia Council has carried out a very substantial lobby of important people in the community and a substantial lobby of important members of this Parliament, of all parties and of both governments. It is not acceptable to me. While I was  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, and we had before us the Australia Council reference, messages were coming in an indirect way to me that we should not carry on with the investigation, that the Australia Council had been subjected to too much investigation and that it had so many inquiries to answer that its normal work was being interfered with. I resented strongly that this sort of indirect pressure should be applied. I objected strongly to the administrator of the Council telephoning the Secretary of the Committee and suggesting that our investigations should be delayed. There was never any direct contact with me because, at the various Estimates committee meetings over the years, I locked horns with the Australia Council on matters of administration, disputes and personality clashes among members of the Council. I suppose I would be the last one to be approached directly about this reference. I, and many other senators, would strongly object to being so pressured. I imagine that the present  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts would also strongly object to being misused. 
The administrators of the Australia Council have been guilty of patronage of an exceptionally high level. They have patronised important people. We, as a parliament, must accept the responsibility for setting up the Australia Council. Perhaps we were not aware of the type of organisation that was being set up and the misuse that there would be of such an organisation. Could I illustrate how I believe one member of this Senate was misused by the administrator of the Australia Council? Let me give an example of the type of patronage of which the Australia Council has been guilty. Recently there was an opera series starring Joan Sutherland. There were 10 performances at the Sydney Opera House. The Australia Council purchased 8 tickets for each of the 10 performances. The cost of the tickets ranged from $25 to $45. The cost to the Council was $2,986 for the tickets alone. This is for only one series of performances. 
-This is the interesting part. I will name the people who used the tickets. I have only one list. There may be other lists for other performances. There may be other people on those lists. There may be members of my Party on those lists. On the list which I have there are no members of my Party. It is incidental that I have only one list for the one series of performances. The tickets cost $2,986. After the performance the people who used the tickets were entertained at the Australia Club. The Australia Club is a very select club in Sydney. 
In Sydney it is a select club. The Australia Club No. 1 is especially select. One would question the standards of the Australia Club No. 2. Let me not be diverted. When I give these names, realise that they are merely incidental. Other lists may include other names. It is important for the sake of this exercise to realise that not only were tickets bought and people entertained at an opera but they were subsequently entertained at the Australia Club. The cost of that entertainment was a charge against the Australia Council, against the taxpayer. On 26 July the Bill for entertainment at the Australia Club was $101.05. The people who were entertained were  Dr and Mr Battersby, Mr Mrs Michael  Baume,  Mr and Mrs Brooks  Wilson and  Mr and Mrs Pysden.  Before I go any further let me make it clear that I do not think the people who were invited realised just how the entertainment was being paid for. On 3 1 July the Bill was for $78.26. Again the Battersbys were present together with  Mr and Mrs John  Howard,  Mr and Mrs John  Hunter and  Dr and Mrs H.  Bower. On 6 August the amount was $83.76. In attendance were the Battersbys again,  Mrs Elizabeth  Jeffrey,  Mrs John  Antwill  Dr F.  Hoess  Mr Tom  Hughes, Miss Dita Colvin  Senator Gordon  Davidson and Miss Patsy Zeppell. Again I say I do not think  Senator Davidson  was aware of what was going on. I want to make this point clear at this stage:  Senator Davidson  was misused in this way. If I wanted to be scurrilous about it I would remind  Senator Davidson  that he was entertained in this way on 6 August 1976. On 25 August in this chamber- I made some comments at the timeannounced that the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, of which he is  Chairman,  was not proceeding with its Australia Council reference. I apologise to  Senator Davidson  if he thinks there is some reflection upon his behaviour. All I am saying is that the administrator of the Australia Council is the most expert lobbyist in the business. 
-Senator Wood knows as well as I do who the administrator of the Australia Council happens to be. Let me proceed. On 13 August the amount of entertainment was $95.91. The Battersbys were present again, together with Professor Don Gibson,  Mrs Roseta  Young,  Mr and Mrs Dircks-Dilly  and  Sir William  and Lady Pettingell. On 13 August the amount for supper was $75.25. Again the Battersbys were there along with  Dr Kevin  Starr,  Mr and Mrs Harry  Seidler,  Mrs Bronwyn  Thomas,  Mrs Karin  Lemercier and  Mr and Mrs Craig  Boaden. On 28 August the amount was $62.10. In attendance were the Battersbys,  Dr and Mrs Tom  Farrel  Dr and Mrs Max  Lake,  Mr and Mrs Michael  Griggs. The total claim on the Australia Council for food and wine was $495.73. Gratuity and surcharge- I take it that was for tips- came to $49.63. Parking was 60c. The total claim was $545.96.  Senator Withers  may laugh at it, but he knows what is happening. We set up a statutory corporation to fulfil what we considered a need in the Australian community, and nothing is more directed to this need than the Australia Council and the $22m which the Government had made available. What drives my adrenalin is that people misuse the moneys which are made available and bring the whole program into disrepute. 
-They may be the cultural leaders of Sydney. It seems to me that we have set up a patronage equal to that established by the early Italian princes. This is the scene in New South Wales. I very much doubt that the people who were invited by the Australia Council to entertainment of this sort at this level of expense were aware that the taxpayers were paying for it. This is part of the subtle lobby that I have been speaking of to get the Parliament to continue to support the Australia Council at the level at which it is operating and in the manner in which it is operating. The lobby is directed to both sides of the Parliament. The need for the Government to look carefully at what has been going on and what continues to go on within the Australia Council is urgent. I believe that Professor Karmel, who is the  Chairman  of the Australia Council, should be made clearly aware of the concern of the Senate. When  Senator Davidson  announced that the Australia Council reference to his Committee would not be proceeded with I made some comments. It is to my regret that the reference is still not before that Committee because there are other areas of error. 
Perhaps I can ask the Minister to look at the travel vote within the Australia Council, because my information is that in 1975-76 the Council met with severe difficulties regarding travel expenses. Apparently it had spent more than the vote. Meetings in other States, appointments and visits to country areas were cancelled. Severe restrictions were imposed on staff, board and all members. This bears out what I was saying. The extravagances of the administrators led to curtailment of the program. These restrictions greatly hampered the practical aspects of the Council's support for the arts in the distant 
States, in country areas and small towns and organisations. The trouble could not have been caused by the middle or lower grade staff personnel, most of whom cannot afford to travel or to be away from home. The same cannot be said of some senior officers, whose travel expenses for 1975-76 would be well worth examining. Perhaps an examination of the total spent on travel fares, travel allowances, and taxis and cars- I am talking about inside Australia; I have not gone outside Australia, and I do not intend to because I think I have given the lead- of all officers and consultants above the rank of Division 3, Class 8, would be interesting, particularly the amounts spent by the Chief Executive Officer, the consultant R. Bower and the consultant C. Buttrose. Both of them are now class 2 officers. Officially I am asking for a breakdown of their costs for travel fares, travel allowances, and taxis and cars inside Australia and not particularly overseas, although those figures would be interesting. I do not wish to go further, except to say that there is still deep unrest within the Australia Council, and deep concern by the staff in the Australia Council and by the organisation, the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, which covers them. 
I had asked the Minister the question: Is he satisfied with the explanation given by  Dr Battersby? 
I am not satisfied. I think there was an endeavour to correct the figures I had. I was giving round figures; the percentages were slightly out. But in principle what I was saying is correct. We are faced with the rather awkward problem of how we can justify the Australia Council if it is to be administered and structured so expensively. 
It still is. I am not pushing responsibility entirely on to the Minister, although one could be tempted to do so; but there are no politics in this matter, if I may say so. I think the Minister will have to do some heavy thinking. In any case, the Council is created now and it will be very difficult to alter the structure which has been set up, I take it with the consent of the Public Service Board. If I were the head of a department with 1500 employees I would be looking at the Australia Council and saying to the Public Service Board: 'If that is the level of salary for administering 146 employees and distributing $22m, you should have another look at if. 
If this is going to happen, the Public Service Board should be asked to introduce relativity and so improve conditions for and returns to public servants who have responsibilities far in excess of those who administer the Australia Council. It seems to be to be quite extraordinary that we have other specialist committees which recommend research funds for scientists and scientific groups and which distribute much more money but in a far less expensive way. We have established a vehicle for patronage of the arts which, I believe, will perpetuate what has been established already- an elitism in the arts field. 
It certainly has not worked out the right way. Let us look at what this Government is doing. One would have thought that the Australia Council's program for community arts would have been the most important of all. That was so under our Government and it really should be so under the present Government, so that the general cultural level in the community would be raised and so we would not have to suffer the rubbish on television, because people would be in a better position to judge what is and what is not rubbish. In any case, there would be a swell of talent which would be to our benefit in the long run. Subdivision 1 of division 510 provided for an estimated expenditure for 1975-76 amounting to $1,426,680 for the Council's program for community arts. The estimate for this year is half that amount. I believe that this area is as important as any other. I would say that it is more important, but that is only my judgment. The allocation has been cut in half. The footnote in the explanatory notes says: 
Community arts funds assist festivals, youth, ethnic and many other groups with special artistic needs. Such work is done with local government, and special attention and funds are directed to regions lacking arts services. 
The reason for the cut reads: 
The Community Arts estimates for 1976-77 are based on the assumption that Boards will take over Community Arts responsibilities in their specific an form, with proportionate funds to discharge such responsibilities. 
It is as glib as any statement that has come out of the Australia Council. One would have thought that the Board set up for this purpose would be better able to concentrate on community arts programs. Mark my words, little will be done. I think this expenditure cut is further evidence of the personality approach of the Administrator of the Council. If honourable senators search back through the records, that is what they will find. This is what is happening within the Council. Decisions are being made on the basis of personalities. There have been 40 resignations of members or chairmen of various boards- very important people- since the Council was established. 
-Some of them are people of integrity- and there are many of them around, fortunately. Briefly, let me put these questions to the Minister: Who are the legal advisers to the Ausralia Council? Are they the leading corporation lawyers in Sydney? Why is it necessary to engage such high-powered counsel? Who are the accountants for the Australia Council? I come back to the complaint of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. Its complaint was made by way of a letter to the Auditor-General's Office. I ask the Minister, since it comes under division SIO, what action has the Auditor-General taken to examine the complaints made in a letter, which I spoke about in the Senate about 3 months ago, which makes grave charges against the administators of the Australia Council? Is he carrying out an investigation on the basis of that letter or is the Auditor-General in any way inhibited by the writ which has been issued against the ACOA. 
I want an answer to that question because if the Auditor-General thinks he is under some restraint because a writ has been issued against the ACOA the Senate ought to know. The next thing I want to know is: Who is meeting the cost of the legal expenses for the issue of the writ? Is it the Australia Council and what justification is there for the Australia Council to engage such highly qualified legal counsel? My information is that it has engaged Tom Hughes. Why is it necessary for the Australia Council to engage such qualified counsel? 
And the Australia Council. What is going on? I am not questioning the qualifications of Tom Hughes. I think he is the best. My question is: Why is it necessary, if the Australia Council is paying the legal costs, for the Australia Council to be involved? Who issued the writ? Was it issued by  Dr Battersby  in her own right because she feels herself in some way abused or was the writ taken out by the Council and, if so, why? The important question is: Is the Auditor-General doing something about the letter that comes from a highly respectable organisation which represents the staff? The question raised in the letter was that the staff was asked to do things which they considered to be illegal. That is the brunt of the letter. What is the Auditor-General doing about it? 
The Minister may answer that the AuditorGeneral is investigating it and it is part of this year's investigation and not last year's investigation and that is why it does not appear in this year's report. That would be a reasonable explanation. On the other hand, the Auditor-General may be inhibited by the writ that has been issued. If that is the case another element enters that ought be be carefully examined; whether that writ has been taken out to prejudice the work of the Auditor-General's Department. If that is the case we ought to clarify the powers that the Auditor-General has to proceed to investigate a matter which is brought before him and which affects the expenditures of public money. 
I could go on but I will not. There is sufficient upon which the Minister can build. I am saying that we now have a grave responsibility to see that the excesses of the Australia Council are kerbed, especially the patronage which is inherent in the list of functions and the list of names, without any prejudice to the people who appear on that list. I am maybe saying that the only person who is questionable upon that list, is  Mr Battersby.  After all, why should we be paying? Even if it is in order to pay for  Dr Battersby  how does it come that it is in order to pay for  Mr Battersby  's entertainment both at the Opera House and at a private function? I do not think the Minister can discard or put aside what I am saying. I trust that he will take the matter up and suitably investigate it. When the matter was discussed previously and  Senator Davidson  said that the Standing Committee was not to proceed with the reference I made a speech which expressed the same concern as I am expressing now, and I will continue to express it. 

 Senator WITHERS (Western Australia)Minister for Administrative Services) (4.9)- I am not closing the debate but I should like to answer some of the questions as close as I can to the action.  Senator Georges  asked a question earlier as to how much of the expenditure is for representation', which I think is the expression used. Last year the Australia Council spent $20,091 on representation, which I understand is a word used for food and liquor. This year the Council will spend $8,000, so the figure has come down considerably. 
But fewer are spending it. It is at the same rate and with the same extravagance. 
The Australia Council engaged them? 
So we now have a statutory corporation which is taking action against a- 
-I have a series of questions which relate to division 436- Australian Atomic Energy Commission. I do not expect an answer at present. The question concerns the Lucas Heights reactor. How many staff are engaged on preliminary studies into a replacement for the Hifar reactor? What is the total salary paid to the staff members studying a replacement reactor? What is the progress of these preliminary studies? What alternative reactors have been considered, and what are the projected costs of such reactors? What terms of reference and output specifications are being exercised in considering a possible replacement? Who authorised such preliminary studies? The purpose of my question is to assure myself that we are not undertaking any studies which may facilitate a decision for the establishment of some uranium project which may be contrary even to the present Government's policy. There is always a danger, as the Committee would appreciate, that when we make funds available for some studies the scientists may take it upon themselves that the studies lead in a particular direction which may facilitate or may add to pressure for a further decision which, in the minds of some of us, may be a disadvantage to the country. 
We should be grateful to  Senator Chaney  for his remarks on the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, and the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service in Western Australia in particular. One of the most horrifying experiences in my time as a senator was to visit a Western Australian gaol. One of the main impressions that I gained while I was there was that there were far too many black people in prison. One quickly gained the impression that the black people of Western Australia seemed to accept the responsibility for any misdeed no matter how small and pleaded guilty when in many cases- 
-I have not. I was saying that in Western Australia some four or five years ago a substantial proportion of people in the prisons of Western Australia were of Aboriginal descent. I want in some way to try to correct what  Senator Baume  said and perhaps put a little of the blame elsewhere. There has been a tendency for the legal profession to take advantage of the knowledge that whatever bills it incurs in regard to Aboriginal legal aid will eventually be paid. The view is that in some way the services which the Aboriginal Legal Aid Office seeks are guaranteed for payment or are underwritten by the Government. As an example, I cite an experience of an Aboriginal community at Cabbage Creek in northern New South Wales. It had a rather good co-operative ruined by the over-use of credit. This credit was offered to the Aborigines beyond the normal terms. They were offered unlimited credit by their suppliers and the Aborigines reached a stage where they could not pay their bills. Who should be held responsible for that situation in which a firm gives unlimited credit beyond the normal terms? My suspicion is that many legal firms which are associated with the Aboriginal Legal Aid Office give credit well beyond what they ought to give. They do not exercise the necessary precautions. 
In fact, it could be said that some firms are ripping off the Service and are assisted by, shall we say, the weakness of the administration of the particular branch about which the honourable senator was speaking. Without saying anything more on the subject, let us also accept that some firms are extending their facilities beyond the point which they ought to extend them. They should be demading payment. I would say that in many cases they have not demanded payment or they may have been, as many legal firms seem to be, rather tardy in sending out their accounts. It seems to me that some of those firms ought to accept the responsibility for allowing their accounts to get so much into debit. Although I am not quite conversant with what is going on in New South Wales, let me say that if what  Senator Baume  has spoken of tonight is correct, it would prejudice the whole legal service. With those remarks, I ask him to perhaps accept that there should be some balance in the case that he has put. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I remind the Minister of a question I asked on 9 September relating to the rate of Budget deficit which at that time had reached $1,45 6m. In reply he said that expenditure runs in variable patterns and revenue accumulates in a variable style. In view of this, can the Minister explain the resent circumstances of a Budget deficit of 2,859m announced for the first 3 months of 1976-77? Will the Minister confirm that this is $250m in excess of the Budget deficit for the same period in 1 975-76? Finally, can the Minister outline the measures the Government intends to take to overcome the Budget deficit, keeping in mind the comments made by the Liberal and National Country Parties when we were in government to the effect that that rate of Budget deficit was irresponsible? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have not been as harshly treated by Major-General Stretton as  Senator Douglas  McClelland and some of my other colleagues have. However, I think it is necessary to get one or two points straight. When the news of the disaster came through I was contacted by  Senator Wheeldon  's office. He was the Minister responsible for natural disasters. 
-Perhaps I should change that but I will not on this occasion. The honourable senator can put it down as one he will hold against me at a later stage. It was suggested to me that since a commercial flight was leaving Brisbane and as this would be the first flight into Darwin I should go to Darwin on behalf of the Minister to see what assistance I could give.  Mr Katter,  the honourable member for Kennedy, and I were two of the first people into Darwin on that commercial flight.  Mr Katter  went his own way to assist the people of Darwin. I endeavoured to do my best to assist in the very tragic situation. I participated in two or three meetings of the very excellent committee which was set up by the citizens of Darwin and which assisted Major-General Stretton. 
Major-General Stretton makes a couple of remarks in his book which seem to indicate that I grafted myself to him, that I took a very paternal interest in his welfare, and that at one stage he ordered me out of Darwin. (That challenge I took up and suggested he should try.) He realised that he did not have either the authority or the power. Nor was it just in the circumstances to do what he threatened. My paternalism towards General-Stretton was prompted by the fact that in the few days that he had been in Darwin he had had very little rest. He had reached a stage of exhaustion. I made a suggestion to him, as did some of his military advisers, who played an excellent role in the Darwin tragedy, in spite of what General Stretton says, that he should get some sleep, that he had reached the stage of complete exhaustion and was in danger of an  emotional breakdown. Subsequent events proved that to be correct. 
Major-General Stretton also mentions that I came into conflict with him and had some very strong words to say. This came about in this way: My role and that of many other politicians who were there- I remember in particular  Mrs Dawn  Lawrie, one or two other members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  were there- was an important role. It was a liaison role to see that the people of Darwin were assisted. We were able to carry this out effectively, because members of Parliament have an authority and facilities which they were able to use to assist the evacuation that was taking place. In the meetings that took place with the Acting Prime Minister at the time, Jim Cairns, and with  Mr Snedden,  it was agreed that the pressure on Darwin should be relieved by evacuation of the women and children, the infirm and the ill. To Major-General Stretton 's credit, he entered into that exercise with great enthusiasm. In fact, he was able to set in operation one of the massive evacuations of modern time. But the guidelines were set down that only women, children and the infirm were to be evacuated and that Darwin was not to be stripped of its work force. The  Major was  quite wrong. On the third day all the women and children who wished to leave - 
-Did I? I apologise. He is Major-General. 
I think the matter is a little more serious than I am allowing it to become, so I should concentrate on what I am saying. The Major-General insisted that the evacuation should continue and that the work force of Darwin, able-bodied men, should also be evacuated. It was at that point that we had a disagreement. All my time had been spent at the airport and the instructions were that only women and children should be evacuated. We were assisting in that evacuation. It was when the men began to arrive seeking to evacuate that I decided to discuss the matter with MajorGeneral Stretton It was then that we had the disagreement. 
Major-General stretton carried out a very difficult exercise in a very extraordinary way, and no credit should be taken away from him in the performance of that exercise. But I believe his recollection is faulty and he is doing an injustice to many people, including  Senator Douglas  McClelland. He is doing a great disservice to those people who gave their best to the effort without seeking any credit for themselves. The greatest of credit should be given to the Army personnel in Darwin and to the pilots who flew the Hercules aircraft. They carried out a very difficult exercise, at great danger to themselves, flying around the clock. It is not to MajorGeneral Stretton 's credit to diminish their role in any way. 
I now come to the conclusion of my personal explanation. I take great offence at an article which appeared in the  Daily Mirror  written by Jim Oram. Jim Oram implied that I sought to take advantage of the tragic situation in Darwin to obtain some personal credit. I do not even remember Jim Oram. He manufactured a conversation and reported it in inverted commas. I consider that to be highly offensive. The  Daily Mirror  is one of the News Limited newspapers. I understand that the  Australian  is the newspaper which carries the banner for News Limited. There was at that time in Darwin a  Mr David  Evans who was the Editor for Queensland for the  Australian.  Some weeks after the Darwin disaster he wrote to me. I will read the letter into the record because it gives the lie to Jim Oram. David Evans wrote: 
I would like to take this opportunity of thanking you for your help while I was in Darwin after cyclone Tracy. 
Without it it would have been extremely difficult for us to re-start the  Northern Territory News  so quickly, or to maintain the coverage we were able to supply to newspapers in the News Limited group. 
I would like to add that I was extremely impressed by the way the National Disaster Organisation, and in particular General Stretton, coped so magnificently with the problems of Darwin. I feel no government, anywhere, could have done more under the circumstances. 
Thank you again for your help. 
It was signed 'David Evans, Editor,  AustralianQueensland'.  I have spoken to the Editor of the  Daily Mirror  and I have reminded him of this letter from David Evans. Through this personal explanation I also seek to remind Jim Oram of this letter which was sent by an editor of the company for which he writes. Many politicians, both from the Government and from the Opposition, rendered tremendous service in Darwin. It is quite extraordinary that some journalist should take the opportunity, on the initiative provided by Major-General Stretton, to denigrate politicians. Politicians have a particular role to play in such disasters and I think that they should continue to play that role. They should not in any way be inhibited by scurrilous comments such as those made by Jim Oram in the  Daily Mirror  of last Thursday. 
I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the 1976-77 Budget allocation of $73.3m for child care amounts to less than $23 per child per year which is totally inadequate. 
That in 39.4 per cent of married couple families, both parents work and of these 59 per cent have dependent children. 
That 38.6 per cent of female heads of families work and of these 64 per cent have dependent children. 
That present government childcare programs are heavily biased in favour of pre-school programs, 70 per cent of the funds being destined for pre-schools which only provide part-time services for children and do not cater for the needs of working parents. That existing government childcare facilities, schools and other government buildings which could be used for childcare programs are underutilised. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that urgent consideration will be given to: 
An increase in funds for childcare services throughout Australia; 
An equitable distribution of funds to cover all the childcare needs of the community; 
The cessation of the wasteful useage of sessional preschool buildings; instead these buildings to be used also to cover the full range of childcare needs; 
The wider utilisation of government buildings or pans thereof, e.g. schools, hospitals and government offices for appropriate childcare facilities. 
Petition received and read. 
Religious Freedom in the U.S.S.R. 
I present the following petition from 282 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 1 2 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal Claims. The hearing of the Aboriginal Claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions, Aboriginals should not be penalised. 
Amend the Bill to ensure:  
The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control by Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on need as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
d ) The restoration of all powers vested in Land Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1975 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to override Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest itself be reviewed by both houses of parliament. 
A provision thatland-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory Borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
There has been general agreement with what  Senator Rae  proposed in the Senate on a previous occasion and with what he formalised by way of a motion tonight. If the motion is adopted it will lead to a substantial extension of the role of the Senate. For that reason we believe that the motion ought to be the subject of substantial debate in the Senate. The second paragraph of the motion states: 
That the above opinion be referred to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration. 
That will allow for substantial debate on the proposition. In the meantime we on this side of the chamber can collectively discuss the matter. 
If there are any differences of opinion we may come to a common decision on the matter. It would not be feasible to adjourn the Committee proceedings. Besides, we do not wish to adjourn debate on the proposition. However, we could take some steps after the Committee reported. Even that would be inclined to hold up what we consider to be a proposition worth while discussing and considering. The Opposition agrees with the substance of the proposal. We perhaps do not agree with the detail that may flow from it, but surely the Standing Orders Committee will put us on the right track. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Today is Remembrance Day. Will the Minister remember the sacrifice made by the Timorese people in the defence of Australia? Will he make representations to the Prime Minister to ignore the advice of the Australian Ambassador to Indonesia,  Mr Woolcott,  and take into this country those Timorese refugees who seek to enter? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of statements made by the Attorney-General of New South Wales,  Mr Frank  Walker, on 12 November, to the effect that negotiations between the Commonwealth and the States on national corporations and securities industry legislation have reached a stalemate? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Walker  centred his criticism relating to the cause of this stalemate on the lack of co-operation by the Queensland Premier in the formulation of a national scheme? Is the Minister aware that any opting out by Queensland could destroy the Government's intention of regulating the securities market with State co-operation? Can the Minister confirm that such a standstill in respect of this vital legislation will delay the implementation of the necessary reforms outlined in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange? In view of the time that Senate committees have spent on the investigation of proposed legislation, can the Minister now give us some idea of when the Government will decide to set up a regulation system with national legislation alone and not with legislation in cooperation with the States? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a brief statement. 
-That was an uncalledfor remark by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. 
Caucus'. I object. I ask that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack be made to withdraw the remark. 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

If we get into so much trouble when I rise, perhaps I should reconsider the matter before I speak. I attract the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  to these words in his statement: 
Honourable senators will recall that in Opposition I was opposed to the use of gag or guillotine to force legislation through the Senate. I am delighted that the co-operation of senators has . . . made such devices unnecessary. I am still reluctant to use such measures to fulfil the Government's legislative program. 
I have not had an opportunity to go through  Hansard  but I recall very well the attitude the Leader of the Government took at the beginning of the new Parliament. He came into this place and threatened us with the numbers that he has at his command. In fact, he moved the gag and the guillotine, and he did it with great arrogance. I am glad that he has a short memory. If honourable senators opposite wish it, I will quote  Hansard  to them when I have the opportunity. I welcome the change of attitude by the Leader of the Government, but I remind him that we in the Opposition are cautious about his statement, having in mind the attitude that he took at the beginning of the year. I am hoping that he will not revert to the position he took then, but he needs to be reminded that he did rather regressively move the gag. The Opposition reacted strongly and he soon found that he saved very little time by moving the gag and the guillotine. If the Government attempts to do this again we are most certainly prepared to stay here until it gets this legislation through. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that the States Grants (Schools) Bill significantly departs from the principles of need and equality as the basis of education funding as espoused in the Schools Commission Report. If so, does it depart from this approach through (a) per capita grants to be provided to non-government schools regardless of the fact that many of the richer schools have facilities far in advance of most nongovernment and government schools, (b) the cutting of $0.9m in the innovations and program development allocation as recommended by the Schools Commission has been transferred to non-government schools, and (c) providing a virtual triennium funding for non-government schools and an annual funding basis for government schools. 
In the light of these changes by this Government which undermine the basis of need and the objective of equality, can the Minister undertake to review the current attitude of the Government towards the three points outlined. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of criticism by the Australian Teachers' Federation of the 'rolling triennium' concept for Commission funding 
Did the Federation state on 9 November 1976 that The term 'rolling triennium' to be revised each year is a form of deception which in fact has no meaning other than that education will be funded on an annual basis . 
Does the Minister agree that the 'rolling triennium' funding concept undermines the ability of the Commissions to adequately plan education needs. 
Will the Minister provide assurances on the maintenance of real funding value to meet the projections for 1978 and 1 979 that have been made by the Commissions. 
Will the Minister undertake to clarify the meaning of  rolling triennium '. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government in the State Grants (Schools) Bill provided for advance funding for non-government schools' building programs. 
Is advanced funding available to State Departments for capital projects in schools on the same basis as nongovernment schools will receive. If not, can the Minister explain this bias towards non-government schools. 
I present the following petition from 2 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament, assembled should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal Claims. The hearing of the Aboriginal Claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions, Aboriginals should not be penalised. 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control of Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on need as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in Land Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1975 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to override Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest itself be reviewed by both Houses of Parliament. 
A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory Borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-My question, which concerns East Timor, is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Can the Minister confirm reports of a Cabinet decision to stop the Australian Telecommunications Commission's Northern Territory outback radio receiving messages from and forwarding messages to East Timor? In view of the Government's public opposition to the Indonesian actions, how can it explain this deliberate compliance with 
Indonesia's demands? Is the Government aware that this action prevents not only Australians but also the international community within Australia from receiving information from East Timor? Is the Government prepared to reverse its decision and enable the suffering of the East Timorese under Indonesian aggression to be heard of and so to be known in Australia? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a question. Several questions have been directed to her about school and university leavers. If a young person who is subject to the guidelines which her Department has put down leaves school and subsequently becomes eligible for the unemployment benefit, is the unemployment benefit paid retrospectively to the time that that person left school or decided to discontinue university studies? If not, why not? 
-by leave- As I indicated earlier by way of interjection, it disturbs me that a recommendation which was made by the Joint Committee on Public 
Works some 4 years ago has taken- seems now to be coming to some definite conclusion. 
I am permitted to seek out my words. I am not as well supported with my material as is the Minister when answering questions. The points I want to make are these: I misled  Senator Douglas  McClelland before when I said that the decision concerning the Cocos (Keeling) Islands by the Joint Committee on Public Works was a unanimous one. It was not.  Senator Poyser  voted against the proposal. He supported placing the quarantine station on Norfolk Island. But during our investigations we found that the Norfolk Island people were very much divided and were very much against the quarantine station being placed on Norfolk Island. We found that Christmas Island was isolated and its future was in doubt. The Cocos (Keeling) Islands seemed to be the best location for the quarantine station. With the exception of  Senator Poyser,  that was what the Committee recommended. But we recommended it back in 1973. The estimated cost at that time was $2m; it is now $6m. 
-No, that is not the case. I am simply saying that, although there would be a natural escalation in costs, it seems odd that this project should now cost 3 times the original amount. 
We should now be looking at what compensation arrangements are going to be agreed to with  Mr Clunies  Ross. That aspect needs to be looked at very carefully because at the dme the Committee made its investigations  Mr Clunies  Ross was seeking compensation for the land and also for every coconut tree on that land. The suggested price was $25 a tree. That ran into many thousands of dollars. I hope that  Mr Clunies  Ross has not jacked up his price now that he knows a decision has been made to place this very important quarantine station on Cocos Islands. No one denies the importance of the station. It was emphasised in 1973. If it was important in 1973, it is even more important in 1 976-77 that the station be established quickly. I have no comments against the need for the station. I merely say that the need is more urgent now than it was previously, because of the lapse of time and of the danger of some exotic disease coming into Australia. 
The view of the Committee was that the skills required to build the station existed in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. The people had the skills to build this station. We saw excellent buildings on the main island, West Island. The people of Cocos (Keeling) built the hospital there. The craftsmanship was excellent. The finish was excellent. 
-Home Island is where the islanders live. West Island is where the administration is. That is where the quarantine station is to be built. The islanders are capable of providing the skills to build the station. There is no question of that. The question that we are raising is that they be paid award rates for the building of the station. 
Australian award rates for the building of that quarantine station. Award rates are being paid to teachers and Royal Australian Air Force personnel. Australian rates are being paid on West Island. We are suggesting that those rates be paid to the islanders who are capable of carrying out a job equal to that of Australian tradesmen and craftsmen. 
There is one question which worries me. This quarantine station is to control exotic diseases not only in cattle and horses but also in swine. There is a religious problem on Cocos Islands. Since there is a problem with the handling of swine by the islanders of Cocos (Keeling), what provision has been made to staff the quarantine station? This must be kept very much in mind. What is to be the future staffing of the quarantine station? How does the Government intend to overcome this problem? 
I want to be assured that the Government does not pay excessive compensation to Clunies Ross, and Clunies Ross alone. If it pays compensation, some of the compensation should flow to the people of Cocos (Keeling). In particular, the case put by  Senator Douglas  McClelland should be kept in mind. Australian rates of pay should be paid to the islanders for the construction of this quarantine station. 
I think that the Whips ought to participate in this debate. We will bear the responsibility for carrying out this program. I know honourable senators will agree that the Whips have endeavoured to maintain reasonable progress of Bills through this place. Perhaps they have noticed that many senators are not speaking for as long as they used to speak. That is about as far as co-operation can go. There are so many Bills that even if we did not speak on them at all the formal procedures of putting them through this place without applying the guillotine would take almost to 17 December. As  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Wriedt  have said, it must be the Government's responsibility to see that the bureaucracy does not continue to do what it has done for many years and put a work load on senators towards the end of a session which is impossible to carry without a loss of temper. 
I cannot for the life of me see how we can give these Bills the consideration they deserve and pass them by 17 December but it seems that we have all decided that we will attempt to do so. There will be a demand upon the Whips towards the end of the session for special arrangements to be made. Many senators have obtained some idea that the program would be completed on 10 December. I am not certain how that idea got around. It seems that the House of Representatives intends to rise about that time. Many senators felt that the Senate would sit for an extra day. Some have made arrangements, understandably as it is so close to Christmas, which will conflict with the hours that the Government has set down. If the Government cannot withdraw some of these Bills or if we cannot come to some arrangement to reduce the work load, many people who are not able to get away to meet commitments they have honestly made will be fretting in the corridors and in this House. The Whips have tried to meet the requirements of senators away from this House but there is a limitation on what can be done. 
Another matter which needs to be raised- I do not want any misunderstanding at this stage- is that the House requirements will need to be met. I think honourable senators would agree that the attendance in the House has been well below what it should have been. I should like to make this comment here and not privately to my opposite number It is coming very close to the point where quorums will have to be called if the House is to be reasonably attended. I am not saying that we ought to be maintaining our numbers in the chamber at 22 at all times. Surely 15 senators is a reasonable number to be in the chamber. I remind the Government that if it wants to persist with such a heavy program it ought to understand also that it is its responsibility to maintain the numbers in the House. If quorums are called in the future they will be called on that basis and not on the basis of irritation. 
-They may be called on the basis of irritation. If they are called on that basis, we will be calling quorums when the number in the chamber falls below 20 senators. But since I have indicated that we think 1 5 senators is a reasonable number and that quorums will be called only if the number of senators falls below that figure, I do not see how that could be regarded as an irritation, as the interjection seemed to suggest. 
They are the only comments I wish to make. We will do our best. I think it will be recalled that at the end of the last session we managed to allow all honourable senators to catch their respective airline flights. I hope the Leader of the Government realises how difficult things are on the last day of sitting. If the Government is considering taking certain action I hope that it will make up its mind and give a clear decision. Please do not leave the 2 Whips in a state of complete upset. Remember, too, the responsibility that the transport officers have. It makes the situation very awkward if the Government dillydallies with its legislation. The soundest proposition was that made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, namely, that the Government ought to look at its program, to reduce the number of Bills which have to be considered this session, and to allow sufficient time for debate with all honourable senators co-operating by making short speeches. I think we could then get away by 10 December. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What is the percentage of public sector expenditure on education in Australia in relation to gross domestic product for 1975-76, and projected for 1977-78. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 123 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs forland in the Northern Territory. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal claims. The hearing of Aboriginal claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions. Aboriginals should not be penalised. 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
a ) The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control by Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on needs as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
d ) The restoration of all powers vested in Land Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1975 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to override Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both houses of parliament. 
A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory Borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I have previously drawn the Minister's attention to the social distress created by the decision not to permit school leavers to receive unemployment benefit from 12 November to the commencement of the next school year. Who made the decision to declare school leavers ineligible for unemployment benefit? Under what Act and what regulations was such a decision made? Has the Minister received any advice relating to this decision which might question its legality? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Government prepared to take the following initiatives to counter the deceit of the Jakarta generals and support fully the right of self-determination of the East Timorese people: 
authorise communication with East Timor through Telecom and provide a licence for a radio to operate from Darwin; 
call for a moratorium on defence aid to Indonesia until all Indonesian troops have been withdrawn from East Timor; 
urge the Indonesian Government to allow Australian observers to go to East Timor; 
fully support the right of self-determination for the East Timorese in the United Nations during this current session; 
refuse to send further aid through the Indonesian Red Cross and continue to press for involvement of the International Committee of the Red Cross; and 
release all details of the Indonesian invasion of East Timor held by Australian intelligence agencies. 
I remind the Minister for Social Security that the number of questions asked of her about youth unemployment, especially among school leavers, expresses the grave dissatisfaction in the community concerning the decision made by her Department in relation to the payment of the unemployment benefit to school leavers. Will the Minister agree that if a young person approaching the end of his or her school career makes written application to a number of employers for employment that is taking suitable steps to seek employment? Would she not agree that in those circumstances the unemployment benefit should be paid and not denied as she has continued to deny it to those people by way of answers to questions? 
I ask a further question of the Minister for Social Security relating to the unemployment benefit payable to school leavers. Are school leavers required to register on a special form? Are they advised on that special form of their right of appeal? If they do appeal, how long does it take for the Appeals Tribunals to process the appeal? Will the tribunals be sitting during that vital period for these people- the December- January period? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security and refer to her answer to a question yesterday on school leavers, when she undertook to table a legal opinion. Is the legal opinion to which the Minister referred the one by  Sir Garfield  Barwick when he was Attorney-General? Does the opinion refer to students who intend to resume their studies and is it true that the Department has not had a legal opinion on school leavers as distinct from students on vacation who intend to resume studies? 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It refers to a  Mr da  Silva a Timorese who was charged before a Darwin court for the operation of a radio transmitter. I ask: Now that the matter has been resolved and  Mr da  Silva is on a bond to be of good behaviour for one year, will the Minister accede to a request by  Mr da  Silva that he should leave Australia next Wednesday for Mozambique and not respond to a request from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs that he should leave this Sunday? I ask the Minister to give favourable consideration to his request because the demand by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs means that  Mr da  Silva would have to overstay at Mauritius for one week, thus endangering his personal safety. 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security. I believe that in answer to a question asked by  Senator Donald  Cameron the Minister read from a letter which I think is sent to school leavers registering for employment. Will the Minister table that letter or provide a copy of it to honourable senators? The impression still is that the terms used in that letter are much harsher than the impression given by the Minister in answer to questions from this side of the Senate? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. By preface may I say that some concern is now being expressed that no action has been taken by the Government to introduce electoral reform legislation to provide for a redistribution. Are we not rapidly reaching the position where unless some such initiative is taken it will be impossible to hold an election in 1 977 or even in 1 978? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it the intention of the Government to establish 2 migrant resource centres, one in Sydney and one in Melbourne? Is it correct that the fund allocation for these 2 centres is $70,000? If so, how can such a paltry amount be adequate to support the grandiose functions which have been assigned to these 2 centres? Can one rightly assume that the inadequacy of the sum allocated indicates that this is an exercise to gain cheap political advantage and not one to further migrant welfare? 
I come into this debate because of remarks made by  Senator Baume  which ought not to be made in the dying stages of a session if we are to complete our business. They stir people to respond to what I would term misleading and inflammatory remarks.  Senator Grimes  emphasised the situation which has arisen in Australia in many industries, not only in respect of pharmacists. There are too many establishments, which has led to an over-capitalisation and to a diversification by chemists outside their traditional area of merchandising. This has led to very poor service to the community in respect of pharmaceutical benefits. In Australia we need a considerable reform in the area of pharmacies and the dispensing of drugs and medicines. The debate is not assisted when  Senator Baume  makes wild claims about nationalisation, implying that  Senator Grimes  supports such a proposition. 
I should like  Senator Baume  to go to my locality in Brisbane, Everton Park, where 5 pharmacists are endeavouring to carry out the work which one pharmacist could carry out successfully. Each of those pharmacists believes that he has a right to live according to his profession and at the level of earning of his profession. That has led to a situation where the profession has been diminished in some way by diversifying its operations to cover lines of merchandise which have no relationship whatsoever to pharmacies. The danger which has arisen from that, if I might suggest it to  Senator Baume,  is that in retaliation the chain stores have taken to dispensing a wide range of drugs which should be the right of pharmacists alone to dispense. I believe that we as a Parliament should be looking to some sort of legislation, in co-operation with the States, which will bring the pharmacists back to their traditional role of dispensing medicines and drugs, which should be their right and theirs alone. 
I would even go as far as the analgesics, which at the present time are subject to impulse buying at the chain stores, and a whole variety of associated drugs. I would have thought that the right approach would be to look at legislation which would bring these drugs of abuse, and there is a whole range of them, under the control and supervision of a pharmacist. The pharmacist's role should be protected against the inroads of the big chain stores, the big pressure groups, which endeavour to sell as much of a commodity as possible. Surely  Senator Baume  would agree that drugs of the type of which I have been speaking should not be subject to discounting procedures and pressures. 
I would strongly support the pharmacist's being brought back to his traditional role.  His  area of operation should be protected. He should be registered; he should be zoned, and the sooner we arrive at that position the better. We can achieve that only by this Parliament's taking the initiative, in co-operation with the initiatives taken by State parliaments, to bring it about. The distribution system is not economic when it allows five or six chemists to operate in an area where one chemist could operate successfully, and I believe that all the errors which occur flow from that situation. Perhaps not enough chemists are produced by Australian universities, if one is considering the whole of Australia, including the rural areas, but we are producing far too many pharmacists to serve the city areas. Each pharmacist who goes into an already congested area is asking for trouble. My view is that such pharmacist ought not, having got into difficulties because of the congestion in their industry, come to the Australian Government for support. There is no talk of nationalisation in what I am saying and there was no talk of nationalisation in what  Senator Grimes  was saying. What we are talking about is rationalisation of the industry, and the sooner we achieve that rationalisation the better. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Can the Minister provide information on pollution levels at Gladstone in Queensland. 
Can any figures relating to air and sea pollution be compared with World Health Organisation standards. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister provide the Senate with a detailed account of the spending of the $80,000 already provided to the Indonesian Red Cross. 
Is the Minister aware of many reports that Indonesian Red Cross aid is being used by Indonesian soldiers. 
Can the Minister provide full assurances that the Australian assistance is not being used to assist Indonesian troops in their brutal activities in East Timor. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Will the Minister for Industry and Commerce take up  Senator Sim's  question and give us his version of  Mr Dillon's  advice, since I believe that  Mr Dillon  is one of the Minister's advisers? Does he agree with the answer that  Senator Withers  has given? What is the Minister's response to  Senator Sim's  question? 
-Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General aware of a legal challenge to the refusal by the Department of Social Security to pay the unemployment benefit to school leavers? I believe that the legal action has been taken in Victoria. Will legal aid be provided by the Australian Legal Aid Office for such a challenge and any subsequent legal tests concerning the bar on school leavers obtaining the unemployment benefit? 
I wish to respond to  Senator Baume.  I remind him of a rather irrational reaction on his part to some remarks made by  Senator Grimes.  He misunderstood  Senator Grimes  the other day. 
-You misunderstood him. 
-The honourable senator may have read the  Hansard  and he may have continued to misconstrue. Nevertheless his reaction was an over-reaction and in this case, too, it is an over-reaction. He is getting himself into trouble.  Senator Baume  might take the best out of what  Senator O'Byrne  said. He said nothing that was in any way disparaging to  Senator Baume  or to anyone associated with him. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to table a copy of an invitation which I and all members of this Parliament received from the AustralianEast Timor Association, which read: 
You are invited to be present at a wreath-laying ceremony at the the Australian War Memorial in memory of Australian and Timorese fallen. 
Then it mentions the name of  Mr Tom  Uren. I think every member of the Parliament received that invitation. If what happened at the War Memorial was not in accordance with that invitation, that is a matter that can be taken up by the Leader of the Government Senate  (Senator Withers).  But believe that the invitation was as shown and the ceremony was in accordance with that invitation. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Can the Minister assure the Senate that the inadequacies of Australia's public library system, as outlined in the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries tabled in Parliament in April 1976, have received due consideration by the Government. 
Is the Minister aware that the Library Association of Australia has recently expressed concern at the delay by the Government in providing $20m in order to upgrade the current inadequate library system of Australia. 
Will the Minister outline what measures are being taken expeditiously to alleviate current inadequacies in the Australian library system. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I take this opportunity to speak briefly on a matter which involves the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial. Following the debate on the adjournment last night, and questions and answers this morning, the implication remains that some persons endeavoured to deceive the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial by arranging the laying of a wreath at the Memorial on the anniversary of the invasion of Timor by Indonesia. Let me put clearly to the Senate that my advice was sought on this matter and that correspondence which passed between the applicants and the Board of Trustees and the advice given by the Trustees was known to me. It was very clearly intended that the laying of the wreath should be in memory of Australian servicemen who died in Timor. That was primarily the purpose of the ceremony, but nevertheless the opportunity was taken to remind the Australian people of the role the Timorese people played at that time alongside Australian soldiers. 
An invitation was issued to all honourable senators, including  Senator Walters,  to be present at the laying of the wreath. I think the invitation clearly stated the purpose of the laying of the wreath. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr Uren)  was aware of the requirements of the trustees and he made his speech accordingly at the War Memorial. A tape record of that speech is available and I think that at the earliest opportunity that speech should be included in the Senate  Hansard,  as was the statement that  Senator Walters  introduced into the Senate last night. I want to make it clear that the organisers in no way wanted to circumvent the Australian War Memorial Act or be discourteous to the Board of Trustees of the War Memorial. I have spoken to Tom Uren concerning this matter and he has assured me that the speech that he made was made bearing in mind the conditions that the trustees had placed upon that wreath laying. The speech that was circulated as a speech delivered by  Mr Uren  was in effect a statement to be made on the day. 
-Senator Walters, I agree that this is the only matter in question and it is a matter which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will correct. If  Senator Walters  wants to bring some evil intent into this situation and make some political capital out of an earnest desire on the part of people to commemorate those who fell in Timor, both Australian and Timorese- if she wants in some way to convert that into some evil intention on the part of members of Parliament- she may by all means go ahead and endeavour to do her best. She cannot sustain it and it cannot be sustained. I wish to make it clear at this point in speaking to the presentation of the annual report of the Australian War Memorial Board of Trustees that no discourtesy to the trustees was intended, and no breach of the Act was intended. That was the intention of the organisers and that was carried out. It was necessary to remind people in Australia that the Timorese in East Timor went to the assistance of Australians and fought alongside Australians.  Senator Carrick  and possibly  Senator Missen  and a number of other honourable senators can give evidence of the valour of those men who died alongside Australians. The purpose of the wreath laying was to remind Australia of this. It seems odd that both  Senator Harradine  and  Senator Walters  should seek to denigrate that act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
What assistance is being provided to East Timorese persons still living in Commonwealth hostels. 
Does the assistance include adult language learning courses and advice on employment. 
What is the total number of persons remaining in hostels and what is the rate, if any, of decrease during 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many applications were received for residency status from East Timor refugees. 
How many applications have been granted. 
How many are pending. 
Have any applications for visas to Australia been received from East Timor refugees now in Portugal. 
5 ) How many of these have been accepted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister outline details of the Australian aid program to Vietnam for 1 976-77. 
) What is the cost of items in the program. 
What plans have been undertaken for subsequent financial years. 
What projects funded by the Australian Government will commence in 1976, and when are they expected to be finished. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In an answer to a question from  Senator Wriedt  the Minister referred to secret meetings at the Lodge. I refer now to midnight meetings in Parliament House. What was the purpose of the visit of 6 Treasury officials to Parliament House at midnight last night? Why did the Prime Minister request their attendance? Is this an indication that there is to be a change in economic initiative? If the meeting was important enough to need the attendance of 6 Treasury officials, why did they have to enter Parliament House in such a surreptitious manner through the back door? 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that savings in trading and savings bank deposits have soared in recent months to all time highs. 
Is the Minister aware of reports which suggest that these record savings are inhibiting an economic recovery and are preventing industry from increasing production and investing. 
3 ) Is the Government taking steps to change this trend. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of falls in production registered in the September figures, announced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
Were the items to decline in production pig iron, consumer durables, textiles and a maintenance of low car registrations. 
Does the Minister concede that lower real wages resulting from the failure to effect a full flow-on from cost price index increases has added to this decline in consumer spending. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of a metal trades industry report which states that the prospects of an investment-led recovery are remote due to falling business confidence in the Government's policies. 
Did the report say in referring to business confidence much of this confidence is now eroded, and hence manufacturers are not responding to the Government call for an investment-led recovery'. 
In view of this statement, and many other indicators, will the Minister agree that an essential premise upon which the budget for 1976-77 is based is erroneous. 
Will the Government take steps to ensure that a consumer based recovery is implemented. 
Is it the Government's intention to introduce a mini budget early in 1977 to offset the economic consequences of false premises in the 1976-77 budget. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister confirm reports of current planning by the Government to establish a uranium marketing board to manage the mining and sale of uranium as well as export quotas for producers. 
Can the Minister state when such a proposal to establish a uranium marketing board was commenced. 
Does such planning pre-empt a wide public debate on uranium mining and the tabling of the second report of the Ranger Inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
Have any applications for residency status been received from citizens of Thailand following the recent military coup. If so, how many. 
What is the Government's attitude to such applications. 
Will the Government apply the same criteria to those applications, as it applied to applications from Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and East Timor refugees. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Can the Minister provide the figures for Education Commissions expenditure programs in December 1975 prices, for 1972, 1973, 1974 and 1975, along the lines of those presented for 1976 and 1977 in the Senate by the Minister on 4 November. 
-The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962-1973 for the following purposes: First, to replace the references to the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council with references to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly; secondly, to amend the provisions of the principal Act dealing with the remuneration and allowances of the members of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority; and, thirdly, to bring the language of the principal Act into line with current drafting practices. It is evident that the purpose of the Bill is purely formal. There is no opposition to it from this side of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Can the Minister provide details of changes to the legislation proposed by the Queensland Act following the controversy concerning the Currumbin Bird Sanctuary in Queensland. 
Have any environmental organisations opposed the changes. 
Do changes to the National Trust of Queensland Act include the provision for the Governor-in-Council to suspend, nullify, vary or rescind any decision or resolution of the Trust; if so, does this in any way diminish the independence of the Trust. 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer been informed of the recent Australian Council of Social Service report which calls for an immediate Government spending program in order to create jobs? In view of the record 5.83 per cent unemployment when will the Government concede and introduce job creation programs such as a revised Regional Employment Development scheme? Will the Minister also accept that the Government strategy of cuts in Public Service expenditure is responsible for retrenchments and lack of job vacancies in a wide range of industries which supply the Government? Does the Government intend to alter the direction of its policy in order to create jobs? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. Since we are now very much concerned with electoral matters, does he recall that he gave an answer to a Question on these matters last year, saying that redistribution would take some 40 to 45 weeks after the appropriate legislation went through this chamber? Will he reaffirm that that is the program that he intends? Can he assure the Senate that the proposed legislation will provide for a tolerance of 10 per cent, not 20 per cent? Will he also assure the Senate and the people of Australia that this will not be a disadvantage to the electors in rural areas? 
I thank the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  for that suggestion. It has been indicated by several honourable senators that this is very important and very welcome legislation. It is a step in the right direction of disarmament. I think that on both sides of the chamber we would seek to reduce the level of armament in the world and in particular in some way to limit these horrific weapons that can be developed. The question that  Senator Hall  raised is a very important one- just what sort of control is envisaged or proposed by those who are signatories to this convention? If we could have some debate on this matter, perhaps some questions and answers might benefit all of us. 
Progress reported. 
I am interested in and want to take a little further the question that  Senator Button  has asked. One of my questions was to have been: Has the Government ensured that all such toxic substances have been destroyed, whether they have been held by the Government or by companies; do such substances remain in Australia; and will we receive information as to where those substances have been held and what is to happen to them? Honourable senators will recall that I got myself into a deal of trouble some 5 or 6 years ago by supporting a proposition that a member of the British Parliament put by way of question. He stated that under a tripartite agreement certain tests of biological weapons were taking place in Australia in a place just outside Ingham m north Queensland. There was quite a deal of publicity at the time concerning a tripartite agreement between Australia, the United Kingdom and Canada for the testing of biological weapons. What has happened to that agreement? What will happen to that agreement under this present Bill? Perhaps I should just leave it at that. I have one or two more questions to ask. Does the Minister want me to ask them at this stage? 
If any of the toxic substances remain in Australia, for what peaceful purposes under the Convention Will they be used? May we have, either now or at a later stage, some details of this? It would be interesting to know whether any international companies which operate in Australia- they are called transnational companies now- produce such toxic substances. I take it that under the legislation they will discontinue doing so. But how can we be assured that the production of these substances is discontinued? The final question I want to ask is: What Government agency will be entrusted with executing the expert analysis of the provisions of the Bill; what tests and experiments of biological substances have been carried out in Australia in the past; and where, and by whom, have they been carried out? That information would be interesting to have on the record. 
I want to correct a mistake which I made. I said that the Opposition was in support of the Bill. It was clear to all who listened to me speak that I am opposed to the legislation and that my Party is opposed to it. I make that point clear at this time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a third time. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
-I thank the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  for the information that he has given. I am still dependent upon my memory to support my contention that there was a tripartite arrangement between the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada and that this tripartite arrangement was the subject of a report to the House of Commons which led to a question being asked by  Mr Dalyell,  M.P. In fact, a visit some years ago by 

 Mr Dalyell, M.P. to a defence standards laboratory outside Ingham revealed that there were certain articles of clothing that were to be used as protection in biological warfare situations, although there was no test of a biological nature. Such clothing was at this laboratory for testing as a result of that tripartite agreement. It was quite an innocent arrangement; nevertheless the tripartite arrangement did exist. In any case, that is in the past. 
I think this legislation is progressive legislation which will make unnecessary such tripartite arrangements and agreements for the testing of biological warfare materials or any instrument associated with such warfare. However, I would like to ask the Minister just how the agency, the Government or whatever instrumentality is set up will decide when any experiments are, as they are now called, prophylactic- perhaps I should use the word 'preventative'- rather than directly connected with some offensive intention. It seems to me that it is hard to define the difference. Each time we have asked questions about certain experiments- for instance, those carried out in Australia with some nerve warfare techniques and other biological techniques- we have been told that the purpose of such experiments was purely defensive, purely prophylactic, I think the word is, and purely preventative. Can we gain some comfort from the fact that some firm policy position will be taken by the Government with regard to any experiments carried out by government agencies, universities or private concerns? 
I congratulate him. He did very well. The Senate is debating the Public Service Amendment (First Division Officers) Bill 1976. I have risen in order to give another honourable senator a chance to continue, but first I have one or two thoughts to express on this Bill. For many years I have been of the opinion that what we need in this country is a centralisation of sovereignty. That means that I am a centralist. I believe in an Australian government. I believe that there is some continuing role for the State governments. Nevertheless I believe that sovereignty should rest with the Australian government. But I have always been somewhat wary of the centralising of the bureaucracy- of the building up in Canberra of a massive organisation which, by its very nature, turns in upon itself, being concerned with its own interests and its own existence, and which neglects the programs, policies and Acts of Parliament which it is the Public Service's duty to carry into effect for the benefit of the people of Australia. For some time now I have advocated that there should be some sort of federalism as far as the Public Service is concerned and that there should be decentralisation of the Public Service. It ought to be spread across the Commonwealth; it ought not to be centred in Canberra. So I am a federalist in one way and a centralist in another. 
I think the Public Service has suffered in the past from a rigidity within itself that has been to its disadvantage. I do not think this legislation assists this situation. This legislation endeavours to protect public servants, especially senior public servants, from outside appointments which may be made at the whim of a particular governmenta government which may become patronising and which may exercise patronage in appointing those whom it believes will serve its purposes as heads of various departments. It seems to be very much accepted in the United States system that public servants are appointed with governments and that public servants also fall with the fall of governments. The reason for that seems to be protection of the people of the United States against an entrenched bureaucracy. I do not go to that point. I do not believe that that ought to be the case. I also do not believe that the Bill which is before us, which seeks to make appointments outside the Public Service of a continuing nature but to limit those appointments, is good legislation. 
I think it would be more to the advantage of government and the Public Service if the problem of the permanency of First Division officers were to be met in this way: A First Division officer- a head of a department; a Secretary of a department- ought not to consider himself elected in perpetuity. He ought not to consider himself to be in a position of complete security from which he cannot bc dismissed but can only be promoted to some ambassadorial position overseas. I believe that that is a disadvantage to proper government of this country. It is a disadvantage to the elected government of the country in that, if a head of a department is not in its opinion capable of carrying out its policy or in some way frustrates its policy, he should be able to be retrenched in some way; it should not be necessary to appoint him to a senior position overseas in the ambassadorial service. If a government is frustrated by a head of a department in the application of its policy, it should be possible for that government to move that head of department aside or to return him to a pool. 
It was suggested once that Second Division public servants should represent a pool from which First Division officers should be appointed for the term of the elected government. I think that is a good proposal. It would mean that the second rank in the Public Service would consist of officers qualified and with sufficient experience in depth to take over the First Division responsibilities. My view is that the government of the day should be able to move people up from the Second Division to the First Division or from the First Division back to the Second Division. I also say that it ought not to be necessary for a government to go outside the Public Service. People spend their lives within the Public Service and there are some economic limitations on their leaving the Public Service. In fairness to those people, they are the people from whom appointments should be made. In a way I am defending the right of public servants to be appointed to the First Division and to be protected from appointments from outside the Public Service. 
Having made those few remarks in a rather rambling fashion, I conclude by saying that although this Bill will create 2 ranks of First Division public servants, one of permanent officers and another of semi-permanent officers, the Opposition is supporting the proposition. We will look to some future occasion on which to make the necessary amendments in view of changed circumstances. 
I rise reluctantly to point out the shambles in which we find ourselves because the Government - 
We are now in an even greater shambles than we were before. I hope I have something sensible to say after  Senator Rae's  ceding to me. I point out to the Senate the desperate position in which we find ourselves at this time, 9.30 p.m., after witnessing one of the most extraordinary performances from the Government benches in my time in this place. I took some joy out of it but from a Whip's point of view I find myself in complete confusion. According to the notice paper - 

 - Senator Bonner was in some confusion a moment ago; he found himself on this side of the Senate. According to the notice paper we were to discuss these Bills cognately and I proceeded according to that program. Suddenly we find that we are dealing with each Bill separately. I ask: What does the Government propose? What is its intention? Perhaps when  Senator Durack  answers  Senator Rae  's questions he could enlighten me about what he intends to do. If he intends to take these Bills one by one he most certainly will have to explain how we are to complete this program on Friday because it seems to me that the Government is in a bind. Having invited the Queen to open this Parliament, the Government has decided to interrupt the program of the Parliament and to prorogue the Parliament. Now we find ourselves unable to complete the program. I ask  Senator Durack  to explain how he intends to proceed. Are we to debate these Bills tomorrow? I doubt it. I think that the electoral Bills are far more important than these Constitution alteration Bills. I take it that the Government wants the electoral Bills passed because if they do not go through this week the Government is up for considerable expense, as  Senator Withers  has already explained. So it seems to me that the electoral Bills will have to take priority. Therefore, what is the program for tomorrow, the Government having wasted tonight's debate? What is intended for tomorrow, or Thursday or Friday? Do we prorogue or not this week? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Following the release of the December consumer price index figures which, he must agree, are the highest since 195 1, is it the Government's intention to make wage and salary earners now bear the brunt of any attack on inflation? Is this not highly unjust considering that in the first 3 quarters of 1976 wage and salary increases lagged behind price increases by approximately 2 per cent? Does not this loss of nearly 2 per cent mean that wage and salary earners have less disposable income? Does the Minister agree that anything less than a full flow-on of the consumer price index increase potentially threatens the concept of indexation and will lead to collective bargaining? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of substantial claims by Singaporean students, who have protested against, or opposed the Government, that they may face reprisals upon returning to Singapore. 
In the light of these claims, can the Minister explain why the Australian Broadcasting Commission's State Manager in Western Australia provided a film of the protests to  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew despite not having received any request for such a film from the Government of Singapore. 
Can the Minister explain why the usual practice of providing a film to overseas dignitaries after a request was changed in this instance. 
Is the Minister further aware that such a film contains easily identifiable Singapore students. 
What steps have been taken to prevent similar films being provided, in the light of possible surveillance and intimidation of Singaporean students studying in Australia. 
I moved the adjournment of this debate on the motion that this Bill be read a first time anticipating the opportunity for some debate but I do not intend to proceed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I assure  Senator Rae  that no constraint was placed upon him in regard to the time he had in which to speak on this very important matter. 
-Senator Wright showed a fine spirit of rebellion yesterday. 
-Senator Wright showed a fine spirit of rebellion yesterday. I would have thought that he and  Senator Rae  would not have allowed themselves to be constrained by any, shall we say, general arrangement to allow all speakers to have an opportunity to speak in the debate before 5 o'clock tomorrow afternoon. In fact, on our side of the Senate we took the view that we would do nothing that would limit the debate by way of either gag or guillotine until the opportunity had been given to all to participate. How  Senator Rae  or  Senator Wright  gained the impression that  Senator Rae  had to complete his speech within 15 minutes, taking into consideration that many other speakers took only two or three minutes, I am certain I do not know. 

 -The President of the Senate can take no direction from anyone if it is in conflict with the Standing Orders. If the honourable senator had wished to speak for one hour he could have spoken for one hour. The program before me was a suggested program in order to give everyone an opportunity to speak. There was nothing by arrangement on either side of the Senate that would limit the honourable senator's speech to 15 minutes. I am sorry that  Senator Rae  had to race through his contribution tonight, anticipating that he would have to finish it in 1 5 minutes. 
I want to put the view of the Opposition at this stage. We support this legislation. Some of us have reservations about the timing of it. We would have preferred the Government to have been taken to the electors at the time of its greatest unpopularity, just as it forced us to the electors in November 1975 when we were at the height of our unpopularity. The Government also deserves to be taken to the people at that point. If a half Senate election were to be held at the normal time I believe it would have been at the moment of the Government's greatest unpopularity. The purpose of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  bringing this referendum suddenly before honourable senators opposite is to escape that situation. It is for that reason alone. 
Some of us on this side of the House are aware of it, but having our policy- a policy with supports these referenda- we cannot move away from that policy, not matter what each one of us might feel about the tactics of the situation. We consider the referenda to be important to the people and to our concept of democracy. That is our view of it; of course it may not be the view of honourable senators opposite. We support these referenda proposals. In fact, as many Government senators have said, they are virtually our proposals. 
As honourable senators may have noticed today we have not put up  speaker  for  speaker.  We may have wanted to take advantage of the division in the Government side to allow you to be critical of one another and to descend, as you did yesterday, to the very pit of dispute and dissent. Of course we on this side enjoyed it immensely and thought that possibly there would be a repetition today. 
I am speaking to the Bills as I proceed. I am putting the view to you that we have given Government senators every opportunity to express their point of view. Perhaps your criticism earlier was quite unfair. I again put the point that we have not been putting speakers forward. As a matter of fact, we have denied some of our people to right to speak. If the second reading debate finishes tonight, they will be excluded from the speakers' list. I put it to honourable senators opposite that we on this side have been as fair as possible. I point out that we have been consistent in our support of these proposals. We are interested in what has to be said. Some of the points that have been raised have been valid, considered from a variety of positions. We have no apologies for the fact that we will support the passage of these Bills tomorrow. It seems that all honourable senators have accepted the reality that by 5 o'clock tomorrow these Bills will have passed through this place and the referenda will go to the people on 21 May. The National Country Party has taken the view: Let it go to the people. They are not opposing it. But if I might say so, they are more dishonest than the rest of you because their view of the situation is that they will let it go through the House - 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth acquired private land for its exclusive use in Albury-Wodonga. If so, where and for what purposes. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce and refers to questions asked by the 
Leader of the Opposition about the White Paper on manufacturing industry. The Minister will recall that those questions were asked before Christmas. What has happened to that White Paper? Is it true that Cabinet has instructed that White Paper be rewritten? Why has this been necessary? If Cabinet has taken such a decision, why does it view with such little concern the interest in this paper and the need for the manufacturers of Australia to know in which direction the Government is heading so that they can plan for the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received the annual financial reports on the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation for 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
When will the reports be tabled. 
What are the causes of the delay. 
Has the Minister any information relating to the tabling in State Parliaments of financial reports. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide summary funding details of the urban local roads program for Queensland for 1975-76 and 1974-75. 
Will the Minister provide summary funding details of the urban arterial road program and the rural arterial roads program for Queensland for 1975-76 and 1974-75. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
) When will the Governmentput into effect the recommendations of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. 
Is the Government intending to proceed with Recommendation 44 which refers to Australian Government assistance to State and local governments for improvement in library facilities. 
Will the Government establish a Public Libraries and Information Council along the lines outlined in Recommendation 3 of the Report. 
In view of the chronic inadequacies of public libraries in Queensland, will the Government take urgent steps to provide assistance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that the West German and United Kingdom governments have been opposing the United Nations Conference of Trade and Development (UNCTAD) proposals for a Common Fund, on the grounds that the 2 main beneficiaries are Australia and Canada, not the poorest of poor nations. 
) Can the Minister provide details of what the benefits to Australia, as calculated on the 10 Core Commodities, of the UNCTAD Integrated Commodities Programme, would be if a Common Fund is established in March next year and the commodity agreements are successfully negotiated. 
Could the Minister also indicate what progress was made at the November Common Fund preparatory talks in Geneva and if he feels that the Common Fund negotiations are progressing fruitfully. 
Is the Minister now able to make a definite statement of the Australian Government position with regard to the proposed Common Fund, especially if the Government feels that an early decision on the Common Fund could act as a catalyst to current commodity negotiations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What steps are being taken to alleviate the staffing difficulties of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, as outlined in the Director's Statement to the 1975-76 Annual Report. 
Will the number of staff be increased to continue and upgrade the work of the Service. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. How does the Government intend to respond to President Carter's call for demilitarisation of the Indian Ocean? Will it welcome this initiative and will it take the steps necessary to support it? 
-I ask a question that has not been asked previously. I direct it to you,  Mr President.  It has been reported that senators opposed to the referendums have met to prepare a case. Can we be assured that no officer of the Senate will be involved in the preparation or will assist in the preparation of such case? 
I found that speech by  Senator Wood  very interesting. I remember that one night  Senator Wood  read his speech. He got around standing order 406 by reading from  Hansard  his own speech which he made 12 months previously. 
-That is exactly what he did. Let me get to the point of what I want to say. 
-I put it to honourable senators that fewer speeches ought to be read in this place. In fact the Senate has been proceeding to that point. This year we have accepted the proposition that second reading speeches, which are perhaps the only speeches that ought to be read in this place, should be incorporated in  Hansard.  In fact tonight an important statement was incorporated. The Senate is getting to the point where fewer speeches are read; not more. I would have thought - 
I am opposed to the removal of standing order 406. 1 am just making the point that we have been quickly proceeding to the point where fewer speeches, including second reading speeches and statements, are read than ever before. It would be foolish to reverse the trend. Someone came forth with the horrific idea that a shadow Minister should be allowed to read speeches in reply to second reading speeches made by Ministers. Nothing would be more divisive, in my mind, than to allow that. 
My view is that if we are to change or remove standing order 406 we ought to change a few more rules. The time allocated to each  speaker  should be reduced to 15 minutes. If that is the case, we may be prepared to accept short, wellprepared and well-researched speeches. If the proposition is that we should read our speeches we also ought to limit the time allocated. Can honourable senators imagine the Whip in this place, if he has to meet a timetable, trying to encourage someone who has a well-prepared speech of some 25 pages to speak for only 10 minutes instead of for the full hour? I think that we do not properly understand the character of this place. It is quite different from what some people believe it to be. My view of this place- it ought to be the view of the electorate- is that it represents, shall we say, a meeting place of people who represent the people and who are similar to the people. What we debate in this place should be debated in simple terms that people can understand. If debates are carried on in simple terms, with some sort of cross-fire and interjection, people will be prepared to listen and in fact even to read  Hansard. 
I do not think we should be prepared to allow this House to become a highly technical House with prepared speeches being read. I refer not only to speeches prepared by those who support us in the Parliamentary Library and other places but also to speeches prepared by lobbyists- there are a considerable number of lobbyists- who endeavour to use parliamentarians in this place. 
I had no objection to the honourable senator reading his speech in support of his Bill on concessions by Aboriginals. I do not know the exact name of the legislation. I considered that speech to be a second reading speech properly explaining the Bill that the honourable senator was bringing in. One has no objection to such a speech, well researched and supported by legal opinion from outside the Parliament, being read. I am not objecting to that. I am objecting to the ordinary contributions of members of this place being prepared, supported and directed in such a way as to serve a particular interest outside this place. If we allowed this extension, one of the tendencies would be for speeches to be read more often than not. This House is half the size of the other place. It is a more intimate sort of chamber. For that reason I think it has been a better chamber. I believe that every member of this House, given certain notes upon which to build, can make a speech more effectively than if he stands up and reads a speech. 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. How does the Government intend to respond to the impertinent reprimand by the Indonesian Foreign Ministry to the Australian Ambassador concerning the evidence intended to be given by an Australian citizen to a United States Congressional committee? How does the Government intend to react to  Mr Malik's  threat of demonstrations against the Australian Embassy in Jakarta unless the presentation of such evidence is in some way prevented? How much longer does the Government intend to appease the Indonesian generals in their over-violent reaction to criticism within Australia of the atrocities which are continuing in East Timor? 
I take this opportunity to speak to the motion that the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen be agreed to. The previous business of the Senate has been proceeded with so expeditiously that some speakers in this debate might have been caught unawares. However, I wish to voice my concern about the economic trends developing in this country which threaten the security of every one of us in the community. This Government which has been the Government now for more than 12 months, must accept responsibility for the state of the economy. 
When the Labor Party was in government we pressed the point that the difficulties that the Australian economy faced were structural and were in some way related to the difficulties that overseas economies faced, especially the economies of our major trading partners. The present Government- the then Opposition- took the view that the Labor Government alone was responsible. It took that view to discredit the Labor Party and to encourage instability, unrest and concern within the electorate, thereby creating circumstances which would bring about the defeat of the Labor Government. It went further than that, of course. If we recall all the events leading up to 11 November we realise that the then Opposition was not satisfied to go the normal course of 3 years and face the Australian Labor Party at the normal election time. It took a devious course which has been clearly described by a variety of speakers over the 12 months and which brought about the wrongful dismissal of the Labor Government. 
These are matters of the past which from time to time will concern us but I do not intend to concern myself or the Senate with them too much on this occasion. I merely say to the Government that it must now accept responsibility for the state of the economy and it must also look well below the surface problems which exist and consider the possibility that the Australian economy has reached a position, after some 20 years, from which it cannot recover unless an in-depth investigation is made of the reasons for the failure of the economy to recover from the last recession. In fact Australia has remained in a recession while the rest of the world, having recovered, appears now to be going into the next recession. Something is structurally wrong with the Australian economy and the sooner the Government faces up to that and desists from using the old time methods to bring the economy into balance, the better. Unless it does so we will be faced with continuing massive unemployment to the disadvantage of us all. 
The social problems which have developed because of the failure of the Government to lift us out of the economic doldrums in which we find ourselves has led to much social dislocation in the community. I am concerned with the way in which the Government in the past two or three months has been attempting to place the blame for the lack of productivity and lack of incentive upon a group of people who find themselves in the ranks of the unemployed. The Government has attempted to brush away the extent of unemployment by saying that many of those who are unemployed are unemployed because they desire to be; that they are economic malingerers. It calls them dole bludgers, a term I am not prepared to use. I have intervened merely to enable my colleague  Senator Mulvihill,  who has been engaged elsewhere, to take up the debate on the Address-in-Reply. If  Senator Mulvihill  is ready, I am prepared to concede to him. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. I know that he does not read newspapers; but, as some of us do take note of speculation in newspapers, I ask him to answer my concern about speculation that 4 seats are to be abolished in the coming redistribution- two of those 4 seats being National Country Party seats and the other two being Australian Labor Party seats. How can such speculation arise? What are the guidelines which the distribution commissioners will follow in reducing the number of seats and what guidelines will they follow in giving Queensland the expected extra seat? Which State will be the loser in the process? 
by leave- I believe that this is a very important document, and I am sure that those senators who have had very close association with the committees which investigated the securities industry and subsequently the proposal to set up a commission to supervise the industry would agree with me. I am certain that this statement will be welcomed. There was a common opinion among the senators involved that the need for this sort of legislation was great, although there was some disagreement as to the method by which we could arrive at the legislation required. It seems that the Government has succeeded in obtaining the co-operation of all States in bringing down legislation, and that co-operation will expedite the establishment of some supervisory body to monitor the activities of the securities industry. It is worthy of note that those States which have Labor Party governments have co-operated. I make the small comment that that was not the case when the Australian Labor Party was in government, and perhaps that unnecessarily delayed moves towards common legislation. 
I do not know whether the Government proposes at some later stage to give honourable senators an opportunity to debate the statement or to speak to it. It may wish to wait until such time as legislation is brought down. I should have thought that  Senator Rae  would have some very important opinions to express on this revelation that the States have at last agreed to common legislation. Perhaps one or two other senators might have been prepared to express some views in anticipation of the legislation. However, I say merely that, after all the years of lengthy investigation from 1968 onwards, I am pleased to see that this stage has been reached. I will leave the matter there. I trust that the Government will give the Senate the opportunity to debate the statement, and perhaps the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  will be able to give us some advice. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer him to the national accounts figures prepared by the Australian Bureau of Statistics for the December quarter. Will the Minister at last agree that the fall in the gross domestic product by 1.7 per cent confirms the view that the Australian economy under the present economic policies is stagnating? Is he prepared to revise the Budget estimate of a 4 per cent real growth in the economy? I conclude by asking him: What has happened to the White Paper on manufacturing industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister investigated allegations of Australian Defence Department vehicles contaminated during atomic testing at Maralinga being disposed of in totally unacceptable ways. 
Was one of the vehicles registered in New South Wales. If so, can the Minister provide details of this occurrence. 
3 ) What was the reason for the sale of a contaminated vehicle to a private citizen. 
What happened to the remaining vehicles. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security and take up the questions raised by  Senator Knight  yesterday and by  Senator O  'Byrne today about Timorese refugees. In particular, I refer to that part of the answer which the Minister gave yesterday when she said: 
I understand that  Mr Dunn's  statements are not entirely accurate. There are some 1400 East Timorese evacuees in East Portugal . . . Fewer than 600 East Timorese refugees in Portugal have applied for migrant entry to Australia. 
I now refer the Minister to the answer to question on notice No. 1463, the fourth part of which asks: 
Have any applications for visas to Australia been received from East Timor refugees now in Portugal. 
The answer to that question was: 
Applications received to 25 November 1976 involved 1511 persons. 
Will the Minister take steps to reconcile those answers and to make certain that the answer that was given yesterday questioning  Mr Dunn's  accuracy is suitably corrected. 
I formally ask the Minister for Social Security a question which I asked by interjection yesterday with regard to the criteria which pertain to applications made by East Timorese refugees from Portugal or any other place to enter Australia. I ask whether the strict conditions which hold for migration for other ethnic groups hold for the Timorese in the situation in which they find themselves. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate why he allowed himself to be party to a device in putting down a very important statement on the problems that the uranium producers are facing. In answer to a question, which obviously was not a question without notice, he put down a statement that ought to be debated at length in the Senate. Is he prepared to ask the Minister responsible to put down a full statement which can be debated in this place? 
-by leave- I know that we on this side of the chamber have had no opportunity to discuss the matter, but I would like to put a firm view at this stage. My view is that what has occurred is to be regretted. I refer to your action,  Mr President,  in interviewing 2 members of the Press and talking upon yourself the authority to investigate a matter which should have been the right of the Senate as a whole. I would have thought that, if some question of privilege were involved, the person aggrieved- in this case,  Senator Simshould  have raised the matter here in the Senate. I think it ought to be made clear at least by someone that the action taken by you,  Mr President,  may be viewed as an action which can intimidate the freedom of those who represent the Press to write reports and to disseminate news without some fear that they may be brought before the Presiding Officers of the Parliament to explain their actions. That appears to involve a view that there may be likely intimidation of a very important arm of this Parliament, that is, the Press. 
That is not so. I will take the matter up more fully later but I think it ought to be made very clear at this time that it is not the role of the Presiding Officers of the Parliament to interview members of the Press to question their actions in such a way which may intimidate them in any future reporting of matters that come before the Parliament. I put this view and I put it firmly. I put it now rather than later. 
I do not wish to enter into discussion on the body of the report except to say that I am at strong variance with certain sections of it. At a later stage I will explain in what way I am at variance. Will  Senator Cotton,  who is in charge of the chamber at the moment, use his endeavours to bring this report into the House for debate as early as possible so that honourable senators may give some expression of opinion in defence of people who I believe, on what has just been said, have been not fairly treated. I think a case ought to be made by those of us who were closely associated with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs during the time in which the problems arose on which the Committee had to report. I think it is important that the Senate should not allow the tabling of any report which would prejudice any person unfairly, especially people which the report apparently takes as being within ministerial responsibility, such as members of staff, who would not have the opportunity perhaps even to present evidence to the Joint Committee of Public Accounts or would not have the chance of rebutting anything that appears in the report. I leave it at that. I ask the Minister to expedite the debate on this important report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 

 1 ) What are the results of investigations into radioactivity levels and the effectiveness of waste disposal at Maralinga. 
What radioactive material has been disposed of at Maralinga and in what quantities. 
Is the Government considering any measures to rectify this waste disposal problem at Maralinga. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 11 March 1977: 
Can the Minister provide an itemised account of expenditure by the Indonesian Red Cross of Australian aid allocations for the East Timorese? 
Has the Australian Government requested the Indonesian Government to allow Australian aid officials to directly ensure the provision of Australian aid to East Timorese? 
Is the Government contemplating further aid; if so, under what conditions? 
I do not doubt that what the Minister has suggested would be an aim, but it is not an important one. I suppose that for an Australian to become President of the Asian Development Bank is something to aim for but I think that we should rest on our record of participation rather than on the number of positions we can achieve on the Board itself. I spoke during the second reading debate and mentioned in passing the Common Fund. I realise that at present a United Nations Conference on Trade and Development is being held. We are represented at that conference. Seventy-seven countries of the Third World submitted a short resolution calling for the following decision: 
To establish a Common Fund which shall serve as the main instrument for obtaining the objectives of the Integrated Programme for Commodities and function as the central source of finance. 
Can the Minister explain whether we are to support the Common Fund? Have we a policy in regard to the Common Fund? Will our participation in the Asian Development Bank lead to some initiative which will support the Common Fund? Is the Common Fund which is suggested by the 77 under-developed countries a worthwhile achievement or initiative? 
-The Defence Amendment Bill (No. 2) which is before us is merely a formal Bill which the Opposition does not oppose. The second reading speech which was delivered by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  indicates that the purpose of the Bill is to remove the requirement under section 80b of the Defence Act 1903 for collectors of Service decorations to obtain permits for that purpose. The existing requirement was seen by the Government as an unnecessary restriction on collectors who had taken a great interest in Australia's military heritage and had done much to preserve our military relics. It is not necessary for me to read from the second reading speech because the Minister has already done that. With those few words, I commend the Bill and support its swift passage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Has the Minister considered reports from the  Washington Post  which allege that sub-standard parts have been sold to foreign military forces for their helicopter fleets. 
Have any of these sub-standard parts been responsible for two Royal Australian Navy Sea King crashes in recent years. 
Is an investigation being commenced to ascertain whether there is any link between the crashes and the substandard parts. 
Does the Defence Department intend to ground the helicopters in question, pending results of an inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for  Defence,  upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Government let a contract for a new supply vessel for the Australian Navy with French shipbuilding companies. If so, can the Minister provide details of how the decision to place the order with French companies was arrived at. 
) Were tenders for the project called for in Australia and other countries. 
) Were any Australian shipbuilders considered. 
On what grounds were Australian firms ruled out. 
What is the cost for the vessel and what are the ship's specifications. 
When will the project be completed. 
I rise to support my colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland. The Bill we are debating is the Asian Development Bank (Additional Subscription) Bill 1977 and its purpose is to obtain parliamentary approval for Australia to take up an increase of $US346.1m net capital subscription to the Asian Development Bank, of which $US34.6m is to be paid in and the remainder is to be on call. Of course the Labor Party supports the proposition, and supports it strongly on the basis of an increasing concern. I read this morning an article headed 'Aid staff to be cut- to act on cuts'. This is an odd headline, but upon looking into the article itself concern should be expressed by members of the Senate not only for the staff of the Asian Development Assistance Bureau but also at the fact that it is necessary, because of economic circumstances, to reduce the amount of aid being made available to underdeveloped countries. Nevertheless, criticism is limited to that concern. We trust that the economic situation will improve so that the Government can give a higher priority to aid to underdeveloped countries. 
In this place from time to time we prepare speeches in support of or in opposition to various Bills or various statements. I prepared some figures when the foreign affairs statement was being debated in this place but the time allotted for the debate elapsed and I did not have the opportunity to put down some figures which are very pertinent to the debate here tonight in support of the Asian Development Bank. I should like to recall a statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  which went as follows: 
The development of a more efficient and equitable world economic order is dependent upon trade and financial relationships. The continuing balance of payments problems of many developing  countries  has had a serious effect on their rate of development. 
No one can argue with that statement. It is absolutely fundamental and very much correct. The information that I want to read into the record is facts which are related to the underdevelopment of the countries which this Bill is endeavouring to assist. The facts are devastating. The overall picture, according to a report published by the United Nations at the beginning of 1970, is that there are today more sick, more undernourished and more uneducated children in the world than there were 10 years ago. So, in fact we are going backwards. In developing countries 100 children are born every half minute. More than half the world's population over 10 years of age has never been to school. In the mid-1960s, according to the report, the proportion of children of school age enrolled in primary schools was 53 per cent in Brazil, 55 per cent in Zambia, 40 per cent in India, 26 per cent in Pakistan and 34 per cent in Burma. Of every 100 children entering primary school in developing countries only 30 children finished their course. 
The statistics of the United Nations for the mid-1960s reveal also that out of a total world population of about 3100 million, about 1450 million people are without facilities for medical care. Five hundred million people suffer from the eye disease trachoma; 150 million people each year are victims of bilharzia which is caused by a parasite in the blood, and each year about 250 million people suffer from the skin disease filariasis. On average, an Indian has a daily intake of 1900 calories; a Kenyan, 2240 calories; a Peruvian, 2300 calories compared with 3 1 80 in the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom the average protein intake is 88 grams per person per day. In Peru, it is 55.4 grams and in India it is 47 grams. One can go on to read paragraph after paragraph in these reports which indicate how depressed conditions are in the underdeveloped countries. It is a sad commentary that as the years progress the position in the underdeveloped countries is becoming worse. For that reason the legislation which we are supporting tonight is of vital importance in order to lift the standards of those countries because their problems and their economic instability may spread and engulf us all. That is a matter of self- interest, of course. We should be forgetting our own position and endeavouring to consider the position of the under-developed countries. 
There are other means of assisting the underdeveloped countries which are being considered. I do not intend tonight to go into these but I would ask the Government to consider its attitude towards the Common Fund proposals because in this scheme there may be some greater advantage to under-developed countries than in the present rather narrow methods which are associated with the Asian Development Bank. Further than that, I have little to say except that there is a growing widespread concern. Fortunately, within our community a variety of organisations are growing in strength and are being added to by other organisations which seek to assist the under-developed countries. It is not only a financial exercise; it is a human exercise which we should be more vigorously supporting. This Bill is one means of support. We expect that the Government will introduce other means of support. 
The Senate may recall that when this statement was put down I welcomed it as a step towards the achievement of what is very much required in this country- a commission to regulate the securities industry. At the time it was not possible to read the statement. For that reason, it was not possible to give any firm approval of what was intended. Having read that statement. I see that the basic elements of a scheme are proposed. That scheme appears to be as follows: 
The establishment of a Ministerial Council comprising Ministers of the Commonwealth and each of the six States. 
The establishment of a full-time national companies and securities commission to have responsibility in the enure area subject to directions from the Ministerial Council. 
The continuation of existing State administrations; and 
The adoption of a proposal for legislative uniformity which recognises that the States are not required to surrender or refer any constitutional power. 
The statement goes on to indicate what else the proposal includes. I believe that the statement needs to be debated in the Senate at some length. The Senate has had 2 rather lengthy inquiries into the securities industry. One commenced in 1970. It led to the Rae report. I think we all are very much aware of the recommendations of the Rae report based on investigations which we all agree were thorough. They disclosed massive distortions in the securities industry in Australia which led to massive frauds on the part of a variety of people. This resulted in the small investors being seriously disadvantaged. The Rae report made certain recommendations. I do not believe that those recommendations are the recommendations which this statement proposes. For that reason I believe that we ought to have this discussionif I can put it that way- on this statement. In particular I should like to hear the comments of  Senator Rae.  There is no doubt that as 
Chairman of Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange for many years he became, I am prepared to say, the most informed person in this country on matters that troubled the securities industry. Those of use who served with him on the Committee also gained sufficient experience. 
I should like to hear from  Senator Rae  and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I should like to hear from  Senator Durack,  and I do not doubt that he will respond to the debate. I should like to hear from  Senator Wright  who was a member of the second committee that was set up to investigate the legislation which the Labor Government brought down. It did not conclude its deliberations because of the dismissal of the Labor Government and the double dissolution which followed. Nevertheless, in the period of its operation it amassed a considerable amount of evidence. If I recall correctly, the members of that committee were  Senator Wright,  the late  Senator Greenwood, Senator Durack,  former  Senator Drury, Senator Walsh  and myself. The point I want to make is that the Rae Committee's report and its recommendations ought to be considered carefully alongside the proposals outlined in this statement. To my mind they do not match at all. In my view the recommmendations of the Rae Committee would lead to effective supervision of the securities industry. There are certain weaknesses of the proposal in the statement now before us which the Rae Committee recommendations outlined. Also, I believe that in submissions given in evidence to the Senate Select Committee which investigated the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1975 there are answers to the problem. 
It would be unwise for the Government to bring down legislation based on this statement without going over both the reports I mentioned and looking at the substantial submissions which the industry put before those committees. There were some substantial and well prepared submissions and the conclusions in them were not the conclusions that have been arrived at by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  I do not wish to say anything other than that. 
It is not for me to go back and outline the many abuses which the Rae Committee revealed. They are now part of history. They are part of history because we have delayed for so long in enacting legislation in this place based on those investigations. In this statement it is said that now, after such a period of time, we can soberly assess the legislation that is required. That is an excuse for the delay that has taken place. I am not saying that there has been delay by this Government alone. During the term of the previous Government delay was unavoidable. It seems regrettable to me that the investigation carried out by the Rae Committee which started in 1970 should not produce the necessary legislation 7 years later. After all, we are not debating legislation at the present time; we are merely debating a statement. 
I notice that the statement says that the Attorneys-General of the various States will meet again on 6 May. It may be another year or another 2 years before those gentlemen come to some agreement. Also there are some very grave problems posed as to whether the proposed Ministerial Council will be able to set up a commission which will work with the corporate affairs commissions in the various States to supervise the industry properly. Again I say that we ought to speed to the point of passing legislation in this place that will bring the securities industry under the necessary supervision. Companies and corporations are still failing. The weaknesses that the Rae Committee exposed in the securities industry are appearing again. The watchdog and supervisory role which that Committee imposed upon the industry in an indirect way during the years of its investigation is gone. 
At present there is no committee looking into the collapse of some very substantial companies in this country. To my mind it seems urgent that we have the necessary legislation. If we are not to have it then perhaps we ought to be referring to one of our standing committees from time to time some of the failures taking place in the securities industry, thus bringing the industry under some indirect supervision by this chamber until the legislation which is so necessary is enacted. I do not think that that is a very good idea but it seems to me that the securities industry cannot continue to be unsupervised. With those remarks,  Mr President,  I say again that I trust that this statement will lead to a debate in the Senate which may give us some further enlightenment on how the Government ought to proceed to establish the necessary commission. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I have raised certain questions on the position of Timorese refugees and the stance that the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has been taking on their entry into this country. I must admit that I am puzzled about the conflict between the figures given on the one hand and figures given in answer to questions on notice. We receive the assurance from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  that special criteria would be laid down for these people. At this stage 1 put the case that the special criteria ought to be farreaching. There seems to be some determination on the part of the Immigration Department to classify these people in terms of refugees and in terms of migrants. I am not certain that we ought, in the circumstances which prevail, make this separation. 
I think that since there is so much concern about what is happening in East Timor in this country and that our consciences on both sides of the House are troubled we should be looking at these people with the utmost sympathy and we should be doing our utmost to provide entry to all concerned. I do not go so far as to put any criteria of suitability or employability on this. I am saying that we ought not to be imposing these limitations at all and that there is a special case for the East Timorese. That case has been put in the Senate on several occasions. 
I accept the interjection. I accept it so that it goes down in the record. 
Yes, I responded to it possibly instinctively and also because it will serve a purpose.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has now taken a position in relation to the Timorese which I believe is regrettable. The Timorese are very much in close relationship with the Australian people. I imagine that several honourable senators on the Government side will put a case that the Timorese ought to be considered differently. 
I do not think many people realise that I am possibly the oldest Territorian in this place, not excluding  Senator Robertson  and  Senator Kilgariff.  I was born in Darwin. I know that there has been for many years a close association between the East Timorese and the people of the Territory. There has been continual communication. There has been a record on the part of the Timorese concerning the defence of Australians in East Timor. There has also been a record of opposition by the East Timorese to the Japanese invasion. I am saying that we cannot place the East Timorese in the same category as refugees from South Vietnam. I say that without in any way denying the rights of the South Vietnamese to have some sort of sympathetic consideration. The East Timorese are in an entirely different category for the reasons that I have given. I hope that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, on reconsideration, might accept that these people are in a special category. Not many people are involved. I think the number of applications- this information was provided in an answer to a question- was 1 164. 
Special circumstances require special consideration. In view of the small numbers we should be able to take all these people without making it difficult for them in any way. I would be encouraged by some support on the part of Government senators. I know that there is a latent support but the politics of the situation has influenced Government senators to remain silent. I know the difficulties that they face. I have been in that position, feeling quite hostile about what my Government was doing in certain areas but having to remain silent for a period. But with this problem which is a very human problem I think that we ought to take a bipartisan view. We ought to be freely expressing our support for humane consideration of the East Timorese people who seek to come to Australia. 
I wish to speak to the motion to put the amendment. I know that I cannot reflect on the decision of the Committee not to report progress, but this is an amendment of some substance, despite the fact that  Senator Wright  thought the Opposition was being satirical in mentioning it. It is an amendment of some substance and ought to be considered by the Opposition at a Party meeting. We have not had an opportunity to do that. In fact, we have not even had an opportunity to see the amendment, it has not been circulated. It should have been circulated and given due consideration, not only by members of the Opposition but by quite a number of members of the Government who are not aware of the amendment. I doubt whether  Senator Messner  has a copy of the amendment before him; I do not think  Senator Baume  has;  Senator Townley  has not;  Senator Thomas  does not know about it. The Committee is in the situation of considering an amendment which has not been circulated but which ought to be considered. I put it to the Committee that there ought to be some debate on the amendment before we dismiss it. 
-For 3 nights now we have debated the setting up of a committee of the Senate to investigate the Timorese problem or referring that matter to a standing committee of the Senate. If the proposition fails at least we have the satisfaction of knowing that for 3 nights honourable senators have spoken on the matter and have expressed their points of view. Practically every honourable senator has done so. Others who have not spoken have listened with keen interest. Throughout the whole debate there has been a sincere desire on the part of honourable senators to take party politics out of the debate and in my opinion, with one or two exceptions, that desire has succeeded. 
What the Opposition is proposing, and what some supporters of the Government are proposing, is that a committee of the Australian Parliament should undertake an inquiry and make a determination upon the events which have occurred in East Timor. Essentially, that is what we desire. It is not sufficient for the executive government to make a declaration. It is not sufficient for a United States congressional inquiry to make a determination. It is the responsibility of this Parliament, this Senate, through a committee, to seek out the facts available and to determine the truth of the submissions brought before it. I think the Senate would fulfil the role that it has established for itself over many years if it were to take upon itself the responsibility of such an inquiry. As far is many members of the Opposition are concerned it matters not whether the original motion as supported or whether the amendment proposed by  Senator Missen  is supported. There can be no question that the inquiry would determine what it would mainly endeavour to determine, that is, the position of the East Timorese, especially the refugees now in Portugal and the many who are now in Australia. It would be able to make some recommendation to the Government as to what sort of support should flow from Australia to East Timor and to the refugees of East Timor. It would be able to seek out information and make a recommendation regarding the death of the 6 journalists and to undertake an inquiry as to the position of the families of the 6 journalists and whether they have been suitably compensated for the loss of their men in East Timor. It seems to me to be the role of a Senate committee, whether it be a standing committee or a Senate select committee, to undertake such an inquiry. 
My view is that members of the Senate committee will take that non-partisan position that is often taken on committees and seek out the truth and make the necessary recommendations. I do not think we have anything to fear from such an inquiry; nor should we back away from an inquiry because it may embarrass the Indonesians. One could fairly describe the Indonesians as a people governed by a group of military generals who have sought to impose upon the East Timorese- they have practically succeeded in doing so- a military solution, with great hardship to many people and with great loss of life. We should not take into consideration the so-called sensitivity of which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack spoke or the sensitivity that these generals may express. We should put that to one side and proceed with our inquiry because I believe that for the period of the inquiry there will be an endeavour on the part of the Indonesians to put the best face on the situation. We may indirectly alleviate the suffering in East Timor and other places. There may be a better understanding or a better response on the part of the Indonesians to very many propositions that will be put to them by refugees and relatives of refugees if there is a current inquiry in Australia on the matter of East Timor. 
Some senators expressed their point based on their practical experience and with great sincerity and knowledge. One felt a sympathy with them, and I think the sympathy has flowed to them from both sides. That is not the position in regard to other speakers. I must say that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack repelled me when he placed his opposition to the inquiry in these terms: We should not do anything in any way by an inquiry which may antagonise the Indonesians; we should continue to appease them. I say to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack that what we have done and what we are continuing to do in this soft appeasement of the Indonesian generals may set the pattern for future treatment of Australians and the Australian nation. I put it to the senator that Australia is in no more favourable position than Chile or the people of Chile who became a sacrifice to the power manoeuvrings of great nations. I also put it to the senator that Australia is in no more favourable position than the people of Greece who found themselves subjected to military dictatorship because of the manoeuvrings of major powers. It is quite possible that Australia will find itself in the same position, of being considered expendable in the face of some threat from the north. Each step that we have taken over the past 12 months seems to have encouraged the Indonesians to consider themselves a major power in the region. The subtle references by the Indonesian Foreign Minister must give little comfort to many of us. 
Tonight we seek to have a vote on this proposition. The matter has been debated for long enough. I make an appeal to those who may have some doubts on this matter. The inquiry will do no harm but will advance the position of Australia in these considerations. It will certainly aid the Timorese people and will not disadvantage them. It will certainly seek out information concerning the death of the 6 journalists. It will not be an embarrassment to Australia. Perhaps it may be an embarrassment to Indonesia. According to a statement by the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  as reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  today, we are still friends. In the concluding paragraph  Mr Malik  said that one of the reasons why we are still friends is that Indonesia might want more aid from Australia.That is the subtlety of Indonesia's approach. It has managed to carry out a completely inhumane exercise in East Timor. It is satisfied that Australia has acquiesced in this situation. It is satisfied that in spite of its actions it may still come to Australia for aid and receive aid. 
My opinion is that we should carry out an inquiry, ignore the Indonesian reaction and seek out the truth for ourselves. It might not be what we expect. Nevertheless, the Australian Parliament will reach its own conclusions. My view is that either of the propositions can and should be supported. I do not know the purpose of  Senator Harradine  's suggested amendment. If it can lead to an inquiry by some committee of this Parliament it should be supported. We should not back away from an inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Can the Minister provide details of expenditure under the new National Apprenticeship Scheme for the years since its inception. 
Can the Minister provide expenditure details for each State. 
How many apprenticeships for each year received subsidies. 
What were the numbers of apprenticeship assistance under NAAS per State. 
What areas and centres in Queensland received NAAS and in which industries. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Is the Attorney-General aware of constitutional difficulties in the State of Queensland in determining replacements for retired senators under section 15 of the Constitution. 
Will the Attorney-General agree that section 15 refers to a joint sitting of both Houses in appointing a replacement senator and as a consequence the Queensland State Parliament cannot meet this constitutional requirement. 
How many replacement senators have been appointed by the Queensland State Parliament since 1 949. 
Will the Attorney-General provide the names of the replacement senators and their period as senators. 
If the Attorney-General agrees that there is considerable doubt regarding the application of section 15 to the Queensland State Parliament for the purposes of appointing replacement senators, can the Attorney-General outline what measures will be taken to rectify this anomaly. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
What is the number of applications for visas by Timorese refugees now residing in Portugal. 
Has the Government made any decisions relating to visa applications from Timorese refugees. 
Have any applications been granted. If so, how many, and how many remain outstanding. 
If not, what are the reasons for such a prolonged delay. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) Can the Minister provide details of the operation and effectiveness of the Small Business Bureau. 
How many businesses in each State have been assisted. 
What have been the major forms of assistance provided. 
Has the Government any plans for increasing the effectiveness of the Small Business Bureau. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Can the Minister provide further details on discussions being held between the Department of National Resources and industry representatives on the proposed Uranium Marketing Board. 
What decisions have been made since 10 December 1 976 in relation to a Uranium Marketing Board. 
Are discussions continuing on the basis of a go-ahead on new uranium developments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
What percentage of apprenticeships, according to industry categories, will not be eligible to receive assistance under the curent guidelines of the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training Scheme. 
What are the main apprenticeships which will be now ineligible. 
Is the Government taking measures to rectify the situation where some apprenticeships will no longer be entitled to receive a subsidy due to a very low or no technical training component in the period of apprenticeship. 
Will companies that require apprentices to do night training at technical institutions be eligible for the subsidy. 
What is the average number of days spent in technical training by apprentices. 
What is the projected increase in the number of apprenticeships due to Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training over the next three financial years. 
If there is an increase expected on what basis was it calculated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the number of Thailand Army officers who have received training in Australia for each year since 1 970. 
2 ) Under what arrangements were they trained. 
3 ) How many are currently in training. 
What is the level of military aid to Thailand for each financial year since 1949. 
What is the amount of military aid for 1976-77. 
Have any discussions with the Government of Thailand been held relating to future military aid and training; if so, that are the details of such discussions. 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the completion of the Hope Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. Has the Government made any decisions relating to the public release of all or part of the report? If the Government has decided to release it, when will it do so? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Recently there has been renewed speculation about oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. Will the Minister assure the Senate that such speculators will not be supported or encouraged? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) How many arrests of persons of Aboriginal descent have been made in the Northern Territory in each year 1970-76. 
What are the major charges laid against Aboriginals for each of the above years. 
What are the numbers of charges dismissed or not proceeded with. 
How many convictions for each year have been made. 
What sentences have been carried out on average for each of the years. 
What is the percentage of total arrests constituted by persons of Aboriginal descent for each of the years 1 970-76. 
What is the number of Aboriginal women arrested in each of these years. 
What is the number of Aboriginals under and over 1 8 years of age arrested. 
What is the total number of persons under and over 18 years of age arrested in the Northern Territory. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether reports of the March quarter consumer price index show an increase of 4.3 per cent? Are those reports accurate? If so, will the Minister agree that this represents an annual inflation rate of over 16 per cent? If that is the case, will the Minister explain how the Government expects a single digital inflation figure to be achieved this year? 
I have listened with considerable interest to  Senator Knight's  contribution to this debate and give considerable support to what he said. Much of what he said in relation to the need for appropriate technology transfers I agree with wholeheartedly. Therefore, one would hesitate to put the position of the Opposition- that is, its opposition to the Bill. Our opposition is based not so much on the principle of giving overseas aid but upon the dismantling of the Australian Development Assistance Agency and the establishment of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs. We believe this to be a retrograde step. The 
Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  made this clear in his introductory remarks. He has also made it clear that this may be a device to reduce the level of overseas aid. 
In this world of massive division between the rich and the poor- no one would deny that the division exists- those of us who have had the opportunity to travel north into South East Asian countries, and I can accept that  Senator Knight  must have travelled to these countries, would be impressed most unfavourably by the division which exists between the peoples of, say, Sri Lanka- Ceylon as it was known- and the peoples of Australia. In comparison with some of the provinces of India, Sri Lanka is advantaged. Nevertheless the division between the rich and the poor of countries of South East Asia and other countries to the north is, in the terms I have used, massive. The type of assistance which countries like Australia can provide is therefore crucial to the development of these countries. One finds it very very difficult to accept the position that the Premier of Queensland takes when he says: 'Ignore the needs of the many millions to the north; look after our own first'. That parochial attitude is to be deplored when one considers the deprivation of the people of the many countries to the north of us. We cannot afford even in the depressed economic situation in which we find ourselves to reduce in any way the level or the effectiveness of the aid which we provide. 
It is my firm belief that the bulk of assistance must meet the recurring problems of poverty, malnutrition, disease, illiteracy and the cultural and social needs of the recipients. Because they are recurring problems there is the need of continuing aid by Australia to these countries. For too long Western aid to the developing countries has been misplaced and misdirected. Those of us who have been on committees can realise just how much of the aid we have provided to countries to the north of us has been misplaced, misdirected and misused by the recipient countries. I would have thought that we should be directing our attention to this misuse of aid rather than to reducing the amount of aid. If it is necessary for economic reasons to maintain aid at the same level we must make certain that it is not misused. Unfortunately also- and there is criticism that we on this side must make- that aid has served as a mechanism to entwine the poorer countries within our own framework. The aid has been directed towards that end more than it has been directed to alleviating real poverty and oppression. One could be excused if one were to come to the conclusion that sometimes we give assistance and some support to development in underdeveloped countries merely to serve our interests and not to serve the interests of the recipient countries. One could criticise us for exporting know-how to the countries of the north and one could be cynical and say that the know-how is not to assist but merely to obtain a cheap advantage, sometimes to the disadvantage of our own industries and factories in this country. 
The need for co-operation between rich and poor countries is probably the single most important step we can take in changing the global imbalance, but co-operation means partnership, equality and a willingness to accept the need for ourselves to change. We cannot continue to accumulate the world's resources- that is what we are doing- while millions starve. I merely take our country in isolation, but we could be one of a number of nations which are guilty of this manoeuvre. We are the ones who will have to rethink our obsessions with growth, consumerism and resource development. We are the ones who will have to alter our view that the Western affluent countries should be served with commodities by the Third World and underdeveloped countries. If mankind is to survive a more equitable world system will have to be evolved or we will have to suffer many Vietnams. This may sound pessimistic but it is my view that unless we lift the standards of the people who surround us- not so much the people who surround us because by using that expression I might have to include Tasmania, so I should say the people in the countries to the north of us- in a time of world economic stress their poverty could invade us. If we look at this purely from a selfinterest point of view, this is something that we must resist. Fortunately, although steps towards a new international economic order which have been put forward by Third World countries have been small, they have been a significant move towards equality. I think  Senator Knight  covered this area quite effectively. He spoke of several schemes, including commodity schemes which seek to improve the position of the raw material producing countries. Our responsibility in Australia is to accept that changes are a necessity and to work in a co-operative way towards evolving those structural changes. 
The Bill we are debating today very clearly represents to me and to the previous speakers on the Opposition side a backward step. Many of the non-government agencies involved in development co-operation are moving backwards. The Bill before us is a measure which frustrates the need for change not only in the type of assistance which we should or should not provide but also in the delivery process involved in providing assistance. It is this backward step which we oppose. Under this Bill the Australian Development Assistance Agency is to be dismantled and the Bureau is to be established within the Department of Foreign Affairs. This seems to be the point of our main opposition because it does impose limitations on the method by which our aid is to be delivered. The Bill abolishes an independent agency which was established by a Labor Government and supported at the time- I emphasise this point- by the Liberal and National Country Parties. The purpose of the Agency was to assess and to deliver an Australian assistance program, independent of foreign policy considerations. I repeat: Independent of foreign policy considerations. It was felt then that assistance programs were reduced in effectiveness by their overriding influence of direct political policies. Humanitarian considerations were secondary to the rule of political expendiency. The Australian Development Assistance Agency was an initiative designed to limit direct political influences and to enhance the humane ideals- to enhance them as keystones for assistance. 
What has happened now is that the Agency, having become a Bureau, is directly affected by foreign policy considerations. The establishment of an Assistance Bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs damages the trend which was developed some years ago towards depoliticising Australian assistance. This, I believe, can be seen clearly if we look at the speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in detail.  Mr Peacock,  in introducing this Bill which integrates the Australian Aid Bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs, provided some questionable excuses for the dismantling of legislation. The Foreign Minister's speech needs careful analysis by all Australians. I wish to comment on several points in  Mr Peacock's  speech which show how damaging this change is to the process of evolving a more balanced and effective assistance program. In his speech,  Mr Peacock  said: 
Experience over the last 1 2 months has already shown that the reintegration of the Agency into the Department has had a beneficial effect on the administration of our overseas aid program . . . 
That is the message that  Senator Knight  endeavoured to project in his speech. I would dispute this comment by the Minister. Increasing concern has been expressed overseas about the delays and frustrations in the delivery of the Australian aid program. Honourable senators should realise, of course, that the Agency has been dismantled for quite some time. This is merely the dissolving legislation that we are dealing with now. In fact, what we are doing now is merely going through a  pro forma  exercise to repeal the legislation. For instance, the comment by  Sir Albert  Henry, who is the Prime Minister of the Cook Islands- one of the group of islands to our north-east to which we direct some aid- at the recent Commonwealth Parliamentary Association 14th Australasian Regional Conference in New Zealand said that the Australian aid program was similar to taking a SOc ride on a bus. In relation to Australian aid programs,  Sir Albert  Henry further commented: 'When one is offered aid, one is asked, for instance, which bus one desires, what colour it should be, who is to drive it and whether he is wearing a cap. By the time all these questions are answered by the recipient country, the bus is gone'. This is a comment made by  Sir Albert  Henry. This type of comment is coming from many sources throughout our region. Similar comments have been made by government leaders in Papua New Guinea, the South Pacific and South East Asia. Under the new administration of our overseas program, now within the Department of Foreign Affairs, there are in fact increasing delays in the provision of assistance. When referring to where the integration of the Agency into the Department of Foreign Affairs would lead,  Mr Peacock  said: 
. a closer relationship between the Bureau and other areas of the Department . . . 
What advantage he sees in that, I am not quite certain. He said that this would lead to a professional approach to aid administration. However, since the administrative reintegration with the Department commenced a year ago there have been numerous resignations of former professionals on the staff of the Agency. There seems to be a sense of despair, according to reports, which pervades the corridors of the new Bureau. Many of the professional staff of the Agency who still remain feel that this reintegration has hindered the development of a professional approach to aid administration by placing the Australian assistance program directly under the Department of Foreign Affairs. That is the opinion of the professionals in the Bureau who previously worked for the Agency. Many of the staff now feel that Australia's political, economic and social interests will now dominate our aid considerations and that the role of the genuine humanitarian approach has been dismissed.  Mr Peacock,  in making this point about the Agency, has been less than honest in informing the Australian public of the many resignations of staff and the low morale within the proposed Aid Bureau.  Mr Peacock,  in his speech, went on to say that this Agency would lead to: 
. a deeper overall appreciation of the importance of development assistance in Australia 's foreign policy. 
This, therefore, seems to underline the true meaning of the Bill. This, to me, appears to be the crux of the matter: 'A deeper overall appreciation of the importance of development assistance in Australia's foreign policy'. To understand why it is a shameful act to dismantle the independent Agency established by the Labor Government, it is necessary to look at the background of the establishment of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. We could put that development in human terms. Those members of the Senate who have been in contact with the various aid programs sponsored by this Agency will have come in contact with thousands of young men and women who have come from underdeveloped countries for training within Australia and they will be aware of the effectiveness with which that program has been carried out. 
As I said earlier, for many years there has been considerable debate within the community concerning the reasons for providing overseas assistance and how that assistance is to be delivered. Throughout the 1 960s there was increasing criticism from developing countries of the major industrial countries for tying aid to political ends. The Third World countries believe that they were recipients of assistance because of political and economic considerations of the donor countries. In other words, the Third World countries were expected to give some political advantage to the donor country in exchange for developmental assistance. That is the only way that  Mr Peacock's  deep overall appreciation of the importance of the development assistance in Australian foreign policies can be defined. The opposition to political reasons for the provision of assistance became increasingly strong in the late 1960s and the commencement of this decade. In the early 1 970s several advanced industrial western nations, including Sweden, Canada and the Netherlands, restructured their assistance progams in order to limit this political involvement in development aid. In 1973 Australia, under the Labor Government, followed the trend and instituted the Australian Development Assistance Agency- with, I repeat, the support of the Liberal and National Country Parties at that time. This Bill will destroy an autonomous body whose sole aim is the provision of development assistance to countries in greater need. In other words, what assistance is desired by Third World countries, and what level Australia can provide are now to be confused with a whole host of political considerations. In his speech  Mr Peacock  said: 
The Bureau will have a very substantial degree of autonomy in relation to financial management of the development assistance program. 
My point here is that this is fine but no mention is made of policy decisions. Further, the Department of the Treasury will continue to oversee the financial side to the same degree as in the past. This will continue the difficulties already experienced in instituting innovations in the program. To claim that it will have a degree of say in financial management says very little indeed and certainly does not clear up my concern that in the all important area of policy the new Bureau will be dominated by the Department of Foreign Affairs. Yet this Bill goes further. By abolishing the Development Assistance Advisory Board the participation of the community in the decision making process has been destroyed. The Minister says that he is giving 'very careful consideration before taking any action' to involve the wider community. The Minister has had over 18 months to consider this. I suspect he has done little. Surely he has had long enough to make a decision.  Mr Peacock,  in an attempt to soften opposition to the dismantling of ADAA, changes tack when he says: 
The Government remains firmly committed to the achievement of the internationally accepted target of 0.7 per cent. 
Yet the Government has done the opposite to these fine words. In fact assistance has been slashed to the lowest level in the last decade. It is now 0.48 per cent of gross domestic product. Under the Labor Government the figure reached nearly 0.6 per cent. 
The Minister's statement is a mass of words which will mislead and misinform the public. This Government has not the slightest interest in reaching the 0.7 per cent target. Yet it will cynically pronounce to the Australian people that it intends to reach this target. I believe that the Government has no idea of how it will budget for this target. I would dearly like to know how the Government intends to attain this target especially when it is so obsessed with slashing government programs. 
Finally, I would like to say that this Bill demonstrates the abandonment of the Third World's problems by this Government. Whilst this Bill shows an abandonment of changes to the structure of the assistance program, it was the failure to provide effective and positive support to the common fund proposals at the United 
Nations meeting in March 1977 that reinforced this trend of an abandonment of humanity by this Government. 
The Minister may deny this but it was clear to most observers and participants at the Geneva meeting that the Australian delegation was not only ill-prepared but also very negative in its approach. Most Third World delegations were disappointed with the Australian approach. This denial of change by the Government will only discredit Australia in the eyes of the Third World. This was clearly displayed in Geneva. It will become even more evident as the effect of this negative and destructive Bill becomes increasingly understood in Australia and overseas. 
-I direct to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs a question which refers to the answer he has just given concerning the air traffic controllers dispute. Will the Minister accept that the strike is of a different nature to other strikes which have occurred recently? Will he accept that it is a matter of status- of increased responsibility for which the controllers are seeking improved status? Following that incident in which 2 Qantas pilots were arrested for being under the influence of liquor- 
-I beg the honourable senator's pardon; they were allegedly under the influence of liquor. But following that incident and other incidents of a similar nature which increase the responsibility of air controllers, would the Minister not consider it reasonable that the Government should be looking at this dispute in a different light and that it should accept that some quick decision ought to be made to prevent a recurrence of these 24-hour strikes from time to time? 
I must place on record the difficulties that the 
Whips face- I use the plural here. I am certain that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  appreciates the difficulty. On the last day of sitting in a week it is necessary for arrangements to be made to get honourable senators back to their States, especially as winter approaches and each morning is likely to be heavy with fog and the airport could be closed. It is not satisfactory to have such a sudden change to the proposed sitting times unless the matter is of extreme urgency. Rumour is about that there is some important legislation to be brought down and I would not object to some dislocation if the matter was extremely urgent but it does not appear to be urgent. If it were so urgent, then some decision should have been reached by the Government ealier this morning or perhaps yesterday rather than placing us on the hook that we are now on that we will not know until after 1.30 p.m. what we are going to do tonight. It is extremely difficult for the Senate to be run in this way. In particular I want to indicate how difficult it must be for the transport officers to make arrangements. 
-Perhaps the Government will suggest that you sleep in a local park tonight or in your room in the House. It is not a very good way to be running the Senate. 
-There is the old story of the brass monkey and the weather in the early morning in Canberra would add support to that story. I again put the point that it is unfair for the Senate to be put in this position and for honourable senators to be placed in the difficult situation in which they find themselves. I trust that the Government will make the necessary arrangements to get honourable senators back to their States if they are stranded by fog tomorrow morning or by the air traffic controllers dispute. 
-I put the responsibility on the Government,  Senator Webster.  It could have settled this air traffic controllers dispute. I asked a question about this matter this morning and received a reasonable response from  Senator Carrick.  That dispute is of a different nature. It involves increased responsibility which the air traffic controllers have to expect at present. Several court decisions have been made which indicate that the responsibilities which the air traffic controllers have to accept mean that their status has to be changed. If the Government is complaining about the 24-hour strike it should accept some responsibility for it. The Government should have done something about this matter several months ago. It cannot shift the blame onto the air controllers and I resist that suggestion. Let me get back to the point. I do not think that it is a fair way to run the Senate. It is for that reason that I wanted my comments to be put in the record. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Can the Minister outline the numbers of youths who have participated in the Community Youth Support Scheme. 
2 ) How much has been spent in each State on the scheme. 
What organisations have received support under the scheme. 
What are the numbers of youth and organisations assisted under the scheme in each employment district in Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Does public sector expenditure on education in 1 975-76 in relation to gross domestic product put the percentage at 6.0 per cent. 
Is it the case that for preceding years the percentages were 6.2 per cent, 5.0 per cent, 4.7 per cent, 4.6 per cent and 4.3 per cent (1970-71). 
Does the 6.0 per cent in 1975-76 represent the first decline in public sector expenditure on education in relation to gross domestic product. 
Can the Minister provide financial details creating this decline in 1975-76. 
Are any projected figures on public sector expenditure on education in relation to gross domestic product available for 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that social security cheques being forwarded to Aboriginal settlement missions in Queensland are being opened by community officers and deductions are being made from the cheques for rental and electricity costs and that the balance is then handed on to the Aboriginal addressee. 
Has the Minister given permission for this action to be taken. If not, if such action is taken, is it in accordance with the provisions of the Act. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 March 1 977: 
1 ) What education expenditure has been affected by recent Cabinet decisions to curtail or suspend areas of Government expenditure for 1 976-77. 
Which areas have been cut or deferred. 
3 ) What amounts of expenditure are involved. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. If the situation is as the Minister has just stated in reply to the previous question, what is the position concerning the fine music group in Brisbane? Why has there been a continuing delay in the issue of that licence. If it is possible to give a licence to the University of Melbourne on the conditions just stated by the Minister, why has the Brisbane group been denied a licence for so long? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 15 March 1977. 
1 ) Have there been any cutbacks in expenditure on Aboriginal student grants for secondary and tertiary students in 1977. 
What is the number of applications for Aboriginal Student Grants for each State for 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977. 
How many grants have been made in the years 1973-1977. 
Is the Department aware of increases in the number of Aboriginal students reaching tertiary standard. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Under what conditions can a mining company increase the size of a single mineral lease beyond the standard 320 acres. 
In view of the fact that Darra Mining may be granted a cement export licence, has the company been granted such exemptions for their mineral leases at Mount Larcom in Central Queensland. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the proposed cricket circus which is being organised by  Mr Kerry  Packer. No doubt the Minister is aware that  Mr Packer  has signed on 5 South African cricketers for the proposed series. May I therefore refer the Minister to the United Nations General Assembly resolution which was adopted in 1976 and for which Australia voted. The resolution urges all States to implement the recommendation contained in the report of the Special Committee Against Apartheid concerning apartheid in sports; namely, to refuse visas to South African sports bodies or teams or sportsmen except for non-racial sports bodies endorsed by the Special Committee. Will the Government take action to stop South African sportsmen engaging in the international cricket circus while in Australia this summer? 
-The reaction to my question from  Senator Young  and  Senator Baume  is to be expected. Nevertheless, I think their reaction is in contradiction to the Government's attitude in this matter. Will the Government take action to stop South African sportsmen engaging in the international cricket circus while in Australia this summer? Will the Government make it clear to  Mr Packer  that the Government will not tolerate participation by South Africans in this series? 
-I briefly want to support what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said concerning the congestion of Bills which is occurring at present. This has become endemic in the past few years. I suspect that it was also the case before my time. It seems to me that one could be excused if one made the charge that public servants, heads of departments and those concerned with the presentation of Bills to this place deliberately held off the introduction of Bills so that they came into the Parliament late and could not be properly considered by all parties and by the Parliament in debate. I support  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's statement. From the Whips' point of view, the 
Parliament cannot be conducted efficiently if there is a congestion of Bills. 
In my experience, what happens in the last week is that the Bills are not properly debated in the Party rooms. They often come into the Parliament and reach the second reading stage before the parties have a chance to discuss the contents of the Bills and to have them investigated by the various Party committees. I believe that to be very serious, because much of the work in this place is carried out in the committees of the parties. They should have an opportunity to look at legislation and to suggest amendments to the parties. That is especially important on the Government side. It is also important on the Opposition side. 
I think  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's point is valid. He said that there should be some provision that would force departments to bring down their legislation early in the session, that there should be a cut-off point and that after that cut-off point, unless it is emergency legislation, they should not be able to introduce legislation. I have heard all sorts of arguments about drafting and the difficulty in getting Bills properly drafted. My view is that the departments have not geared themselves to bring down legislation. I come back to the point which I made earlier. I believe that in some cases it is deliberate. If I did not have my experience in the Senate Chamber, I would go back to my experience as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. There is evidence that time and time again the departments delay in preparing regulations. It forces the Committee to accept substantial retrospectivity in regard to payments. When one looks at the reason, one finds that a department has not attached sufficient importance to getting the regulation down in time or, in the case about which I am talking at present, the Bills down in time for the Parliament to consider them properly. If the Public Service believes that it can stampede the Parliament into hasty legislation, it should be disillusioned as quickly as possible by the Minister responsible. 
I  take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  a question concerning the Great Barrier Reef Authority and the Consultative Committee. I ask him whether he will supply at the earliest opportunity a list of the members of the Consultative Committee, the area of their responsibility and the limit of their authority. I have been led to believe that the Great Barrier Reef Authority, which consists of 3 members, is the authority that makes the decision and then merely receives advice from the Consultative Committee. However, some statements made by the Queensland Minister for Mines and Energy seem to indicate that the Consultative Committee has a role beyond that and that it may make a decision on such matters as future drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. I think that it would be wise for us to be clear on the nature of the Consultative Committee, those who have been appointed to it and their role in relation to the Authority itself. 
Certain questions have been asked of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  concerning the payment of unemployment benefits to school leavers. Answers to these questions have been given since the estimates were debated. The real question now arises as to the stance members of the Opposition should take to the passing of this large sum of money for the Department of Social Security if the Department is to continue to refuse to give justice to those people concerned. It is clear now that people should have been paid unemployment benefits but have not been. 
Yes. The opinion that we have expressed over a period is that the Department acted illegally. We also now have a High Court judgment which seems to indicate that our position some months ago was the correct one. We said that it was illegal for the Department not to pay those amounts of money. 
If the honourable senator insists on taking up my time - 
-Perhaps it is difficult for the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who is in charge of these Estimates, to take up the responsibility of the Minister for Social Security. Let me make the point that we seem to be dealing with these important estimates in the Committee of the Whole in a rather cavalier fashion. Honourable senators know that the Minister responsible for the various areas is not in his or her place at the time the relevant estimates are being debated. It is not in the best interests of the Senate for this to be so. Also it is difficult for the Public Service advisers to be present while the estimates are being debated. I just make that mild criticism at this stage. We will take the matter up more firmly if it occurs the next time the estimates are being examined in the Committee of the Whole. That is the query I want to put to the Minister following on questions that we have asked consistently. I ask the Minister whether the attitude of the Department will be that once the Karen Green case has been decided all subsequent cases will be treated individually and every school leaver will have to go through the individual procedure of challenging the Department, or is the Department intending to make a determination on this matter and subsequently treat all other applicants accordingly? 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government. It arises, in part, from a question asked by  Senator Jessop  yesterday concerning South African sportsmen. Is it not a fact that the Government signed the United Nations resolution No. 316F which includes individual sportsmen as well as teams? Is it not the case that the Government understood its meaning and how it should be implemented prior to agreeing to this resolution? Is it not a fact that although Tony Greig has lived in England for some 14 years, the 5 South Africans named for the Packer circus all play in the South African Currie Cup, which excludes black South Africans and whose spectators are segregated? Is it not the Government's policy to isolate South African sportsmen and teams from international sport? Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate reaffirm this policy? 
I take the opportunity of this debate of the Estimates to ask the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  a question that I have been asking for a number of months. It relates to the Great Barrier Reef and the research into the problems the Barrier Reef area faces that a variety of committees have considered to be necessary. I ask the Minister: What research has been undertaken under the estimates for his Department to meet the problems of the Barrier Reef, with specific relationship with pollution from the mainland, over-fishing of the passage between the mainland and the Barrier Reef, and the general ravages inflicted on the Barrier Reef by shell collectors and spear fishermen. I list all the problems now because, although the Minister may not be able to answer these questions now, he may be able to do so at a later stage. I think it is wise that the matter should be raised in the Senate at this stage. 
I go from the general to a particular matter and refer to the starfish infestation of the Great Barrier Reef. What progress has been made in this respect; what research moneys have been made available; what assessments of the problem has the Minister received; and when can he provide us with a further statement on this problem? I mention another problem faced by the Great Barrier Reef, although I do not think it concerns the Department of Science as much as possibly the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. In spite of recommendations by a number of committeessome Senate committees and some joint committees of the Parliament- a renewed case for the need to drill the Great Barrier Reef seems to be emerging. I have received a letter from the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  but, if what he says in the letter is correct, this problem does concern the Department of Science. I shall read part of the letter I received from  Mr Newman  in response to a question I asked about speculation on oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. The second paragraph reads as follows: 
You will be aware that the previous government banned oil drilling in the Barrier Reef area pending research into possible effects of oil on the ecosystem of the Reef. 
My view at the time of the previous Government- it is still my view- is that the previous Government banned oil drilling in the Barrier Reef area and the ban was not dependent upon research into the possible effects of oil on the ecosystem of the Reef. Oil drilling of the Great Barrier Reef, which is now the responsibility of the Great Barrier Reef Authority, was prohibited under the policy of the previous Government. I was of the opinion that it was the policy of the present Goverment as well. If, however, the ban is dependent upon research into the effect of oil on the ecosystem of the Reef then one must ask whether any research is being undertaken into the effects of oil on the ecosystem of the Reef and, if so, whether the Department of Science is involved in this research. 
My view is that research may be necessary to discover what effects oil spills would have on the continental shelf. I am not saying we ought not to be engaged in that research; what I am saying is that the future of the Barrier Reef ought not to be dependent on that research. I thought the Barrier Reef area was excluded from the problem of oil spills and oil drilling. I should like the Minister for Science to take up this matter. I raise it because I think that, if there is a renewed interest in drilling the Great Barrier Reef, the organisations which took such an interest in this matter, those who strongly opposed oil drilling in this area and succeeded in having a prohibition applied, ought now to take a renewed interest in the matter. I repeat that although it may not be possible for the Minister to answer the various questions I have asked, I still believe it necessary to place the questions on record at this stage. 
I must persist with this because I do believe that the Minister is not aware of the responsibility that the Commonwealth Government now has. He is still of the opinion that the prime responsibility for the Great Barrier Reef rests with Queensland. I would have thought that because of the legislation which was passed and which was upheld by the High Court the prime responsibility rested with the Australian Government. It is not a matter for the State to determine what research will be carried out and what will be the effects flowing from that research. I believe it is the responsibility of the Australian Government. I know that 2 departments are involved. If the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development has been carrying out research, surely it would be carrying out that research with the assistance of the Minister's Department. It would be quite unacceptable if the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development set up a whole area of scientific research without the cooperation and full involvement of the Minister's Department. That is the question that I am putting to him. 
Let me make this point clear. As far as the Opposition is concerned because of the legislation for which the Labor Government was responsible, the responsibility for the Great Barrier Reef rests with the Australian Government. The Australian Government has appointed an authority and it has also appointed a consultative committee. I do not doubt that the Department of Science is represented on that consultative committee. I would like to challenge what the Minister has said. The prime responsibility is not that of the State. The prime responsibility lies with the Commonwealth Government and for that reason the Minister has a prime responsibility in this area. 
I want to get one point straight about the Brisbane area. I take a great objection to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  implying that young people leaving school did not register for unemployment benefit because they showed no real interest. They were discouraged from registering. In many cases that came to my notice in the early weeks they were turned away from the counters at the Commonwealth Employment Service offices. They were told that they could not register. They were told that it was of no use for them to register. Many hundreds of young people were misled in this way. Now they will be disadvantaged in making any approach for some compensation for non-payment of unemployment benefit during the school vacation. I make a plea to the Minister. There was no lack of initiative on the part of the youngsters. They were discouraged by statements being made in this place. They were being discouraged by officers at the counters of the various Commonwealth Employment Service offices. So please let there be no slur on the youngsters. They were entitled to register. They were being given wrong information. They were declared not to be school leavers. They were to be judged not to be school leavers until the end of the vacation period. 
I find this whole exercise quite immoral. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  for whom we have a great respect, is in a very difficult situation because the Government has not had the guts to advise the Department of Social Security that it was wrong in the first place and that it should correct the wrong. I would say that the Minister has revealed in her answers that she has been going against her better judgment. It is my impression that it has been quite unfair for her to be forced into the situation in which she finds herself. Why does the Government not admit that it was wrong, and why is it not prepared to pay out the $5m or $6m that it should be paying out to these people and their families? 
-I have been muttering by way of interjection so I had better make my interjections aloud. Briefly, the abuses that have been creeping into the system are as I shall indicate. We pay substantial pensions by way of superannuation to public servants and members of the Defence Force. They make a decision to retire from the Defence Force or from the Public Service and go onto superannuation. No one is arguing about their right to do that. However, it becomes questionable and undesirable when members who have resigned on full pensions then seek and obtain employment in government agencies and government corporations at substantial remuneration. Within this Parliament we possibly have people who are on full defence pensions and who are also engaged either as research assistants or secretaries to committees and receive substantial salaries. My point is that if they are going to come back into government service either directly or indirectly the pension which they then receive as a result of their government employment should be reduced to prevent the abuses that are now starting to creep in. Not only in this particular case should this question be raised. The matter, having been raised, ought to be taken further. 
We ought to be now looking at the situation where people retire early according to their entitlement, receive substantial government pensions and then add to this government pension by employment within the government itself or a government agency. What they do in private enterprise is their own business. If they come back into the government there should be some sort of limitation, as there was in the past, as I recall. If a person receiving a government pension came back into government service his pension was reduced to 50 per cent. Because of the apparent abuse of the system it may be necessary for the Government to reconsider and go back to the old formula. That is all I am saying. There seem to be people now on a pension of some $15,000 or $16,000 a year coming back into government employment, either directly or indirectly, and receiving another $16,000 or $ 1 7,000 a year. They are in a far better economic position if they retire early and take advantage of the situation. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (3.57)- I intrude into the debate merely to make an observation in the context of the argument advanced by  Senator Georges  when he referred to members of the defence forces. Members of the defence forces are not in the same situation as the average run of government employee. They are in a special category. Let me give the Committee an illustration to make the matter clear. I am not referring in any way to any person who is employed or attached to a parliamentary committee. A naval officer, for example, who is fixed in the promotion zone at the rank of a lieutenant-commander, which has an age relationship in peace time, has the option of either being forcibly retired at the age of 45 or retiring voluntarily at the age of 41 or 42, realising that he is embedded in a promotion zone and he cannot go any further as the result of confidential reports on him which he has signed. 
He opts at that age, when he still has an earning capacity, to take the benefits that accrue to him from the Defence Force Retirement Benefits Fund and then seek to pursue further an incomeearning career. If at that stage he happens, for reasons that are proper to the Parliament, to be employed, for example, in the House of Representatives secretariat in a certain area, that is not analogous to the problem we are discussing at the moment. I merely rise at this juncture to make clear to the Committee that  Senator Georges'  argument is not valid in the context of defence force members who retire at a certain age. 
Many are retiring before their time and before they need to. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation, perhaps after the Minister is finished. 
-I want to ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  one or two questions about this admirable legislation which is receiving the support of both sides. Will he not agree that the need for this legislation is to free the industry which makes loans available for housing from the responsibility of failure in repayment? Is that not the correct situation? That is how I view it. Does he also accept that the reason why it is necessary to have such legislation and to improve upon such legislation is that high interest rates exist in the community at the present time for those who wish to purchase homes? Would he not agree that the reasons for these high interest rates is that one of the main responsibilities for home lending has rested with the building societies which he, as a member of the party that was in government before 1972, encouraged? Is it not also correct that those building societies have been the pace setter in interest rates? Furthermore, does he not accept that the Government, by making special loan issues to the community at high interest rates has forced up to record heights the interest rates that building societies have to pay and therefore have to charge? In making these statements in the Committee stage I may be somewhat out of order but these matters were raised by the Minister in closing the debate. So I ask him this question: Is it not a fact that interest rates have risen and will continue to rise until such time as the building societies are brought under some control and are rationalised into one, two, three or four major national concerns? The sooner this is done, the better. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I express the view that the Karen Green decision is the most callous administrative action by a head of a department that has been brought to the notice of the Senate. I ask the Minister: Does she agree with the court's findings in regard to the period of 3 months elapsing in the school vacation before a school leaver becomes eligible for the unemployment benefit? Does she agree with Judge Stephen when he said:   it cannot be proper to impose such a period in the case of one class of applicants . . . while imposing upon no other class of applicant any such requirement relating to a minimum period of job-seeking. 
I ask the Minister: Shall we forget about what happened in the past 6 months and consider what is going to happen in the next 6 months? What is to be the decision of the Governmenther decision- in regard to school leavers at the end of this year when the court's decision is taken into account? 
Let me make it clear that I did not include terminating or co-operative building societies in my criticism of building societies. I am talking about the permanent building societies which, in my mind, are s"till running out of control in the money market. It would be in the interest of the Government to give more support to the terminating building societies and the cooperative building societies, and then legislation such as this would not be as necessary as it is at this time. If inflation is running at a single digit level, as the Minister says, why is it necessary for building societies at the present time to be paying as high as 10Vi per cent on borrowings and 12 per cent on loans? 
Will the Minister not admit that the special loans which the Government has created has taken money away from the building societies, forcing them to put up their interest rates to attract money, one in competition with the other? This supports my argument that they are pace setters. If the Minister will just agree to that we possibly could dispense with this debate. At the present time the interest rate that building societies are changing on home loans is 12 per cent. The interest which they are paying on moneys which they borrow from the community is running as high as 10½ per cent. Can the Minister indicate when it is likely that there interest rates will come down? What initiative is the Government going to take to support the terminating building societies and the co-operative building societies and to bring the permanent building societies back to their rightful level? 
When the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  is considering the case put to him by  Senator Missen  will he also consider the amount of fuel tax that is paid by the States? He will probably realise that in States such as Western Australia and Queensland people have to travel distances of 500 or 600 miles using a darned sight more petrol than is used per capita in Victoria. Queenslanders and Western Australians pay much more fuel tax a head of population than people in Victoria pay. I listened to the case put by  Senator Chaney.  I was impressed by the case for Western Australia. It is a case that could be put for Queensland. I appreciate that we cannot grid the whole of the nation with roads just to carry one or two vehicles but some roads are necessary to be built. An extra $3.2m will not seal much road when one considers present day costs. 
My sympathy seems to lie with  Senator Chaney  except when it comes to his statement about the caucusing that takes place in the Australian Labor Party. At least we have a little bit of discipline in our Party. I understand  Senator Chaney  's concern that he no longer seems to have any control over his members on that side as to what they are going to do, what they are going to say and how they are going to vote. It must be embarrassing for him and for  Senator Withers.  I have just received my instructions as to what is going to happen for the rest of the evening. I do not need to seek leave to continue my remarks because the Government has other intentions. I will leave the matter at that. I would like the Minister to consider the points I have raised. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I have not much to say on this Bill. The Senate having passed Supply Bill (No. 1), Supply Bill (No. 2) is now a routine matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
That does not sound like an improvement. Since the question has been raised and since the previous Government has been criticised, it is important. Am I correct in stating that the figure given was $ 1,000m? 
I beg your pardon. I was thinking in Arabian terms. If it were $l,000m I would make the point that when we speak of such sums of money- we are rapidly becoming adapted to such sums- perhaps the criticisms made in the past were unwarranted. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: As many thousands of youngsters are going to leave school in a few months, what advice can be given to them so that they will not find themselves in a position similar to that in which Karen Green found herself? Should the advice be that whenever they apply for a job they should do so in writing? Is the advice to them that they should keep a file of all applications and answers to those applications? If they do that, will those applications be considered as a genuine attempt to find work on the part of these young people? 
Last night I moved a motion for the adjournment of the debate on the first reading of Supply Bill (No. 1) 1977-78. 1 am pleased I did so as it gave  Senator Baume  the opportunity to give to the Senate and the people of Australia information of vital importance. It gave him the opportunity to expose a person who can only be described as a desperate scoundrel. Perhaps  Senator Baume  deserved a better audience than he had within the Senate. It is a pity it is not a day when the proceedings of the Senate are broadcast so that the information he has given here could receive wider publicity. 
I want to indicate to the Senate one or two things concerning procedures in the Senate which have troubled me for some time and which I feel need to be corrected. Firstly, I think it would be agreed by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber that attendance in the Senate chamber has not been the best. We have worked with a spirit of co-operation and, realising the amount of work honourable senators have to do outside the chamber, have refrained from calling for quorums. We have not insisted either that the Government parties are responsible for maintaining the House, that they must make certain that at all times a quorum is present. Had we been, shall I say, less than cooperative we possibly would have called for quorums from time to time. Surely honourable senators on both sides of the chamber will accept that if the attendance in the chamber drops below 1 5 senators we ought to attract the attention of the  President  or the  Chairman  to that position. I am not going to come back after the recess and make that announcement as though I had come back fresh from a rest. 
-Not from a trip overseas.  Senator McLaren  might suggest that a few of us are going overseas. But I will be coming back fresh from the frustrations of this place and will be starting to call for quorums. I should like to make it clear that if the numbers in the chamber drop below 15 senators I shall be one who will call for quorums. 
-I am tempted to do so now. 
Yes.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I attract you attention to the state of the House.  (Quorum formed.)  The temptation was too great to resist when it was suggested that I might commence carrying out my intention. I was saying that on both sides of the chamber it had become evident that attendance in the chamber is not as it should be and that, realising that it is the Government's responsibility to maintain the House, we on this side of the chamber could frequently call for quorums in order to embarrass the Government and to interfere with the work that undoubtedly goes on outside the chamber. 
The point I really was making was that we will have to maintain some level of attendance and it would be reasonable to suggest to the Senate that if the attendance falls below 15 senators a quorum should be called for for the benefit of both sides of the chamber. I was merely indicating that when we come back for the Budget session it is my intention to call for such quorums.  Senator Grimes  put it into my mind that I should call for a quorum on myself as there were not 1 5 senators in the chamber and so start the record from today. It may be said that I have suffered some disappointment today and am kicking at the first shin I can find. That is not the case. 
-No, as it turned out 1 was not. If I had performed 2 weeks ago the way I am performing today perhaps I would have been up for election. With those few words, I think I have made my point on the first reading of Supply Bill (No. 1 ). I again congratulate  Senator Baume  for bringing before the Senate a very important matter. I think there is justification for calling for a quorum when an important statement is being made by an expert in the medical profession against a person who really is endangering the health of many people in our society. 
-The Opposition does not intend to engage in any lengthy debate at the second reading stage of this Supply Bill. Some Opposition senator's have spoken at the first reading stage and some 
Government senator's also have contributed. Both sides made worthy speeches, if I might say so.  Senator Kilgariff's  speech outlined a problem in the Northern Territory. After hearing him, I must admit that it is a very serious problem, not only for the Northern Territory but also for the southern States. Unless brucellosis is brought under control, the whole of our meat export industry will suffer and it will aggravate the problem which  Senator Kilgariff  outlined. 
When I see the words 'Supply Bill' I have a kind of Pavlovian response. I am reminded of the problems faced by the Labor Government, when it was in office, in having the Supply Bills passed and the obstruction with which it was faced. On the first occasion, at this time of the year, the Labor Government was delayed and obstructed and then, at a later stage, it faced the same sort of obstruction. I am wistful about this matter. I wish that we had the numbers. 
-Not for me. I am a pacifist, but only in matters of war. In matters of politics I am not a pacifist. I would respond in kind if we had the numbers and I could convince the rest of my colleagues. Most certainly the Government would not get Supply and it would have to go to the people at the moment of its greatest unpopularity. 
I believe in the Senate's exercising the power that it arrogantly took unto itself until such time as the people rebel and take away from the Senate that power. The only way in which that will be done is for the Senate to misuse continually its powers until the people are aware of that misuse. I will not say much more on this matter. We would like to proceed with the program today. From time to time we merely fill in time to allow certain procedures to be sorted out.  Mr President,  while you are in the chair, you deserve a reasonable audience. Therefore, I attract your attention to the state of the House. (Quorum  formed.)  I wish the Bills a speedy passage. 
I think that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  who is in charge of the Bills, ought to appreciate that if he requires the legislation to be passed he should be less loquacious. It seems quite extraordinary to me that the Opposition will accept that in this final week of the session we should limit our debate on important Bills and take these Bills as a group in order to assist the Government to complete its program this week and yet the Minister replies at such great length, knowing of course that he could have had all these Bills passed within a few minutes. If he is prepared to give himself the time then he ought to be prepared to give me the time to raise one or two questions concerning these Bills. What troubles me is this: In spite of all the discussions about which the Minister has spoken, in spite of all the dialogue, in spite of all the responsibility thrust back to the States, no real progress is being made to solve the structural problems of education in this country. 
Perhaps the Minister, in his discussion and dialogue and in making his recommendation that moneys should be paid by way of a variety of grants to the States etcetera, should consider the problem that we are facing at all levels in the education system. Perhaps he should look at one or two of the reports which seem to show that we have reached a period of zero population growth in Australia; that our maternity hospitals on the one hand are empty and, on the other hand, our geriatric wards are packed; that every item of expenditure that we decide upon now should take into account the grave problem that we may be facing, particularly in respect of the education system; that there may be an oversupply of teachers, for instance, or an oversupply of buildings or of graduate students which the community cannot absorb; that much of the money being expended by virtue of these Bills may be wasted in the long run. I want the Minister to give some thought to that and to give some answers. 
I shall quickly refer to a periodical which I have before me- the Journal of the New South Wales Teachers Federation. Without looking further than the first page we see an article written by the  President  and headed 'The Future of Teacher Supply'. The article reads: 
Problems with regard to Teacher Supply must be sorted out in the near future. We have had a number of discussions with the Minister for Education.  Mr Bedford,  and with the Federal Minister,  Senator Carrick.  We can summarise what we do know as follows: 
I ) There is an underemployment of available teachers at present - 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! We are in a rather difficult position. We are dealing with 4 Bills and we are in Committee. I think you are making what is rather a second reading speech. Whilst I am not going to stop you. I ask you to think about that and to try to abide by the normal rules that apply in Committee. 

 -Yes. Mr Chairman. I ask the Minister, therefore: In all these deliberations which have been taking place and with all this money which is being made available, have he and his officers taken into account the serious structural problems that arc emerging because we appear to have reached zero population growth? Firstly, what docs the Minister intend to do to correct the situation as far as teachers are concerned? Secondly, what is he going to do to correct the situation in which many students and graduates are emerging from colleges of advanced education, technical colleges and universities and have nowhere to go? Behind them arc thousands of other students seeking the same qualifications and will have nowhere to go. thereby making the situation even more serious. In all this talk, what is being done about those practical problems? 

 -Mr Chairman, I am pleased to hear - 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
I was speaking prior to the suspension of the sitting. I wanted to give the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  an opportunity to reply to a few queries that I made concerning what I consider to be a very serious problem that is facing the education systems throughout Australia. I said that it was more than a matter of simply conversing, communicating and exchanging points of view with the States. Although the Minister gave us the welcome information that the Williams Committee is investigating these matters and that it will report next year, it does not give me much encouragement because it may mean a continuation of this useless and non-productive dialogue that has been going on for so long. The crisis is with us now. The need is immediate. It is my belief that the need ought to be attended to now. I trust that the Minister will give me some comfort on this. 
I feel obliged to say something. It would be to the disadvantage of the Senate if in about 5 or 10 minutes we were to slip through this legislation and the other Bills that are on the program. I am not inclined to assist the Government in the passage of its legislation; but if the Government senators are not going to put forward any arguments in support of the legislation tonight, then it is obvious - 
Well, it is suggested that we get up when we finish the program. We might finish at 9 o'clock. 
Will you lift the Senate at 9 o'clock? 
-This is taking cooperation a little too far. 
-No, no. In all seriousness, I must take up one or two points that  Senator Messner  brought forward. I do not have very much expertise- I have revealed this from time to time in the Senate- but one thing I do have is a sort of practical nous which has been built up by experience and day to day participation in just living.  Senator Messner  talks about there being an increase in consumption. That is not true. The statisticians are a little behind the times. If the honourable senator goes to the market place he will find that there has been no increase. In fact, over the last 2 months there has been a sharp decrease in demand or in consumer activity. In my own city of Brisbane there has been a lack of activity over the past 2 months bringing us to a point this month and next month where demand- that is purchasing of goods for resalehas decreased sharply. 
-They are not as bad as they are this year. Many small businesses in Brisbane are closing down. They just cannot face up to the economic problems that this Government has presented to them. What this Government has done is to put the economy into reverse. Honourable senators opposite could argue that under the Labor Government we were going too fast, that we were doing things too soon and the economy could not stand it. I am not prepared to admit it but Government supporters could put a case for it. What is happening now is that the economy has gone completely into reverse. It is a much more dangerous exercise to put the economy into reverse because it can place the economy into such difficulties that it could go backwards quickly. The number of small businesses in Brisbane to my knowledge that have found themselves in difficulties over the past weeks include the local blacksmith who says he has no future work. The job that he is doing is the last job that he has. There is also the sheetmetal works in Stafford Road, if I can return to localities, which is closing down because it cannot continue. The proprietor cannot meet the competition from overseas. As a nation we have depended - 
He cannot for the simple reason that goods are being produced by what is termed 'off-shore' operations by Australian firms. Those firms were supposed to go overseas to help the underdeveloped countries to develop knowhow. Let us admit it. All they did when they went overseas was to get cheap labour. They are the ones who are endeavouring to reduce tariffs. 
-They are the ones who are destroying local industry.  Senator Lajovic  says that it is being destroyed by costs. What  Senator Lajovic  wants to do, with the rest of his colleagues, is to reduce the real level of wages and reduce the conditions of workers so that those costs can be reduced to equal the costs of those workers overseas who operate on depressed wages and conditions. 
-The honourable senator can say that it is stupid. All that I can say is that over the next few months he will see the reality of what I am saying. What this Government has decided to do is to take a bludgeon to the economy. It has succeeded in mutilating the economy to the extent that small ordinary businesses cannot survive. Their difficulties in paying their bills have increased. They are seeking extended credit. They take 60 days to pay bills that normally they would pay in 30 days. 
-It is not a matter of inflation; it is a matter of lack of sales. There is just no purchasing power in the community. The community is suffering from a fair complex at the present time. 
-If that is the case, they are not using their ability to purchase.  Senator Lajovic  is admitting that the Government has put people into a state of uncertainty about their future. They are placing their money in banks, building societies, credit unions and special loans to the Government at 10 per cent and I0!4 per cent interest. They are certainly not purchasing. What  Senator Lajovic  is saying is that we have reached a maximum growth position. There is no growth in the economy at this time. 
-If the Government wants to reverse the economy to the point where people will not buy, it will get the economy into serious difficulties. It has already done so. 
We can bring in more people. We can bring in another 100 000 migrants and we can supply them with the most difficult jobs in this nation- jobs on the assembly lines. 
-Senator Lajovic would be well aware that the first generation of many a migrant family has been sacrificed. They come to this country in a situation of great need. They have the incentive to work hard. They have the incentive to accept less and they accept less. They have what might be called the potential to purchase. They have nothing when they come here. They need a home and furnishings for the home. They need a car and they need to educate their children. What  Senator Lajovic  is saying is that we should bring these people into the economy in great numbers in competition with the unemployed who exist at the present time to discipline the workers of this country to work harder for less. That is exactly what the Government would like to do. That is exactly what it will do. I can see it coming. The Government will try to develop a growth factor in the community by introducing another 100 000 or perhaps 150 000 migrants a year. What this will do is to make those people economic slaves within the community based on their great need. That is what you want,  Senator Lajovic. 
-If you are part of that - 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Perhaps he can clear up a contradiction. Yesterday we heard from several Government senators that a consumer led recovery is taking place in the community. Is the Minister aware of the continued decline in consumer spending in many key industries, such as the 0.7 per cent decline in retail sales,' the 18.6 per cent fall in car registrations and the 15 per cent drop in house building approvals? How then does the Government continue to justify statements about economic recovery? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
Before I seek leave to continue my remarks, I express my dissatisfaction about the growing practice of not distributing sufficient copies of important statements but placing copies of them in the Parliamentary Library. If we are to spend many thousands of dollars on getting reports, which in most cases are very excellent reports, copies should be made available at least to all honourable senators and honourable members. Perhaps I can go further and say that they should be sent to all relevant organisations, especially those which made submissions to the committee or to the inquiry. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
In doing so I repeat the remarks that I made in regard to the previous report that was presented. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has presented a report and sufficient copies of it are not available for distribution. She informs us that copies will be placed in the Parliamentary Library. Again I say that this practice is not satisfactory. I think that copies of this report, which I consider to be more important than the other 2 reports, should be freely available. I wonder whether the Minister can assure us that copies will be available at the earliest opportunity. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I wish to raise a matter of concern. I think I expressed that concern during the second reading debate. 
-You cannot hear me? 
-The problem with the honourable senator is that when I am shouting he complains, when I am smiling he complains and now he says I am muttering. 
-Yes, I shall come back to my restrained delivery. I wish again to express my concern about clause 10. As I read it I see the dimensions of the intended Industrial Relations Bureau and the standing of the Director. I now ask simply of the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs  (Senator Durack):  Will he explain the exact difference between the standing of the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate and the standing of this proposed new Bureau? If the status is so considerably increased by this legislation, as I fear it is, does that not support my concern that the Bureau may on its own, without ministerial supervision and without the supervision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, take initiatives which could cause constant and irritating confrontations within industry? 
My questions were ignored by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack).  I should like to take them up again. I raised the matter of the difference between the Inspectorate and the new Industrial Relations Bureau. It seems to me that there is a tremendous lift in status. If there is a tremendous lift in status, there will be greater responsibility. If there is greater responsibility, there may be a desire to take on initiatives simply to justify that responsibility. It seems to me that the question I ought to be asking follows the question that  Senator Button  asked. What will be the remuneration of the Director? What qualifications will be required? What is the anticipated cost of this Bureau? In these questions. I believe, rests the answer as to what this Bureau actually will be and what it will do. The Minister said that it was not to settle disputes. He said that it was not to take any sort of - 
Yes, industrial disputes. It seems to me that its operations will initiate disputes. Rather than lessen the work of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, it will increase it. Rather than lessen confrontations, it will increase confrontations. I want to know exactly what the difference will be, in nature and character, between the Bureau and the old Inspectorate, and what is the difference in cost. 
I would not like to say that  Senator Walters  is dishonest but she did not read the first 2 paragraphs of  Mr Hawke  's statement. Let me read the first 2 paragraphs of the document from which she read. It is entitled: 'ACTU Statement for Conference with Minister Street, 1 1 May 1977'. I shall also read from another document entitled: Special Conference of Affiliated Unions held 18 May 1977 in Sydney'. The first document reads: 
Having expressed at length the detailed reasons for our total opposition to the Government's proposed amendments to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Act, we make the following statement: 
This is the document that  Senator Walters  has. It that correct? 
-The statement continues: 
This existing legislation contains a range of 'pains and penalties' provisions. It is known that some of those provisions conflict with the policy of the Australian Trade Union Movement. What we therefore put now does not imply into the future a change of our policy in that respect. 
I emphasise the words 'a change of our policy in that respect'. The ACTU has not changed its policy. The statement continues: 
However, that is not the current issue. 

 Senator Walters has already quoted the next 2 paragraphs of the document. So Bob Hawke was prepared to come to a compromise in relation to the legislation that we are now considering and say: 'Well, in order to avoid a confrontation, in order to avoid the massive dislocation that the community was going to face, we will accept the Bureau for the moment, provided you abandon the present amendments and you keep in mind that our policy is that we are against all pains and penalties'.  Senator Walters  was not reading the statement correctly. 
-Next time read the first 2 paragraphs. I shall read into the record 4 paragraphs of the other document entitled: 'Special Conference of Affiliated Unions held 18 May 1977 in Sydney'. It reads: 
The Executive reaffirms the Trade Union Policy that penalties and threats of penalties are not the process whereby the problems of industrial relations are resolved. These problems are best resolved by negotiation and consultation. 
That is the policy ofthe trade union movement at the moment, although it is prepared to compromise. The document continues: 
The ACTU Executive endorses the action of the Officers in their handling of the ACTU position in regard to the proposed amendments to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That position was contained in the following statement put by the Officers to Minister Street on 1 1 May 1977: 
Having expressed at length the detailed reasons for our total opposition to the Government's proposed amendments to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Act, we make the following statement: 
This existing legislation contains a range of 'pains and penalties' provisions. It is known that some of those provisions conflict with the policy of the Australian Trade Union Movement. What we therefore put now does not imply into the future a change of our policy in that respect. However, that is not the current issue. 
If what  Senator Chaney  is doing is a sign for me to conclude my remarks, can he advise the senators sitting behind him to be less provocative and more accurate. In any case, I merely put into the record the exact position, which is not the position which  Senator Walters  put. 
-I should like to suggest that the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  ring the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  whom he represents, and suggest that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations accept the proposed amendment. It is a simple proposition. Really, what the Minister is saying is that the Australian Council for Salaried and Professional Associations is unacceptable. He persists in that, otherwise he would accept the proposed amendment. He says: 'That organisation is unacceptable to us at the moment because the secretary and the executive officer were the only ones who communicated with us. Even though they are unacceptable on that basis, they became acceptable by right of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. ' I cannot understand that at all. Why should this unacceptable organisation be able to make a sort of back door arrangement to receive representation? 
What  Senator Button  has said is correct. The Minister is approaching this legislation in a way which causes me fear when 1 consider again what the Industrial Relations Bureau will do. If this is going to be the attitude ofthe Minister, what will be the attitude of the Bureau? I add to  Senator Button's  remarks and suggest that the simple proposed amendment will merely formalise the arrangement which has been made between ACSPA and the ACTU. It will merely formalise that arrangement in a correct manner and not an incorrect manner. 
Resentment runs deep in the union which the Minister is disadvantaging- I should say 'not recognising', which is worse than disadvantaging and not respecting. From where I stand it seems to be inconceivable that the Minister cannot accept the change of position as expressed by the secretary and the  president  of the union concerned. The Minister seems to say now that the union concerned will have to hold a full council meeting to reverse its previous attitude- it is not sufficient for the 2 executive officers to indicate such change. 
-A full council meeting possibly could have been held. Perhaps the Minister would indicate whether he investigated whether the telegram resulted from a full council meeting. Surely he would not expect the full council to put their names to such a telegram. There is a stubbornness I cannot understand. Maybe it is because the Minister has had such a long and tiring df -'. We may have inflicted some of the tiredness on him. But will he reconsider accepting the amendment? If he feels he cannot do so on his own, all he has to do is to consult the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. They can undertake to accept the amendment without calling a full Cabinet meeting or a full party meeting. Surely that is the case, or does he believe that he has to go back to a full party meeting with every small amendment to improve a Bill that is put to him. Of course, that is what he is expecting of ACSPA- he is saying that they should go back and hold a full council meering because their 2 executive officers do not properly represent them. 
What the Minister is saying is that he does not properly represent the Government because he cannot make a decision on this amendment. In my view, he can. By simple arrangement with the Minister he represents, he could normalise the situation and make the position of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, on which this legislation depends, much easier. 
-I had hoped that the contribution to this debate by  Senator Lewis  would have taken more than 10 minutes. If it had perhaps I would have risen at the right time. Nevertheless I follow  Senator Jessop  in this debate and apologise to him if he had to make his contribution to the debate somewhat earlier than he should have. Of course, the Opposition opposes the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill. I make it clear that we do not oppose the National Labour Consultative Council Bill, although we will move to provide some amendments to it. The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill, in my view, is an attempt to reduce the functions of unions. It challenges their ability to promote the interests of workers. When something affects the interests of workers, it must be realised by all peopleincluding members of the Government Partiesthat it affects the interests of the community at large. 
There seems to be a lack of realisation on the part of Government senators that improved conditions of trade unionists in this country lead to improved conditions in the rest of society. Surely they will not deny that the progress and advancement of the union movement in the past century has led to improved conditions for all people, not just for trade unionists. I take it that that is accepted. We hope that in the underdeveloped countries the same procedure and the same process will take place. That may be to our disadvantage in some areas in that we may have to pay more for tea, coffee or other goods produced in those countries. The improvement of working conditions in those countries, as working conditions have improved in our country, will be for the betterment of all society and the world in general. Surely the Government is not denying that. 
Therefore, I warn the Government that it ought not to take any action that disadvantages the unions. It ought not to do anything that restricts the ability of the unions to function. When the Government talks about compulsory unionism, it must realise that the compulsion if for the good of all. It is necessary to accept rules, just as we accept certain rules and abide by them in this place. For instance, we have a rule which says that a quorum consists of 2 1 senators. We have agreed to that and to a variety of other rules in this place. 
If a senator does not abide by the rules, penalties are applied by his own party- and rightly so. 
Penalties are imposed by the party system, which the honourable senator concerned should accept. 
-Senator Walters on many occasions has broken her Party's rules. The acceptance of the party system is to the benefit of society because the party is the watch dog, on behalf of the community, of the behaviour of the honourable senators in this place. That is a most necessary provision. 
The rules which say that there ought to be complete membership of a union on a job are to the advantage of the organisations and their members on that job and also to the advantage of the employer, which means that they are to the advantage of the work of the particular enterprise in which the employer is involved. That might sound a little garrulous; but what I am saying is that, if it is necessary to have compulsory third party insurance when one drives a vehicle in order to protect the whole of the community individually and as a group against any problem or action which might arise, then it is also necessary to have laws within the trade union movement. It is also necessary to have these laws within industry and within commerce, and the honourable senator who is seeking to interject would not deny that. 
I would say that in times of an emergency complete compulsory national service which involves everybody and not just some people may in certain circumstances be necessary to protect the country. 
-You do not need to have it in writing, but it will be in writing tomorrow, if you are prepared to read the  Hansard.  In certain circumstances compulsory national service involving everybody without selectivity is necessary, in the same way as I say it is necessary within the trade union movement to have rules by which all members must abide and out of which certain members cannot opt. What the Government is doing under this legislation- and I am digressing from my notes- is creating a situation of deliberate confrontation. It is placing control over the confrontation in the hands of a statutory body isolated from the Minister and isolated from the Arbitration Commission. This increases the likelihood of confrontation occurring. By this legislation the Government is increasing the need for unions to defend themselves against any punitive action that may be taken. This can be expensive. This leads, if I may say so, to the unions increasing their fees to meet the added costs brought about by confrontation, and the unionists will resist paying increased fees. What the Government is saying, of course, is that unionists now can opt out of their responsibility to pay their fees, although a majority of the membership will pay their fees to protect their rights. If the Government continues with this attitude the financial position of the trade unions will be weakened. If that happens they will become tame cats. 
We finally have before us the legislation that has been reported on the front page of the newspapers over the last few months. It is legislation which this Government and its vested interest supporters and the media are most heartily pushing in the hope of destroying the effectiveness of the Labor movement. That might sound like doctrinaire stuff but that is the reality of the situation. That is exactly what this Government is seeking to do. It is endeavouring to limit the effectiveness of the trade union movement, and so severe is the limitation that it may lead to the destruction of the Labor movement. This would lead to a situation in which the unions would merely respond to the needs of the employers and of the government of the day, and that is not in the best interests of the society. This country's social welfare and living standards were built on the sweat, toil and blood of the working class. May I use the phrase 'working class'? I am not ashamed to use that expression. There is still a working class in this country. 1 must admit that the term covers many more people than it used to, but there is a working class in this community and the people in ii toil rather desperately under the present Government to survive economically. 
I think this Government is doing its very best to crush the movement. In opposition to the Labor movement this Government has taken certain actions, supported by certain of its friends in the Press, to destroy the Labor movement in the Parliament. We had evidence of this in the month of November 1975 when this Senate itself, strengthened by the outcry of certain sections of the Press, took it upon itself to destroy the Labor Government. A view of the conservative Parties, which the Government represents, is that the rightful place of the Labor Puny is in Opposition- merely an irritant that can be ignored. This Government succeeded in destroying the Labor Government in 1975, but it cannot effectively do it to the trade union movement because the movement is in a position to respond. 
-The question of whether or not we had been proved to be incapable in some areas should have been put to the test at the normal election time. We should not have been subjected to the greed of the Opposition at the time to gain power as quickly as possible, and that is exactly what the honourable senator's Party did. If your Party had been patient perhaps the result would have been the same, but it was not content to wait until the normal election. It wanted to use the forms of the Senate- and I said this at the time- to get its own way. I have deviated from the Bill, so I will come back to my point. 
The reasons the Government has given for the professed need for this legislation are that the unions must be answerable to the Government and should not be allowed to take matters into their own hands. Let us look at the background of this matter. This Government has attacked unions continuously in its 18 months in office. It has reduced real wages by advocating partial and plateau indexation and the fall over the last 15 months in wages, according to the consumer price index, has been considerable. There has been a consistent attack on the unions, but the area which is best organised to redress the fall in living standards by demanding better conditions is the trade union movement. I make no apologies for saying this. The trade union movement is in the best position to seek improvements in living standards. Trade unionists are in the first line and they are the first ones to feel the effects of any oppressive or restrictive legislation. They are the first ones to feel a breakdown in the economy. They are the best ones to respond to such a challenge, and through organised unionism they are able to do this. I would say that it would be grossly unfair to make workers take the responsibility for, shall we say, a better disciplined economy. 
I believe this legislation increases the possibility of confrontation. At the present time if an employer feels that he is aggrieved he will make out his case to the Arbitration Inspectorate, and I believe that the Inspectorate is associated with the Commission. The employer will take the initiative and say: 'I have a complaint'. The Inspectorate will not take upon itself authority to proceed. I do not doubt that it will consult with the Commission. It may consult, through the Commission, with the Government of the day before it takes any action. 
Let me put it to the Senate also that the employer, who is concerned with the continuity of production, seeks to avoid confrontation. He will do his best to ensure that the just requests of his workers are met. This Government says this may be to the disadvantage of the economy, but the employer is the best judge of the needs of his workers and he is the best judge of their performance, and possibly he will agree to making an over-award payment when such a request was made. What this Government is endeavouring to do is to force the employer not to pay according to what he judges is best. In my view the employer has always taken a responsible attitude in order to avoid interruption to continuity of production. He does not want to see his workshop stop. He does not want to see a lengthy argument with his workers unless the claims are completely unjust. Normally they are not. When they put forward a log of claim, they put some extravagant canvas to those claims in order to have some sort of area in which they can bargain. That is the general idea. When one sees in the papers a claim by some union which has asked for some extravagant improvement in conditions, they are merely the terms on which the union intends to bargain, perhaps over a period of years. They come back to some reasonable agreement in negotiations with the employer. 
The tendency in this country is to go more to conciliation than to confrontation. What this Government is doing is taking us to a position of confrontation. I believe it is doing this for political ends. Perhaps even now it is starting to realise that those ends might not be able to be achieved. The employer does not want confrontation. The union leaders do not want confrontation. This legislation is going to separate, by way of a statutory authority, the powers that were within the Commission. It will put those powers in the hands of a bureau, away from the influence of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, so that he can disclaim all responsibility for what happens. The power will be taken away from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and, so, will become an embarrassment to the Commission. The Government intends to place unlimited powers to initiate in the hands of the Bureau. This will lead to a confrontation initiated by a separate authority, not the employer or the employee, but the Bureau, which may seek to carry out the political ends of the government in power. 
This is a dangerous creation and for this reason the Opposition opposes this legislation. This is why the Opposition may be in conflict with the industrial movement at the present time because the Opposition believes that the industrial movement has not been told the complete truth about the Industrial Relations Bureau. The industrial movement does not realise that it will be a separate statutory body which will carry out and supervise the powers of the existing legislation. The penalties within the existing legislation are draconic enough without any of the powers which the Government had proposed and subsequently withdrawn. The existing powers are sufficient to cause confrontation after confrontation within the industrial movement. I say to the Government that this legislation will put the initiative in the hands of the irresponsible minority, both in the trade union movement and in the employers' associations. That irresponsible minority has an ideology based on confrontation and has a hatred of the trade union movement and those whom the trade union movement represents. This is what I fear the legislation will do by the creation of the Industrial Relations Bureau with the conditions that are laid down in this Bill. 
The results of some gallup polls and some opinion polls have been trotted out. I refer to another poll, in answer to the Morgan Poll that was mentioned by  Senator Jessop  and, I think, by another senator previously. 
It may have been  Senator Lewis  or it may have been  Senator Scott  from New South Wales. I suppose that we can quote from our polls and honourable senators on the other side of the chamber can quote from their polls. I would draw the attention of honourable senators to an Australian National University poll commissioned to the Roy Morgan Research Centre and published on page 35 of the  Bulletin  of 12 June 1976. 1 may seek leave to incorporate this data. It shows that in a poll taken concerning legitimate union activities, the union's right to negotiate for better conditions received the support of 90 per cent of all people; of 95 per cent of union members; of 89 per cent of non-unionists; of 93 per cent of Australian Labor Party voters and of 89 per cent of Liberal-National Country Party voters. The right to negotiate for higher wages received the support of 77 per cent of all people; of 85 per cent of union members; of 74 per cent of non-unionists; of 82 per cent of ALP voters and of 72 per cent of Liberal-National Country Party voters. With regard to unions trying to improve education, which is something outside the normal rights and conditions which the Government tries to impose on unions, 61 per cent of all people felt that the unions ha ve the right to try to improve education. It also received the support of 67 per cent of union members; of 59 per cent of non-unionists; of 72 per cent of ALP voters and of 52 per cent of LiberalNational Country Party voters. With regard to unions seeking higher pensions, something which, again, is outside normal union activities, this received the support of 61 per cent of all people; 71 per cent of union members; 57 per cent of non-unionists and 76 per cent of ALP voters. The percentage of Liberal-National Country Party voters on this occasion dropped to 49 percent. 
To me this poll seems to indicate a recognition that unionists are not a class that can be separated from the rest of society. They are an integral part of society and they have rights. Just as the employer has the right to close down his production line and say: 'I do not wish to produce for another 12 months; I feel it is not in my interests to produce for another 12 months', so the employees have a right also to refuse to offer their labour. The employees also have a right, as a part of society, to make a decision on the issues which confront society. The environment is a part of their lives, just as being a part of society is a part of their lives. They have a right to take a position as employees, as members of the trade union movement, against anything that may affect the quality of life for themselves, for their children and for future generations. No one should deny to a trade union the right to take part in what is supposed to be a political strike. Trade unions have an essential right, as an association, to participate and to put a point of view and, if necessary, to take action. 
Does any honourable senator here deny the right of trade unionists to refuse to man the oil rigs on the Great Barrier Reef? They refuse to man the oil rigs or to supply any services to them and their stand was acclaimed throughout the country because it stopped oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. Unionists had a right to take that stand. Unionists, whether they are right or wrong on a particular issue, still have the right to take a stand and to withdraw their labour. Surely no one would accept that a trade unionist will apply his effort and his labour to a cause which he considers not to be in his best interests and which, in his judgment, is against the best interests of the nation. I do not agree with any proposition which will give support to any limitation upon the trade union movement to take responsible action in protection of its own conditions, the conditions of families and the conditions of future generations. Anyone who takes that view is, I think, taking a short term view. 
By and large, the trade union movement, with the exception of a small, irresponsible group, is a responsible movement and does nothing which will disadvantage its members in the long term. Sometimes those actions may appear to be a disadvantage in the short term but in the long term the movement will do nothing to disadvantage its members. As I have said before, confrontation should be avoided; provocation should be avoided and exclusion should be avoided. I remember the many months that the Mount Isa miners were kept out on the grass. It became obvious in the last months of that dispute that it would be to the advantage of Mt Isa Mines and its overseas associates to keep that mine closed. That was a confrontation which the employer wanted but to us at the time it appeared as if the employees were responsible. It was made to appear so. 
I put it to the Government that it should carefully view this legislation and take into consideration what I am saying. This Bureau should not be separated, as a statutory authority, from ministerial control or away from the influence of the Commission. If the Bureau were to be taking the place of the Inspectorate under the present conditions of the Inspectorate I would have no complaint and I do not think the Labor Party would have any complaint. But it seems to me that that is not to be the case. We are injecting into the industrial area a provocateur of immense power. The person who becomes the leader of this Bureau and implements the penalties which exist in the Act will become the most powerful man in this country. He will be able to bring the production of our country to a standstill. He will be able to do so on his own authority without consultation with the Commission and without any influence by the Minister of the Government of the day. What is the Government intending to do? Surely what the Government is doing is not what it wishes to do. 
Surely the Government does not want to see, in the present difficulties which the economy faces, continual and aggravated confrontation. The Government can be certain that the unions will adapt themselves to this confrontation, will protect themselves against the penalties and will protect themselves against the increased expenses. They will find the means. Some may suffer, individuals may suffer, but eventually the Government will find that the legislation it proposes here will be unworkable. We will go through a period of disruption and despair which, together with the problems that we face structurally in our economy, will lead to further despair. 
There is sufficient unemployment in this country to bring the workers under considerable test. There is so much unemployment in this country that working conditions are being broken down. Too many people are working for too little. I could take  Senator Lajovic  to Darwin and show him some of the migrants, with whom we are both acquainted who work 6 days a week for $150 take home money when their true rate should be $250 a week. They accept these terms because of their great need. The heavy weight of unemployment in the inner surburbs of Melbourne and Sydney is forcing people to break conditions. These conditions which are broken and those conditions which start to deteriorate affect not only the trade unionist; they affect us all. All of us here are affected considerably because our conditions are based upon their conditions. Poverty is catching. Poverty can spread into the middle classes and even to the higher and to the richer classes. 
Let me put this to the Government again: The conditions to which we have become accustomed in this so-called lucky country are based upon the conditions of the ordinary worker. Those conditions should be protected. The real wages of the ordinary person should not be depreciated. That is not the sacrifice that we should ask ofthe workers. The real wages of the workers should be increased. They are the people who will spend every penny that we give to them to maintain themselves and their families. They are the ones who will lead the consumer recovery which the Government is seeking. I say to the Government: Do not destroy those workers' conditions. Do not do anything to limit their bargaining powers. Do not impose upon them the penalty you intend imposing upon them through legislation. Reconsider what you are proposing to do here and make certain that it does not lead to the confrontation that I believe it will lead to which will be to the disadvantage ofthe whole of the community. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources based on the answer which he has just given. Would it not be to the disadvantage of the Parliament if any limitation were to be placed on the asking of questions and the giving of information in response to those questions? 
It may be that  Senator Colston  has applied himself well to seeking information. Is it not a fact that, although these matters may be in the public record, it is difficult for a senator or a member to search through the public record to obtain this information? Is it not the right of senators and members to receive quick responses to questions which they place on the notice paper? If there has been some abuse of this practice- I believe that members have abused this practice- would it not be a better idea to refer the matter to one of the committees for investigation instead of the Minister coming out with a blanket statement on how this alleged abuse should be dealt with? 
If the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  had given that information earlier I should have made some criticism of the lengthy delays and I am certain that  Senator McLaren  would have been prepared to say a few words about it. I noticed that the Minister was looking in the direction of  Senator McLaren.  For that matter, as I am prompted by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate to say, if we had had a copy of the report we might have taken up the matter. At this time in the session we would not have done so at considerable length, of course, but we would have made some comments on it. In case this practice is continued in the Senate today, I want to make the point that we are not recieving either copies of reports or statements associated with those reports at the time the statements are being made. This limits the ability of honourable senators to participate in debate and to make comments which they consider suitable. 
I make the point again that many senators are vitally interested in the Middle East and vitally interested in the opinions that other senators may want to express, especially those of  Senator Wheeldon  and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. It would have been of great assistance to honourable senators if we had had some forward knowledge of the presentation of this very important report and, further, if we had had copies of it. It has been stated that 2 copies were given to the Opposition. I discovered this when I noticed this matter on the notice paper. I asked: Where is the report? Where is the statement? At the present time we are engaged in a debate which is of considerable interest to us all and, as  Senator Wheeldon  has pointed out, it is of considerable interest to the whole of mankind. 
I note what  Senator Bishop  said. The matter is on the notice paper for debate. Eventually we will have a debate. The problem is that the report has been brought down now and it is at this time that some comment on the report ought to be made.  Senator Wheeldon  felt that it was necessary to make some very important comments. It may be that other senators, at the time a report is being presented- not in a later debate as it may take up to 7 or 8 months before it comes back before the Parliament- will wish to make certain comments concerning it.  Mr President,  I put the point to you again that in future, when reports are brought down, there should be sufficient copies of the report available to senators and there should be sufficient time for senators to make a brief comment on the report when it is brought down. 
One of the frustrations about debates in this place is that when important legislation comes before the chamber we cannot devote our full time to listening to the various contributions that are made. I regret that I have not been able to follow this debate today as closely as I would have liked to, because I consider certain sections of the legislation to be very important. In fact, the debate on this legislation should have been- it may still become- as vigorous as the debate which took place on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill, because this Bill affects considerably the trade union movement in Australia. For that reason I would have liked to hear the contributions made earlier in the debate. 
I am interested to hear that  Senator Wright  has some ideas that the vital proposed new section 45D will reinforce and protect strikes rather than disadvantage them. As far as I can see, proposed new section 45D and its implication limit the trade union movement as a whole in effectively improving the conditions of its individual members. It will separate unions and, although it may not have any power and does not intend to have any power over a strike situation within a union, it definitely does have the power to prevent support of strike action in a particular place of employment. That will limit the trade union movement in obtaining those improvements which it desires. 
I am hoping, however, that the legislation will not be as effective as I thought in the first place and that this penalty of one quarter of a million dollars might be large for the purpose of frightening unions from taking any step which they may consider to be in conflict with the trade practices legislation. But it could have the effect that employers- corporations- would take action against unions, not hoping to achieve a decision but hoping to involve a union in a very expensive exercise. It seems to me that this legislation as well as the legislation we debated yesterday is determined to make it financially difficult for unions to operate. 
Let us consider the Trade Practices Amendment Bill as a whole. I hope I will not offend anyone, but my belief is that the Trade Practices Act was conceived by lawyers who have no understanding of the market place. I thought that originally and I believe it now. The Act is largely unworkable, but it has had an effect in the market place which should concern the Senate. I believe that sooner or later the Senate will have to set up an inquiry to see exactly how the Trade Practices Act has affected the market place and the conditions of those people who are in the market place, small businessmen and the persons employed by them in particular. My experience of the Trade Practices Act is that it has downgraded the quality of service and conditions of employment in the market place. This is a serious matter. The quality of service and the quality of goods which are produced is important and ought to be measured to be of some considerable value. 
This legislation places the market place in the hands of irresponsible discounters who not only discount prices but also discount the quality of the goods and the services which should support those goods. In many places and in many big cities rather than services being provided from properly operated premises or, shall we say, properly appointed premises- premises employing people under proper conditions- we are finding a depressed bazaar-type, Eastern-type operation where the discounters sell their goods at the poorest of margins in order to attract a volume of business and to hell with the people who seek to survive by adopting proper standards and ensuring their employees are properly paid. I believe this is to the disadvantage of the whole of our society, and eventually it will be proven to be so. 
If this trade practices legislation does nothing to control corporations I believe its powers will be limited. The Trade Practices Act has depressed the market place in the way I have stated. From a consumer point of view, in the short term the consumer does get his goods at a lower price; but the services he receives in association with those goods are being diminished, as is the quality of those goods. In the long term that constitutes a disadvantage to the consumers. Anyone who wants to get goods at the lowest possible price deserves to get the lowest possible quality, and that is what we are receiving. 
Let me take the distribution of petrol as an illustration. In spite of the trade practices legislation, the major oil companies are in a position to protect themselves. They protect themselves behind their wholesale price. They protect themselves and their margins by pitching the wholesale price of petrol at a certain level. But then they allow their distributors- the people who use their premises and the independents- to be forced into depressed conditions. In other words, they allow the discounter to enter the market place and to seek volume sales on a low margin in order to disadvantage his competitors. The fault is not in the retail margin which the service stations have been applying in the past. Often they have been limited to a 1 5 per cent margin on the goods which they sell, as against as much as a ISO per cent margin on some of the goods which are sold and which are outside the control of the trade practices legislation. In the past they have been faced with an industry which, because of neglect on the part of several governments, has allowed distribution to get completely out of control, with too many people trying to make a profit out of distribution. We have too many chemists, too many garages and too many service outlets which are over-capitalised and each of which is unable to make a profit without overcharging. 
-The honourable senator states that I would make the wrong impact on unemployment. I put it to him that at the present time this trade practices legislation not only is adding significantly to unemployment in the petrol distribution area, but also is breaking down the conditions of the people employed in the industry. I take the garages in Brisbane as an example. There are too many of them and some of them ought to be put out of business, but that is a  different  matter. We need a proper approach to correcting the distortions in that industry. At the present time because of a heavy discounting war in Brisbane and possibly in New South Wales and Victoria, senior men who have worked in the industry for a number of years are being dismissed and juniors are taking their place. 
What is more, in some cases the juniors cannot be afforded and are being dismissed and selfservice is being forced upon the motorist. Certainly we obtain cheaper petrol, but we have to drive up the driveway, put the hose into our cars, service our own vehicles and pump up our car's tyres. We have cheaper petrol but we have it at the expense of the operator of that station and the people who previously were employed there. What I am saying is that what  Senator Steele  Hall claimed my proposition would do is being done already by virtue of this heavy discounting which the Trade Practices Act has facilitated. The Act states that there shall be no minimum price, there shall be no protection of quality of service, there shall be no protection of quality of goods. There must be an approach to our distribution problems in Australia other than this approach. 
To get away from being emotive and to return to the Bill, since we have it and since we find it hard to understand I hope, as I said, that I will be assisted by our legal men in this chamber, who may be able to provide me with some understanding and some comfort. The major grounds upon which my opposition to this Bill and these amendments is based are, firstly, that I believe that proposed new section 45D will provoke a direct confrontation with the trade union movement. It is provocative and it will create industrial turmoil. That is my view of it. I know that the Government has moved away from the position of imposing a $50,000 fine on an individual who is engaged in a so-called secondary boycott, but it has still left a $250,000 penalty. 
I think that these judicial powers about which we are speaking weaken the ability of the Commission to pursue vital lines of prosecution. I am finding it hard to put this case. Perhaps I should not put the case because I take the position that the Act ought to be amended completely or done away with. In any case, there is increased secrecy and confidentiality. There is the abolition of public hearings. There is a reduction of powers to subpoena witnesses and documents. The Commission now has no power to obtain evidence on oath. The Bill takes away the power to enforce witnesses to appear and it ends the Commission's power to enforce answers to questions that may incriminate witnesses. How is the Government going to bring a big corporation to account, especially a trans-national corporation, after limiting the powers of the Commission? I do not know how the Government will do that. It will not succeed. What it will succeed in doing, of course, is ensure that the smaller duties of the Commission will be carried out- for example, it may prevent a notice going up at a service station which says 'Discount cigarettes' or '5c off'. That is illegal and the whole inspectorate will be occupied with petty duties and nothing else. The Government will be able to get at the little man but it will not be able to get at the big man. Mark my words, this is what will happen. A big man does not want to be interfered with in any way. The amendments provide a long list of definitions which can be argued by an alleged offender in order to escape prosecution. These are: If the breach of the Act was due to a mistake; if the breach was due to information supplied by another party or individual; accidental breach; or if the breach occurred but the employer had taken reasonable steps to avoid any breach. These amendments make the task of prosecution, in many cases, almost impossible. It will be difficult to pursue breaches. If the Government accepts that the Commission is a worthwhile commission and that the powers of the Act are worth while-I questioned that- I cannot understand why the Government wants to diminish the powers of the Commission any further. 
I turn now to monopolies. I will not go into the subject of monopolies because I have already expressed my point of view that the Trade Practices Act is limited and the task of the Commission has been made more difficult in controlling exclusive dealings or increased noncompetitive practices. There is a lack of resources to support the Commission. If, as I said, the Act is so confusing and its powers are so ill-defined, of course it needs to have a Commission which is substantially supported with resources. I do not think that the Commission is fully geared at the present time to carry out its powers, such as they are. I merely reiterate to honourable senators that the Trade Practices Act and the work of the Commission have not been satisfactory in achieving what it was intended that they would achieve, that is, the protection of the consumer against monopoly practices and other practices which are to the disadvantage of business. 
Let us examine the situation from the point of view of an ordinary business operator. I should like to add that my business experience is limited to a workers' co-operative in Queensland. It is not a small co-operative any more. It has grown because of the support which workers within the trade union movement have given to it in Queensland. It is a co-operative which now has branches in 5 cities. It is run by a group of directors who receive no compensation for their efforts. The Board endeavours to give a service to members of trade unions. It has grown because of that support and it now has a turnover of more than $3m a year in supplying goods and services. No matter how we may like to reduce the price of an article, and we endeavour to do so, one practice the Opposition resists is a cut price operation- a trade practice which, in the past, was considered unfair but because of this legislation suddenly becomes fair. Trade practices which cut down the quality of the goods which are being supplied and cut down the services and the conditions of employees are quite unfair. I am not talking about unfair profits. I am not talking about the person who buys goods from overseas and puts a 400 per cent mark up on those goods. That is what this legislation should be looking at, but it does not do so. Unfair margins of profit are what I consider a theft against the consumer. 
This Act does not deal with that sort of situation. It endeavours to free the marketplace to allow the forces in the marketplace to take effect. The end result has been a depression in the marketplace. That is the point that I am making. We are going to become like some of the change alleys in places overseas. We already have those. A legitimate enterprise which is paying high rentals for premises in the centre of the city may be undermined completely, unfairly and unjustly by some discounter who runs a barn at Fyshwick. The consumers could line up in their hundreds but eventually, in the long term, it will be to their disadvantage. They will get furniture that may not last 12 months when it should last a person a lifetime. They may get imitation goods which are supposed to represent quality but will not stand up to a push. Cars could be bought which have been produced and sold at over inflated prices, sometimes discounted, but they may not run for 12 months. That is the sort of quality of service we will receive in this country if this sort of legislation is allowed- 
I am perfectly serious about it. No person - 
Goods produced in Hong Kong do not have the same duties and taxes on them as they do in Australia. They are justified in imposing taxes and duties on goods so long as they are at a fair level. But the service which supports those goods in Hong Kong, Singapore and Sri Lanka is based on a person working 18 hours a day in most depressed conditions. I am not saying - 
-The quality of goods is the quality produced in the factories of Japan. Those goods could be of an extremely high quality but the distribution of those goods at a very low mark up depends on the depressed conditions of those engaged in the distribution of those articles. 
I am referring to what could happen if a free market is not protected by certain regulations which control quality and control a minimum price. I suppose the honourable senator would object to a minimum price. I do not know whether at any time he was involved in the poultry industry. That industry became organised, licensed, controlled and protected. I do not know whether the honourable senator has been a sugar farmer, but that industry is controlled from the moment the plant is placed in the ground until the product is sold at a fixed minimum price. That industry has organised marketing and the quality of the product is retained. Admittedly there can be abuses in an industry if there is no control of the profits which are made along the line of distribution. To take regulation out of the pricing system and the distribution system would be to go back to the position the poultry farmer found himself in some few years ago and in which the beef producers at the present time find themselves. They have no sorts of protection for their efforts. 
What I am saying to the Senate is that in this country we need to have some control over the distribution so that the price for a product does not become distorted. 
It is not socialisation. Are you saying that the poultry farmer in Australia is a socialist? Are you saying that? 
If you want a treatise on socialism I will give it to you on the adjournment debate. All that I am talking about at the present time- 
-It would not. It is a simple proposition which those who sit opposite do not understand. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1977 now before the Senate proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff Act 1 966. The Bill puts before honourable senators for their consideration tariff changes since the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 was passed during the Budget sittings last year. In the main the amendments give effect to decisions by the Government with respect to certain reports of the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority. The Opposition does not intend to oppose the Bills. We commend to honourable senators the remarks made by our spokesman in another place. 
The Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) 1977 validates tariff changes which relate to certain reports by the Industries Assistance Commission. The Opposition does not intend to oppose the Bill. Again I commend to honourable senators the remarks made by our spokesman in another place. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister provide details of decisions relating to 6 Thai students who applied for residency status as outlined by the Minister in answer to question No. 1464 on 10 December 1976. 
Have the students been granted residency status. If not, why not. 
Have there been any further applications. If so, how many. 
I am attracted by that recommendation of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which states that the shipbuilding industry should be considered as a defence need. I regard that recommendation as being an admirable one. 

 -Mr President, if I am called suddenly to ask a question, I always bow - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Has the Victorian State Health Department spent $80,000 on fee-for-service dental treatment covering 250-300 Aboriginal patients in the last year. 
Did the Victorian State Health Department receive $60,000 from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and is attempting to recover the rest from the Commonwealth. 
Is the Minister aware that the Aboriginal Dental Service in Victoria received $64,000 and treated over 2000 patients as well as allocating $27,000 for the grant for capital equipment. 
Will the Minister provide assurances of a continuing and increasing Commonwealth assistance to the Aboriginal Dental Services in all States. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
How many arrests of persons of Aboriginal descent have been made in Queensland in each year 1 970-76. 
What are the major charges laid against Aboriginals for each ofthe above years. 
What are the numbers of charges dismissed or not proceeded with. 
How many convictions for each year have been made. 
What sentences have been carried out on average for each ofthe years. 
What is the percentage of total arrests constituted by persons of Aboriginal descent for each ofthe years 1 970-76. 
What is the number of Aboriginal women arrested in each of these years. 
What is the number of Aboriginals under and over 18 years of age arrested. 
What is the total number of persons under and over 1 8 years of age arrested in Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Government ordered an inquiry into the current maintenance and rebuilding programs ofthe Commonwealth Railways, in view of the Granville train disaster. 
What is the number of railway bridges of similar design to the Bold Street Bridge on lines operated by the Commonwealth Railways. 
Is the Government aware of any reports and submissions on safety and maintenance in Commonwealth Railways. If so. what are the findings of such reports. 
Can the Minister provide details of loan repayments for railways made by the States to the Australian Government and other parties in 1975-76 and the projected figure for 1976-77. 
What is the total State debt for railways still outstanding. 
What is the percentage of loan repayments to total State railway expenditure per annum. 
What percentage of this is debts owed to the Australian Government. 
Can the Minister provide details of the following points relating to the Commonwealth Railways: (a) what is the number or derailments from 1970-76, (b) what have been the major causes of the derailments (c) what actions were taken to offset the causes of derailments, (d) how much has been spent per annum on railway maintenance, (e) have there been any cases of near collisions and (f) what were the causes of such near collisions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that in the 3 May 1 977 edition of the  Indonesian Newsletter  it is claimed that  Mr Jim  Dunn was 'expelled from Dili after a car crash in which an East Timorese died'. 
In view of the serious nature of this allegation against  Mr Dunn,  can the Minister outline what action the Government has taken to put the record straight. 
Has the Government requested the Indonesians to publish a retraction in their publication. 
Will the Government circulate all embassies and high commissions in Australia pointing out the untruth of this serious allegation against the character of an Australian citizen. 
As this allegation was made in Washington, will the Government inform the Congressional sub-committees which heard  Mr Dunn's  testimony that this allegation against a former Australian diplomat is untrue and deeply malicious. 
-I enter the debate in order to allow for some future discussion of this report. In doing so I make a criticism. It may have been my error in not understanding properly what was said but I was under the impression that this report was to be presented tomorrow and not today. For that reason no arrangements were made on this side of the House to engage in debate on what is a very important report from one of our committees. There is no doubt that the Committee has investigated an important and developing industry which is coming under considerable pressure from other sources and perhaps not receiving fair consideration in the market place. For that reason I seek leave to continue my remarks in order to allow other senators to enter into the debate at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I would like to support the condolence motion. It is my belief that Archbishop Makarios would have wished that any tribute to him would be a tribute to the Cypriot people. I take it that the Senate views this condolence motion in that way. Archbishop Makarios was a leader, as he has been described by both the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt),  well respected and of good repute. He led the people of Cyprus in times of great trouble. At his death the people of Cyprus were still in trouble. Cyprus is an example of a small nation seeking to be independent, seeking to be free, without the interference of foreign nations. It was the interference of foreign nations that Archbishop Makarios resisted for so long. 
It is my belief that what he stood for will be remembered. I think that the solving of the problems of Cyprus will be facilitated by the memory which will rest with the Cypriot people and the Turkish people. The solution to their problems will be assisted by his memory. I believe that in a short period reason will prevail across the boundaries of race and religion and that independence, full freedom and peace will come back to the Cypriot people. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
-My question, which is also directed to the Minister for Education, follows from the previous question and the answer that has just been given. Will the Minister take into consideration, when announcing such an inquiry, the possibility that AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd, given the co-operation of both the Government and the airlines, particularly Qantas Airways Ltd, could trade themselves out of this difficulty? Will he take into consideration the fact that his answer in the terms used to the question just asked could worsen the situation rather than assist it? Will he take into consideration the fact that there may have been some errors in audit and accountancy which may have led to some commercial judgments being made which were incorrect? Will he take into account that it is possible to correct such errors of judgment and such decisions? Will he take carefully into consideration the possibility not only that the students affected can be assisted but also that the agency itself can be assisted? Will he recognise also the tremendous assistance which this agency has given to students in travelling backwards and forwards overseas? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
How much uranium has been exported from Mary Kathleen since the Government decision to proceed with uranium contracts was made. 
In fulfilling the contracts has any uranium ore been exported from other sources. 
Were other forms of transport excluding railways used; if so, what form of transport and on what dates. 
What ports were used for the export destination and upon what dates were the ships loaded. 
What was the destination of the uranium, and in each case what was the amount sent. 
If stockpiling arrangements and mining at Mary Kathleen do not meet the full requirements of the existing contracts, what alternative sources, other than those subject to the Fox Inquiry, are being considered to fulfil the contracts. 
-by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Let me say in fairness to the officers of the Senate that  Senator Harradine  did not know the procedure. When a question is handed to an attendant it merely goes to  Hansard  to assist in the recording of the question. 
-Correct. If he did not give the question to the officers and state that it was a question on notice it would not go on the Notice Paper. It is not the fault of the officers of the Senate. I think  Senator Harradine  was not clearly aware of the need to advise the attendant that the question was to go on the Notice Paper. He has been here long enough to know that that is so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.9 p.m. 
The Government will regret the day it brought down this Budget. It is fairly obvious that the enthusiasm of last night has dimmed somewhat today. It was fairly evident at question time that the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  who represents the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in this place could not answer questions concerning the Budget nor could the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  who was questioned subsequently. In fact the speech of the Leader of the Government today indicates that he is unable to present the case in support of the Government's Budget proposals and particularly the Budget proposals which endeavour to do something about unemployment. The Treasurer admitted a few minutes ago before the National Press Club that the figures in the Budget are somewhat rubbery. Indeed, they are very rubbery. The whole of the Budget propositions are rubbery. They will get the results that the Government deserves. Our point is that the electorate does not deserve the consequences of this Budget. 
Nothing positive has been done in this Budget which will relieve the problems of the unemployed in this country. I agree with one thing and one thing only which was presented last night. Unemployment is now very much a social and human problem. The Budget which was delivered last night inhumanly neglects the growing problem of unemployment. In fact it is discriminatory. Let me give an example. It places $3,500 in the pocket of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  through taxation changes but offers nothing for the increasing number of Australians who are unemployed. This is the point we are making today. The urgency motion today has been moved to highlight immediately what the Budget proposes. As far as the unemployed are concerned- that is the matter we are debatingwe are dealing with an inhuman Budget. No job creation schemes are contained in the Budget. There are no real incentives to companies to employ. There are no public works schemes. I repeat: There are no public works schemes. The emphasis is on stimulating the private sector, placing the whole onus for the recovery of our economy on the private sector and neglecting the fact that we are a mixed economy and that the private sector has to be assisted and stimulated by expenditure in public areas. That is what the Government is neglecting. Upon that philosophy it will fail. Every action taken based upon that philosophy will lead to failure. 
If this were just a matter of statistics we would not worry so much. It is a matter of consequence and a matter of humanity. Many thousands of Australians are unemployed and will continue to be unemployed. Their numbers will increase. The Government must accept responsibility. It must not rest upon the Budget that it presented last night. The Budget ignores the viable propositions put forward last week by the Australian Labor Party for major spending on programs to create work. Instead it offers only a paltry $23m extra on training schemes. This is a drop in the ocean compared with what is required to get people back to work. Rather, this Government proposes a continued decline in employment. That is deliberate.  Senator Scott  said that we accused the Government of discrimination against the unemployed. He said, in effect, that this was a deliberate charge against the Government. We put it differently. By its attempts to bring inflation under control and reduce the real value of wages by using the unemployed, the Government is discriminating against the unemployed. The Government's use of the unemployed to recover the economic situation is in my mind discriminatory and, again I use the word, inhuman. 
The Government proposes a continued decline in employment. Under this restrictive Budget it is certain that more than 400 000 Australians will be unemployed early in 1 978. That is the continuing trend. Figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics for 1976 show that 12 per cent of the work force was unemployed at some point during the year. That makes the situation even worse. Twelve per cent of the work force throughout the country will be affected by unemployment. Forget about the 5 per cent and the 5.5 per cent; look at the real figure. Twelve per cent of Australians will be affected by unemployment in a single year; that is 700 000 families in Australia will be touched by the tragedy of unemployment. We must face up to that situation. That is why we say that the matter is urgent. That is the reason for the urgency debate. Let me make the gentle comment in passing, without being overly insulting, that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who is responsible for much of what has to be done in the area of unemployment, should be speaking in this debate. Unfortunately she is not present. The Leader of the Government in the Senate has taken up the defence, possibly on her behalf. I believe that she deserved a better defence than she was given this afternoon. 
The Ministers have shown today that they are incapable of understanding the Budget. I can understand why they do not understand our proposition. The community knows exactly what we are talking about and that the matter is extremely urgent. The Budget certainly will push up the percentage of unemployed in 1977-78, thus increasing the community's insecurity and despair. It is ironic that, with unemployment reaching a total of 337 391 persons in July 1977, this Government prefers to ignore the problem or, should I put it more kindly, substantially to ignore the problem. This amounts to the greatest denial of government responsibility in my experience. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  when releasing the July unemployment figures, said: 
There was no clearly evident trend in the labour market during July. 
What a denial of fact that is. What a cover-up of an escalating emergency in the community. When unemployment increases by 4598 in July he can say only that there was no clearly evident trend. I believe that that is a cover-up. It is a cover-up by the Government and an evasion by the Government of its responsibility. Unemployment has deepened and is increasing at a greater rate in Australia than in any other comparable country. I heard the figures quoted by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, but he did not go right down the list to include the Scandinavian countries. By comparison, unemployment is increasing at a greater rate in this country than it any other country. Whilst the recession deepens the Treasurer says- I use his wordsthat a slower volume of growth is necessary. The plight of the unemployed is sidestepped. 
Handouts for the oil companies and to persons with above average weekly earnings were evident last night. I declare that the priorities of this Government are quite wrong. Unemployment is chronic and must be tackled by any government that is concerned with the plight of its people. Let me take the case of Queensland to show that the situation is chronic. The problem faces not only Queensland but also the rest of Australia. In July 1977 unemployment in Queensland reached 49 8 1 7 people or 5.64 per cent of the work force. This is above the national average of 5.44 per cent. This is an increase since June 1977 of 1237 persons. In June 1976, 38 586 persons were registered as unemployed, which was 4.5 per cent of the work force. So one can see the increase. In the period June to July 1976 there was a drop in the level of unemployment in Queensland. I think the message is clear. Unemployment in real terms is on the increase. It is certain that in January and February 1978 it will exceed the post-war record which was established by this Government in the same period this year. So Queenslanders can be apprehensive. 
Let me give an indication of how bad things are in Queensland. At the principal employment office in Brisbane 981 people were registered as unemployed, at Alderley 609, at Annerley 1503, at Brisbane 1633, at Chermside 1282, at Fortitude Valley 2388, at Inala 1244, at Indooroopilly 817, at Mount Gravatt 1537, at Nundah 1419, at Redcliffe 1070, at West End 1043, at Woodridge 990, at Woolloongabba 2994 and at Wynnum 1744. The metropolitan total was 21 254. Unfilled vacancies numbered 802- one vacancy for every 30 people unemployed. The Leader of the Government tells me, or endeavours to tell me, that the matter is not urgent. Consider also that the greatest number of unemployed are young people. I would like to say a word of commendation about the Community Youth Support scheme. I speak in support of those people who are working on a very miserable budget and endeavouring to provide some comfort and assistance to young people in Brisbane, at a variety of centres. To this point they have been undersupported financially but have provided community centres in the various suburbs to allow young people to escape from their despair. I give great credit to the people who run these community centres. The young social workers attached to these community centres deserve our commendation. The Government should proceed to support these centres but should realise fully that they do not help the unemployed in finding jobs. They merely assist these young people to get into communication with people in the same position as themselves. 
I refer to another support scheme which the Government has introduced but which, to my mind, is a complete failure and is providing cheap labour to failing industries. That is all it does. There is very little training component in a scheme which subsidises an employer to the extent of $60 to employ a young person. What has happened and what was bound to happen is that employers, some of necessity, have abused the scheme. There is very little training in the scheme itself. The abuse is widespread. Even in the country areas, which the National Country Party represents, there is a misuse of the scheme. Young people are taken on under this scheme as jilleroos and in other rural occupations, and they are receiving no training at all. In one case which has come to my attention a person sent out under the training scheme acted as a housekeeper and saddled a horse on only two occasions in three months. That is the abuse of the scheme, and it is widespread. The Government should have a good look at the scheme because all it does is institutionalise short term employment- dead end jobs. It has the opposite effect to that intended. It is demoralising to the young person who is employed under those conditions and who knows that the employer pays only $11 towards his keep. At the end of 6 months he is bound to find himself on the scrap heap. The Government should look at the scheme again and not boast about the $50,000 - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonnor)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
The statement is a crucial one at which the Opposition will be looking carefully. No doubt we will be given the opportunity to debate the subject matter. The consequences which flow from the statement and the decision of the. Government are serious. One would question the wisdom of introducing such measures at this stage. As a Queenslander, I view with alarm the cost increases which will flow from the decision. I do not share the confidence of the Government 's spokesman that this decision will not be inflationary. It seems that the cost of petrol to the consumer will be raised considerably. In the rural and provincial areas of Queensland the cost is likely to be prohibitive. We understand the need to protect our reserves. We also understand the need at this stage to keep costs low. We accept the proposition that the Government has been putting from time to time about the need to cut back the rate of inflation. I believe that the Government should have looked at the dislocation in the distribution industry throughout Australia before it implemented this policy. It would have been necessary to look at the report of the royal commission on the petroleum industry and to apply its recommendations in order to prevent the grave dislocations which have affected the costs of many people in the industry and which will eventually affect the cost to the consumer. 
I thought the Government would have discussed with the oil producers the increases in profits before it brought down this proposition. It appears to me that the oil producers will take advantage of windfall profits and will resist strongly any measures by the Government which will lessen these windfall profits and which will make them pass back some of these profits to the nation. It was with concern that I read that the Government had not taken into consideration beforehand the windfall profits which would flow and had not taken the necessary measures, together with the other policy decisions, to control those windfall profits. We must realise that the Esso company, which is in control of the Bass Strait fields, has made considerable profits to date. I believe that the figure which was transferred to the parent company overseas was about $130m. 
-What you say in support of your philosophy that the oil produced is the property of Esso and not the property of the nation. 
-Perhaps that is correct. Let us say that it was a fair profit from the exploitation of the Bass Strait fields; Esso made a fair profit. I would say that any increase in the price of local oil to bring it to world parity must be made in such a way that windfall profits flow back to the nation and not to overseas investors in large sums. I think the Government intends this. That appears to be the intention in the statement. I think the United States took a substantial share of the windfall profits which flowed from an increase in the price of Middle East oil. I am suggesting that this should hold here. In any case, I have said more than I wish to say at this stage. The Opposition seeks to debate this paper. In order to facilitate that, I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. May I now ask him the question which I asked previously by interjection? What is going on? How can we here be expected to gloss over the situation which he revealed this morning, especially since the Treasurer has stated publicly that the figures in the Budget are rubbery? That is a statement that needs explanation. I ask the Minister: In view of the figures that he gave us this morning, can he explain how those figures are arrived at and what are the assumptions about wage rates, employment and money wages payable, which form the basis of the calculation? I understand that the Minister has already stated that he will give that information when possible, but does he accept that it is not reasonable for the Senate to be placed in this situation? If necessary will he make arrangements to have Treasury advisers with him in anticipation of questions being asked from this side of the chamber? 
-The announcement which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has made is an important one. It is not quite unexpected since we received information that so-called urgent legislation was required. Of course debate has taken place in the other House. Since the proposition that the Leader of the Government puts to us is so important I think this place deserves a quorum, so I attract your attention,  Mr President,  to the state of the House before we proceed.  (Quorum formed.)  Let me inform those who are present of the important nature of the proposition which the Leader of the Government puts. At great inconvenience to us all and for a specious reason we are to meet tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. and proceed through to about 5 p.m. I think all senators are aware of the dislocation that that has caused not only to their own programs but also to the officers of this Parliament and to those who serve the Senate. For that reason I take very strong objection to what is being done. 
If the legislation is of such an important nature it should not be brought forward in this way. There is sufficient time for the other place to discuss the legislation. If it wants to proceed through a series of guillotines to bring the legislation to this place, well and good; that is its problem. We should be given the consideration of receiving legislation in the proper way. We cannot possibly in the circumstances deal with the legislation in a rational way. Tempers tomorrow will be frayed; they ought to be frayed. I would say - 
-I will catch your interjection,  Senator, if  you speak up. 
I have a temper, yes, and I lose it from time to time. 
The honourable senator is not being nice to me. I have a temper and I use it at times for a particular reason. If you have not eloquence you become emotive. If you are emotive you need to have adrenalin, a temper. If you confuse the argument by so doing of course it is a consequence you have to suffer. Let me get back to the point. Honourable senators opposite have endeavoured to divert me from the proposition that I am putting. The Government has come forward in a most irrational and inconsiderate way to present legislation. From what I hear of it, it is very important legislation. It is draconian legislation. 
-I do not know whether it is to be proclaimed or not, but to me the very thought of this legislation is horrific. That is the only way one can describe the legislation which the Government is endeavouring to bring forth. 
The economy has suffered one or two jolts. One was the refusal of Supply and the sudden dismissal of an elected government. Now this Government, having failed in its program, having failed in its promises, and seeing its economic strategy in tatters, seeks a series of confrontations with the trade union movement. The economy will suffer. There are certain structural problems within the economy and the economy cannot withstand another assault of the type that the Government is planning. I would have thought that if the Government's advisers and the Executive suggest that this legislation should be brought forward and if Government supporters decide to support their Executive, really the Government should permit Parliament to debate it at length. It ought to allow for consultation with those who are to be most affected. Apparently that will not be the case. 
The Government is rapidly reaching a point where it will have to call out the troops. I heard a remark to that effect in the corridor this morning. It was not one of my colleagues who said it; it was one of  Senator Withers'  colleagues. At the time I wondered what he was talking about when he used the words 'call out the troops'. I now know what he meant, and I do not doubt that that is the intention of the Government. I say to the Government that it ought to reflect. We do not seek to stir the electorate in such a way as the Government intends in order to gain a cheap electoral advantage. It will not gain such advantage. The economy is in a serious position, and the Government has admitted it. It will put the economy in a more serious position than it is already in by using tactics that some of the more radical, irrational Government supporters are proposing and supporting. It would be far better if the Leader of the Government in the Senate were to reconsider what he is proposing, withdraw the motion that he has put before us and proceed with the ordinary program next Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. I cannot appeal to him because he does not respond too easily to an appeal of this sort, but common sense should prevail.  Mr President,  in some way I believe that at times common sense does prevail in this place. 
I direct my question to  Senator Cotton  representing the Treasurer. I appreciate the amount of effort he has gone to to answer questions that the Treasurer should be answering directly. I remind him, however, that the Treasurer's movement from point to point has added to the confusion which he shares, as is revealed by his answers in this place. My question is: Has the Government decided to argue before the next hearing of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that the effect of oil price increases as a result of the Government's Budget decision should not be passed on to wage and salary earners under wage indexation? Does the Minister not agree that such a proposal would lead to a further decline in real wages, thus further diminishing consumer demand? What is the justification for the decision? 
There is some question about the last remark made by  Senator Knight  as to whether the International Fund for Agricultural Development Bill is a step towards a new economic order. I doubt whether the Third World accepts it as such. It is closer to the Kissinger plan and I think the Third World has rejected that Kissinger's plan is a step towards a new social economic order. I will speak in shorthand if I may because the areas covered by the two Bills have already been covered by previous speakers. The International Development Association is a lending institution which has provided SUS12 billion in low interest loans since 1960. This is the fifth replenishment of the Fund since 1960 and contains a large contribution from three major member countries of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, as  Senator Knight  indicated. Those countries should be named. They are Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. Australia's share is $ 133.7m, or 2.04 per cent of the target sought. The contribution will not be made until the United States passes through Congress legislation for the payment of its portion. Although the loans are interest free, the IDA applies some very stringent conditions to them. It is those conditions which ought to be examined because their very stringency can impose acceptance of the terms of the lender to the disadvantage of the borrower. 
The International Fund for Agricultural Development Bill 1977 came out of the Rome 
World Food Conference in 1 974. An amount of one billion United States dollars was raised. Australia signed the agreement and initiated the proposition. The agreement was signed on 30 March 1977. It is the financing institution for agricultural development, and Australia's share over the next 3 years is expected to be $8m. But what ought to be pointed out is that in Appropriation Bill No. 1, Budget Paper No. 2, there is no appropriation for 1 977-78. To save me from raising this matter in the Committee stage, perhaps the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  could explain why no provision appears to have been made in the Appropriation Bill. Further, in 1976-77, there was an appropriation of Sim yet there was no expenditure. Perhaps the Minister could explain the two matters: Firstly, there does not seem to be an appropriation in the present Budget and, secondly, in 1976-77 there was an appropriation of Sim yet apparently there was no expenditure. So the good intentions may not have been followed through. 
I want to make a number of brief points on the policy of the loans. There seems to be some misplaced good intention here which is not followed or supported by the real facts. The total private and public debts to the developing countries amounted to an accumulation of SUS150 billion. The trade deficits per annum of those countries are SUS35 billion yet aid totals only SUS15.2 billion per annum. So one can see that there is a substantial shortfall. In fact one could say that it is a massive increasing shortfall between the accumulating debts and trade deficits of the developing countries and the amount of aid which is provided. Further, for the 86 poor developing countries, the debt servicing payments in October 1976 amounted to SUS2.1 billion below the aid received. So for this reason in 1 976 the poor countries asked for a debt conference for the purpose of a moratorium on debts. This request was rejected. This is a matter of concern to me because it seems to me that in spite of all we are endeavouring to do to assist the developing countries, their position is becoming worse, not better. If the countries sought a conference in order to achieve a moratorium on their debts, then that conference at least should have been agreed to so that this grave matter could be considered. 
I indicated that I am concerned about the strains which are placed upon these economies to meet their payments. I make this point too: The lending countries could be in difficulties if there happened to be default. The actual level of aid provided by industrialised countries, is, to say the least, abysmal, lt is even worse if one considers that the grant of aid alone. Only three countries- Sweden, Norway and Holland- have reached or passed the official development assistance target of 0.7 per cent of the gross domestic product which was supposed to be reached by 1980. The rest are well behind, with the United States 0.25 per cent, the Federal Republic of Germany 0.37 per cent and Japan 0.25 per cent. I must admit that all these figures are 1974 figures- that is, 3 years ago- but I believe the lag still exists. Now what concerns me and what should concern the Senate is that Australia's aid allocation is  Deteriorating  in terms of the gross domestic product. In the last year of the Labor Government, the Hayden Budget proposed a level of 0.6 per cent of the gross domestic product to be spent on aid. The present Government has eroded that figure to 0.47 per cent of the gross domestic product. This is the level which is contained in the 1977-78 Budget. 
Instead of moving towards the 0.7 per cent target, Australia is going backward. Although the Government still professes its determination to reach the target in fact we are going backward and not forward. It argues that the present economic position does not allow for increased aid but surely this is a specious argument because comparable countries which are increasing their aid suffer the same problems as Australia. My view is that the trend must be arrested. We should not listen to remarks made by people such as the Premier of Queensland,  Mr BjelkePetersen.  He made some very retrogressive remarks about aid. He said that we should be looking after our own first and the devil take the poor to the north and the countries that surround us. There would be very few senators on the opposite side who would agree with the Premier of Queensland. In fact he was denied by the national leader of his own party,  Mr Anthony,  and so he should have been. 
I wish to finish my remarks on perhaps a little more positive note. Whilst the problems of poverty, starvation and disease, are immense, the developing countries have suggested programs which go a long way towards redressing the imbalance between the rich and poor countries. The integrated commodities program and the Common Fund are the most important of these initiatives. The integrated commodities program covers 18 major raw material commodities. It must be remembered that raw materials account for 80 per cent of the total revenue of the Third World countries. Unfortunately, price fluctuations create havoc for the Third World countries and diminish their ability to plan development programs. The concept of a common fund to establish and finance buffer stocks to cover the 18 raw material commodities is considered by the Third World countries to be of critical importance to their economies. My view is that these two schemes are the correct ones to be considering if we are considering a new economic order. It is proposed that a fund of $US6 billion be created to finance such a buffer against price fluctuation. These two interlinked proposals must be supported if we are to have a commonsense process and an equitable distribution of wealth. I believe that Australia should give active support to the proposal. Unfortunately there are many reports overseas that Australia has been less than enthusiastic about the proposal. Finally, I suggest that the Australian Government should not oppose but should give support to these proposals which will lead, I believe, to a new international economic order. 
I take advantage of the presence of both the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  to raise a case concerning an unemployed person who, for some reason, was advised to apply for an invalid pension and was told that if he refused to take the invalid pension he would not be eligible for unemployment benefit. As a result of that, the lad came to see me and quite angrily said: 'I do not want to go on to an invalid pension. I want to work. I am registered for work and I see no reason why I should be declared an invalid'. The only advice that I could give to him was that he should proceed to apply for the invalid pension and he should insist upon a review. I ask the Minister whether it is becoming a practice within her own Department to place these people who have been unemployed for some time under some medical scrutiny and whether the giving of the advice given to this person is a growing practice. It is rather souldestroying to be told when you are seeking work that there is no work available. But the Department is saying worse than that to this lad. It is saying to him: 'You are an invalid. You are not capable of working. We are prepared to give you an invalid pension'. Perhaps it was an humane act on the pan of someone making the judgment. 
Is this an endeavour by the Department to lower the number of those people who have been unemployed for some months? If it is it will not lessen the economic support which has to be given because I suppose the invalid pension is about the same as the unemployment benefit. The placing of young people on an invalid pension decreases the number of young people on the unemployment benefit. However, I would say that the consequences of such an act are souldestroying, as I have said previously. In this case the person was very dispirited and he fought against the decision of the Department. To my mind he did not appear to be a person who could be termed an invalid, and that mark should not have been put on him possibly for the rest of his employable life. 
I direct a question in simple terms to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Government made a decision to argue before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that the increases in the consumer price index due to oil price increases be deleted from any wage determinations? If so, does the Minister agree that such a decision is of fundamental importance to all consumers and that they should be informed of it? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. So that I will not be accused of making an assumption, I  remind the Minister that in the Budget Speech the Treasurer said, in relation to the new tax proposals: 
The biggest proportional gainers are those on the lower incomes at the bottom of the scale. 
I ask: Is the Minister aware of the calculations produced by  Mr Risstrom,  Secretary of the Australian Taxpayers Association, which show that more than two million taxpayers whose income is between $4,800 and $7,400 will pay more tax in 1978-79? Does not this assessment- I remind the Minister that it is not an assumptioncontradict the Treasurer's statement and, in fact, contradict his own answer previously given in the Senate? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
This is an important statement which involves the responsibilities and powers of the Joint House Committee. We may not have properly understood the powers of that Committee. For that reason, I think it is necessary to have the opportunity to debate the statement. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. I refer to the following statement made by the Treasurer in the Budget: 
The Government believes that not all the additional profits resulting from these decisions should remain with the producers and that the community should obtain a return from the exploitation of these resources which adequately reflects their value. 
We are talking about the  oil resources. If  that is the case, the three main oil producers will earn an extra $ 1 50m- this is not an assumption, it is a calculation- in windfall profits in 1977-78 from the Government's decision. In view of the Treasurer's statement, what steps is the Government taking to ensure that the community obtains a return from the windfall profits? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I remind the Minister that there are many youngsters now at school who are in their last school vacation and that the problem that we faced last year and asked so many questions about is likely to arise again. In view of the recent High Court decision on school leavers and the fact that there is now a new Director-General in the Department of Social Security, will the Minister publish guidelines to assist school leavers to be registered promptly so as to ensure that if necessary- I underline the words 'if necessary'- they will receive immediately the unemployment benefit according to the conditions laid down for each member of the community who is seeking work? 

 -Mr President, I direct a question to you. Why was it necessary on Monday of this week for members of the armed forces to inspect the precincts of this Parliament? Was the visit with your knowledge and could we have a statement from you concerning this inspection? 

 -Mr President, I am certainly making a day of it today in asking questions, but you would understand that most Opposition members and some Government senators are at Rex Connor's funeral today. For that reason those of us who are here take advantage of the time to ask several questions to improve our record in this place. I ask a question of the Minister for Administrative Services. I take it that the electoral redistributions in all States have been completed. Can the Minister advise the Senate what the next procedures are and how long they will take? Will the Government be able to keep to its program of calling an election on 1 0 December this year? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government, who today is representing the Minister for Science. I do not doubt that his answer will be much shorter than the answers we normally receive from the Minister for Science. I preface my question by reminding the Leader of the many and continued promises by his Government that it would greatly increase the budget for energy research and development in Australia. Is it true that the Solar Energy Research Unit of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has received only an additional- the figure is so small 1 will have to look at it again- $1 12,839 this financial year? The figure is not even in the millions of dollars; it is well down in the hundreds of thousands of dollars. Does the Minister not agree that this sum is only a pittance and will do nothing to stimulate solar energy research? Is the suggestion true that the Australian National University is likely to receive and accept money from an Arab source- a questionable source, we have been reminded- to carry out its solar energy research? 
-The Opposition is not opposing these Bills but I just want to make one or two comments concerning them. The Bills give effect to the Budget policy which provides for an increase in Australian crude oil prices. The increases appear to be insignificant. Perhaps they are insignificant. The increased tax represents an increase of only 1.13c a gallon on diesel fuel and 0.56c a gallon on liquefied petroleum gas. Even these insignificant rises have some cost consequences to those who live in provincial and remote areas. We have argued that these moves associated with oil and oil prices are revenue raising measures- these are, anyhow- rather than conservation measures, and that they should be viewed in that light. They will result in increased prices for consumer goods especially in the country areas of Queensland where transport costs are already high. The increased cost of commodities will further depress those areas. One would have to understand that there is a general depression in country and remote areas which has resulted from a continuing trend over many years of people moving from the country into city areas- a trend which I believe should be arrested as soon as possible for a variety of reasons, including social reasons. The accumulation of population in the major cities on the eastern strip of Australia tends to increase our social problems, not decrease them. In my own mind this movement certainly decreases the quality of life that we expect in this country. It certainly has decreased the quality of life in country areas and that is the reason, I believe, that people have chosen to move to the cities, to their disadvantage. We should do everything to reverse this trend. One way to do so is to ensure that costs in country areas are reduced rather than increased. 
If it is taken from what I am saying that I support equalisation, yes I do support the equalisation of prices as this will mean that increased costs do not have to be met by people in remote areas. I am not saying that we should go to extremes and allow further development or redevelopment of extremely remote or fringe areas, but a large proportion of our country is not in the extreme fringe or desert area. The areas which are suffering from deprivation of population are largely producing areas. We should do our best to ensure that people stay within these areas and do not move into the cities. An increase in the price of diesel by just one fraction, as is done in this legislation by 1.13c per gallon, does not affect just those who use diesel. It is passed on to the cost of electricity. I recall that the removal of the subsidy on fuel was to our cost in support for the Australian Labor Party in country areas. I do not think it was properly realised at the time that the removal of the subsidy would lead to increased costs for those who did not actually use fuel or diesel. For instance, the city of Barcaldine found that on the removal of the subsidy the cost of electricity went up by 10 per cent. So many people who did not even use a car or a tractor were suddenly faced with an escalation of costs. 
I can see the difficulty which the Government faces in order to bring the price of Australian crude up to world parity. What will happen of course is that these increased prices will be inflationary. I do not think anyone will doubt that the increased cost, small though it is in this legislation, will be inflationary. One may have to accept the proposition that Australia has been sheltered from the heavy inflation which occurred overseas following the increase in the price of Middle East oil. Australia was sheltered from that because we had cheap Australian oil available. We now have to face the reality that we are going to increase the price of oil. This will mean that we will now suffer the inflationary effects that other countries suffered so severely. I do not know whether the Government has taken that into account. My view is that we are in for a tough time. Each measure of this sort ought to be considered very carefully even though the increase to be applied under this legislation is very small. 
Another concern that arises- and I can express it this way in the context of these Bills- is that the Government has decided to argue that increased prices such as this should be deleted from consideration by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in wage determinations. I consider this to be unfair. The Government may argue that it has to do this in order to prevent the inflationary pressures that I have mentioned, but I do believe that an increase is a cost to the basic wage earner whose take home pay at the present time is not exceptionally high. We may talk about take home pays of $1 10 and $120. Most of the people I know of in the areas in which I operate receive a take home pay of about this level. They are well below the average general wage. It would be unfair to them if the Arbitration Commission were not to consider in wage determinations a rise in oil prices, yet I believe that the Government intends to argue in this way. I asked a question yesterday about the effects of the oil price increases on the consumer price index and from the answer I was given it seemed obvious, despite the fact that the Minister did not seem to know much about it, that the Government does intend to argue before the Commission that increases in oil prices should not be taken into consideration in its determinations. 
Given the Budget assumption of a discounting that would flow from the oil price increase into the consumer price index, Australian consumers will lose substantially. Again I argue that that cuts consumer demand and leads to a further decline in real wages. I also asked a question today during that relatively lengthy Question Time. When there are four people on this side asking questions and there is still an hour to go it seems that Question Time has been lengthened to 2 hours, whereas normally one feels that it passes too quickly. I suggest that those who are missing today would have had a great opportunity to improve their record, but as I said before they were absent for very good reasons and it enabled us to improve our tally. The question I asked today was on the windfall profits of $150m which will flow to the three producer consortiums. I asked what was going to be done about passing some of these profits back to the Australian consumer. 
I would imagine that would not be sufficient in a situation where the profit is a windfall. It is a substantial windfall and it will increase as the years go by and we approach world parity. Even the United States which we are so often inclined to denigrate took the measures necessary to ensure that windfall profits flowed back to the consumer, flowed back to the society rather than to the companies concerned. The windfall is tremendous. Honourable senators can see just how tremendous a windfall can be.  Senator Wright  argued the other day that the Esso-BHP company had subsidised Australian motorists by many, many thousands of millions of dollars. Not so. It is Australian oil. It is an Australian commodity and the Australian people have a right to benefit from these riches, but without taking away the right of the companies to gain some reasonable profit on their investment and for the risk that they may take. Windfall profits have to be considered as an exceptional situation which is to be met with exceptional measures. We ought not to depend upon the company taxes which these companies will pay. It is surprising how many of the transnational companies- and there are many which are now part of the Australian scene- can diminish their profits by some pricing arrangement with the parent company, subsidiary or other associated company overseas. Their profit in Australia is reduced so substantially that very little company tax is received from many major companies. I remember asking a question some years ago about the profits of the Comalco operation in Queensland. The Commissioner of Taxation replied that this was a private matter; a corporation had to be treated as an individual is treated and matters of taxation were confidential between the Commissioner of Taxation and the client. My argument has been that as far as corporations and companies are concerned, tax payments should be revealed in the interests of the whole community. 
To get back to windfall profits and what is to be done about them, the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  said today that the legislation would provide. I eagerly await the legislation which will be brought down to see what is to be done about windfall profits. I have a series of figures- I do not think time will permit me to cite them to the Senate- which indicate what the windfall will be from the various fields- Gippsland in Victoria, Moonie- Alton in Queensland and Barrow Island in Western Australia. Perhaps I should leave them until we debate the legislation when it comes forward. 
In my opening remarks I said that we did not oppose the Bills. We believe them to be an income producing exercise. The amounts involved are small, but small though they be they will affect remote and provincial areas. I caution the Government to look in the best interests of the nation as a whole very carefully at its energy policies, especially those concerning fuel, both diesel and petrol. It should see that some equilibrium is brought into the industry to prevent the distortions that have been caused by the removal of resale price maintenance which has had some astonishing effects and the heavy discounting that has occurred in the market place. The distribution of fuel has led to the breakdown of conditions in the market place, as I have mentioned before. In my view, it is necessary for the Government to look very closely at what is happening. The producing companies are now restricting their retailing operations. They are almost moving back to a refining- wholesale operation at the expense of those who distribute the petrol in the various localities. The heavy discounting that has taken place, assisted by the companies themselves to the disadvantage of their own dealers, has wrecked the ability of the industry to pay the conditions and to provide the services that are necessary. 
-Yes, that is one of the trends that is occurring. They are introducing a self-service operation. There is now one operator on the driveway whereas previously there were four operators. It might be thought that four operators were unnecessary but one recalls that with that number on the driveway a motorist could expect a reasonable and balanced service. He now receives the minimum of service and although he may obtain a price reduction in the short term, in the long term he will receive, shall we say, a discounted service. 
-They are all doing it now. On the Brisbane scene there are about half a dozen jobbers. In the scramble for volume, prices have been reduced to ridiculous levels. I know, for instance, of service stations which sell petrol at 15c per litre and which are buying that petrol at 15.08c per litre. These prices may have changed over the last two days. In other words, for every litre of petrol they sell they lose 0.08c. It is a great way to go out of business. It places them completely at the mercy of the supplying companies which assist them by way of rebate. It is a matter of what rebate one arranges with the oil company. Some oil companies provide to one group of service stations a 6c rebate, others provide a 3c or 2.5c rebate, while others still would provide an 8c rebate. It is a rough market. We certainly should not be operating in this way because when we do conditions are broken down. Seniors are sacked and juniors are put on; then juniors are sacked and you operate on a selfservice basis. If we are not going to have a regulated distribution industry, we are going to get all sorts of social disorders. That is what we are getting at present. 
I spoke about the youth employment scheme that the Government had and I talked about its being cheap labour for failing industries. This is one failing industry in which that sort of cheap labour is being used. Young lads who have not been employed for some 6 months are now being employed on some of these driveways at a cost of $ i 1 to the operator and some $60-odd to the Government. They are receiving very little training and the conditions under which they work are pretty dismal. Really it is in the interests of all parties to see that that sort of practice does not continue. We can go from petrol distribution to alcohol distribution- the sale of beer and spirits- to furniture distribution and a whole variety of goods and it will be found that heavy discounting will break down the conditions of those who work within the distribution industry. It will also break down the conditions of those who work to produce the article. I say that we will finish up being a nation of shoddy dealers dealing in shoddy goods. I commend the Bills. I got away from the point of the Bills themselves but I took advantage of the time. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement about this matter. 
-by leave-  Mr President,  I would like to take the opportunity of expressing to the family of  Dr Felix  Dittmer the deep regret that my colleagues and I from Queensland have after hearing of his death. I had the opportunity to know Felix Dittmer over a number of years. Although we did not agree politically on many matters, I came to be his friend, especially since it was my advantage to sit alongside him in this chamber. There is no doubt that I learnt many of the tricks that he used in this place. I use the word 'tricks' in the softer sense. Felix Dittmer was a person who with great energy intruded himself into debates in this place by way of speech and interjection. He was a colleague whose experience I appreciated well. To his family, a very large and devoted family, I express my sympathy in their time of loss. On behalf of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland, which he served so well for so long, I express the same sympathy. 

 -Mr President - 
I do not wish to stifle the debate in any way. I think we had a consensus- it was indicated by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)-that  it might be wise to adjourn this debate and I would move that way. 
If that is the case and if that is what the Leader of the Government wants, I shall enter the debate later. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I also refer to the Ellicott matter. There now appears to be a sordidness and meanness about the Prime Minister's handling of this matter. Is the Minister aware that  Mr Barnett  waited until after the publication of the  Canberra Times article  before notifying the former Attorney-General's staff of the discussions held between a journalist and himself? In view of what the Minister said yesterday relating to the relations between Ministers and the Press, does the Minister believe it to be the duty and responsibility of the Prime Minister to inform a Minister of discussions held between a member of the Prime Minister's staff and the Press relating to that Minister prior to the publication of an article? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, follows on that question which was just asked by  Senator Missen  of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Will the Minister on behalf of those people who raised some doubts as to the questions asked by members of the Government at the time, convey to the officers of his Department and to all other people who were involved in the discussions to assist AUS Travel Service Pty Ltd in coming to some arrangements with its creditors, the congratulations of honourable senators on this side of the Senate who sought to have such an arrangement achieved? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
In doing so I indicate my objection to the fact that we have had to wait a whole year for the report. It is only a report concerning a not so important section of our responsibilities. Nevertheless I believe that such a delay should be the subject of comment. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-In following my colleague the Government Whip I want to make a few brief comments. I think it is absolutely necessary to introduce into the record  a table I have which will bring the debate into some sort of order. Government speakers have insisted on considering only the general purpose assistance grants to the States and have excluded from the discussion direct payments as well as other payments through the States. If we include those other payments the argument the Opposition has put forward is quite valid. In 1974-75 the total as a share of personal income provided to the States was 2.34 per cent, in 1975-76 it was 2.98 per cent, in 1976-77 it was 1.76 per cent, and in 1 977-78 it was 1 .6 1 per cent. That is a considerable reduction, and it is quite dishonest and deceptive for government senators to separate out one funding of local authorities and not include in the argument the other two sections of funding. They cannot get away from what this table presents. The amount has dropped from 2.34 per cent in 1974-75 to 1.61 per cent in 1977-78, which is a considerable reduction. I seek leave to incorporate this table in  Hansard. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I take it that she agrees with the Auditor-General's report, which indicates that a serious staff shortage has occurred within her Department. Can she make the  position  clear? She stated that the Department ad made application to the Public Service Board for increased staff yet the Public Service Board said in its report last week that these difficulties have arisen because of the staff ceilings imposed. Am I to understand that the Minister has succeeded at last in convincing someone that the staff ceilings, as far as her Department is concerned, should be removed? If the staff ceilings have not been removed, how does she expect the Public Service Board  to  take any attitude other than that which it has taken to date? 
-For the benefit of the Senate I indicate that the last few lines read as follows: 
In view of this, it is earnestly requested that you take all steps within your power to ensure that any Amendment Bill which will disadvantage the State of Queensland is defeated. 
That statement is in direct contrast to what Government senators have been saying. There was a general acceptance of what the Labor Government was endeavouring to do. The Labor Government had set up regions. Those regions were to receive funds in the normal way. But those regions, on their own behalf, could make direct approach to the Australian Government and receive assistance in return according to the needs and the cases they put forward. In Queensland, there has been a dismantling by the State government of what was the accepted system, a dismantling of what was a series of regions set up in order to properly finance and fund local authority programs. The LiberalNational Party in Queensland led by  Mr BjelkePetersen  has been assisted in this dismantling by the Federal Government. They have done this in a very deceptive way, as previous speakers in the debate have indicated. I say to the Government that what the Opposition has supported in the past when it was in government and what it supports now is valid. It is important to local government. It is important to the type of government the grass roots government- which deals with the immediate needs of the people. 
In spite of what has been said, the figures show that local government will be seriously disadvantaged and the community will suffer. If there is to be, as there will need to be in the future, some injection into the community of moneys to relieve unemployment, the most reasonable organisations to carry out this sort of work, in spite of what  Senator Chaney  has said, will be local authorities. I agree with what  Senator Chaney  has said about the Regional Employment Development scheme which we provided for the express purpose of relieving unemployment. It was ripped off by many local authorities under the control of the parties which he represents in this place. There is no doubt that there was a grave abuse of this scheme. But the abuse of the scheme is not a proper argument to apply against the proper use of the scheme. Eventually it will be necessary for the Government to accept that some initiatives must be taken directly through local government and not through the States. Some State governments have been patently dishonest in their distribution of funds provided by the Commonwealth. They have under-spent, under-allocated and they have also misdirected funds according to thenown political philosophies. In Queensland it is patently obvious that this has happened in a variety of areas. There are a series of questions on the Notice Paper which search out information about moneys provided by the Australian Government which were not spent properly. In this area of local government, the assistance which the Australian Government seeks to provide to local authorities is placed in the hands of State governments which are very biased in their application of the funds. 
It is necessary, because of the program, that we should pass this legislation before the sittings of the Senate is suspended for dinner. So I wish to say this in conclusion: I have, as  Senator Tehan  has, a strong regard for local government authorities throughout all the States of the Commonwealth but in Queensland in particular. In that State, small groups of men and women in their own time take on a massive responsibility to meet a program of needs for their communities with very little funds indeed. Vast areas of land come under their supervision. Their ability to raise funds is extremely limited. Their ability to provide to those isolated areas the amenities which we take for granted in the cities is very difficult indeed. I give them credit for this. But I again indicate to you,  Mr President,  just how biased the State Government of Queensland is in its approach to local authorities. The work of local aldermen and alderwomen is unpaid work which they have to do in their spare time. But because of an action of the State Government in Queensland it is impossible for many men and women who seek to be represented on local authorities to do so. By an Act of the State Government in Queensland, initiated by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  it is impossible for a State public servant to obtain leave of absence to attend a council meeting. Such meetings are generally held during the day. In fact, they are nearly always held during the day. By that Act and that Act alone, he has prevented people such as teachers, railway workers and other State Government employees from serving in what I consider to be one of the most important areas of government. He has denied them their democratic right by refusing them leave to attend these meetings during working hours. He has deprived them of their ability to serve on these local authorities. It seems to me that we are rapidly reaching a stage at which we need to provide funds to these local authorities in order to pay the aldermen and alderwomen to carry out their activities so that any person who wishes to nominate, stand and achieve election should be able to carry out the work of local authority representation. I make these remarks because I believe nothing should be done which will limit by bias, prejudice or lack of funds the work of local authorities, especially in the larger States. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 13 September 1977, Steve Biko, President of the Black People's Convention died, aged 30, while being held incommunicado for questioning in detention without trial in South Africa; 
That this is the twentieth death of a black political prisoner in similar circumstances in South Africa in the last 18 months, and the fourty-fourth death of a prisoner while in police custody in recent years; 
That Steve Biko had been held in detention since 22 August, and had previously been held for 101 days without trial, and in addition, was under a live year house arrest and restriction order; 
That Steve Biko is the acknowledged leader of the black people's resistance to apartheid, racial exploitation and injustice in South Africa, and that in this context his death in the hands of the white police must be regarded with grave suspicion. 
Your petitioners accordingly request the Australian Government to register the strongest protest to the South African Government at the circumstances of Biko 's death. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 -Mr President, I ask you a question and I assure you that I am not trying to ambush you as was suggested by the Leader of the Government earlier. Would you take time to consider the matter which was raised by way of a point of order during question time and refer also to the fact that on the back of the notice of question paper it is stated: 
N.B.- Questions, unless they relate to the course of public business or to matters of urgency, should not be asked without notice, but should be placed on the Notice Paper. 
There seems to me to be in that note at the bottom of the paper an interpretation that would prevent what happened in question time today, that is, the asking of a question of which notice was given to the Minister and the Minister replying in the manner that he would have replied had the question been placed on the Notice Paper. He replied at great length and in great detail reading from a prepared statement. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the actions of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic 
Affairs against certain Chinese. Did the police raid public places and arrest a substantial number of people? Did the police subsequently interrogate these people and detain a small number for breaches of the Immigration Act? Does the Government condone such dragnet operations which catch the innocent as well as the guilty? Will the Minister accept that this method is totally unacceptable in an Australian community and cannot be justified because only an ethnic community is involved? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
1 ) Has the Government decided to argue before the next hearing of the Arbitration Commission that the effect of oil price increases as a result of the Government's budget decision should not be passed on to wage and salary earners under wage indexation; if so, what is the justification for that decision. 
Will such a proposal lead to a further decline in real wages, thus further diminishing consumer demand. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Minister admit- I think he has admitted it- that there is fairly wide speculation in the community on the value of the dollar? Will he deny to the Opposition the right to end such speculation by questioning? Will he, by giving an answer, end the speculation? In particular, will he deny that the Government is endeavouring to raise from $800m to $ 1,000m overseas to shore up the dollar? Will he further deny that the Government expects to increase the deficit and that that is one of the reasons for the proposed borrowing? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that on Friday, 23 September, a senior Treasury official advised the Acting Treasurer that the Treasury was seriously concerned that subsidiaries of major banks acting for Australia in raising overseas loans were advising clients in Australia to remove funds in anticipation of devaluation and that the Treasury official advised the Acting Treasurer that it would be desirable for the names of these companies to be published? Why has the Government not acted on this advice? If the Government is interested in economic subversion, why have the names of these companies not been published? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
The Opposition welcomes the establishment of this commission. Even though it means that three inquiries into the drug problem will be operating at the same time, the statement made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has indicated that close co-operation will be sought and will be given by the two States, New South Wales and South Australia, that already have their own inquiries. In 1967 and 1968 the Senate established a select committee to investigate drug trafficking and drug abuse and that committee brought down a very comprehensive report to the Senate. It is obvious that, although the problem at the time was proved to be very serious, drug trafficking, drug addiction and drug abuse in Australia have reached frightening proportions. So any inquiry that is established will prove useful in determining what means have to be taken to limit and hopefully to eradicate the problem in some way. Therefore, the Opposition accepts the inquiry and hopes that it will look at the Senate report because it was a comprehensive one. It opened up many areas of investigation. Honourable senators will recall that the then  Senator Marriott  chaired that committee. 
However, the terms of reference of the proposed royal commission might be considered to be restrictive, and they may be discussed at a later stage if we have an opportunity to debate the establishment of this commission. It seems to me, from looking at the terms of reference, that the commission will be inquiring into the illegal use of the exotic drugs. Since I was a member of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, I can say from experience that it will be very difficult to establish how to restrict and, hopefully, to eliminate the illegal use of drugs unless we are aware of and inquire into the misuse of all drugs of addiction. The terms of reference tabled by the Minister have limited the inquiry, and the royal commission will not inquire into the area of abuse of the addictive drug of alcohol, which is the greatest drug of abuse in this country, as was proven by the Senate inquiry, and will not inquire into the abuse of analgesics and barbiturates or the abuse of nicotine in cigarette smoking. 
The point I am making is that to isolate the inquiry to the drugs of addition that are referred toin the terms of reference would be to isolate the investigation from the general problem of drug abuse. We are a society which overuses drugs of abuse and the overuse of the accepted drugs is related in some way to the abuse of the illegal drugs. It seems to me that an inquiry of this sort, a royal commission, should be looking at the general area of abuse in order to see the root problem of misuse of the more dangerous drugs, the drugs that are causing such horrific consequences in the community. I can understand that unless the terms of reference are restricted in some way the inquiry may range much too far, and the emergent nature of illegal use of the exotic drugs is such that it needs immediate legislation by this Parliament. I believe that the royal commission will come fairly quickly to making recommendations after searching out the problems and searching out those people who engage in the terrifying trade in the types of drugs which are referred to in the terms of reference. 
I am certain that the two State inquiries have covered some very useful ground. I do not know their terms of reference. Perhaps they are a little wider. Perhaps they cover the areas of which I have spoken, but again I say that I do not doubt that the States that have their own inquiries will co-operate. I take it that this commission will look at the inquiries that the Senate undertook as well as the evidence which has been given already before the two State inquiries. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The matter before the Senate is the report of the Public Works Committee tabled in the Senate on 23 March this year. Although there are a number of things I would like to say about this report I yield to  Senator Kilgariff  who, I know, is anxious to speak. 
I thank  Senator Wright  for correcting my misuse of the word 'excise'. I take the point that he has made. As it stands, it is a duty because it is imposed upon goods which are being exported whereas excise, I take it, is an internal tax. Is that correct,  Senator Wright? 
-The next question  Senator Wright  asked interested me very much. If, as the Minister says, the royalties could be termed to be an excise, where does the responsibility lie to gather that tax? Perhaps  Senator Wright  could tell us a bit more about where he was leading there. Does he say that if, as the Minister admits, it is an excise, is it a Commonwealth responsibility to gather in that tax? 
-I hope the honourable senator does not take too long to take the next step because it is an interesting path that he follows. 
I take the opportunity to add to the remarks of  Senator Mulvihill  and to express my satisfaction with the report which was brought down by the Senate Standing Committee on Science and Environment about the very serious matter of air pollution. Our biosphere is approximately four miles, if it is taken vertically. If we were to measure four miles horizontally it would be about as far as Parliament House is from Civic. It is an atmosphere without which we cannot exist but it not such a great volume of air. We are doing much towards destroying it and any inquiry which is undertaken by the Senate, even though that inquiry may take place only every three years, is a worthwhile inquiry. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
We have had intruded into this debate the dispute which rages in Queensland between the Seamen's Union of Australia and Utah Development Co. The remarks that  Senator Collard  made cannot go unanswered. He stated that Utah had chartered vessels and he admitted that they are manned by Spanish crews. My information is that Utah bought eight bulk carriers for iron ore, coal and oil trade. When it bought those ships they were flying British, Swedish and Norwegian flags and employed their crews under proper award conditions. Utah sacked the crews and registered the ships under flags of convenience- I think in Liberia. Cheap labour Spanish crews were recruited. That flies in the face of what  Senator Collard  said. There is no doubt that Utah bought the vessels. There is no doubt that Utah owns the vessels. Their is no doubt that Utah took them out of the registry of recognised mercantile nations and registered them under the flag of Liberia for the express purpose of employing low wage crews. Incidentally, they happened to be Spanish. They could have been Greek; they could have been South East Asian crews; they could have been South Korean crews. The point I am making is that Utah used a flag of convenience to employ cheap crews. It did that deliberately. It is of no use Utah spending millions and millions of dollars, as it is, on public relations in Australia saying that it is backing Australia. It is of no use its spending all that money, which is more than the Queensland Government receives in royalties, when the truth is that it deliberately converted its ships to a flag of convenience in order to exploit cheap labour. 
So much for Utah and its sincerity. So much for Utah and its actions against the Seamen's Union in Queensland. It has taken out writs against the union to extract damages from the Seamen's Union and in some way to disadvantage the union and intimidate it to accept conditions that Utah is trying to impose. In Queensland at the present time over a hundred seamen are unemployed. In spite of all the things that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  likes to announce from time to time, the Seamen's Union has taken a restrained position. Union members have picketed Utah offices. They stand peacefully on the footpath and they picket Utah offices. They distribute pamphlets in the Brisbane City Square. If  Senator Collard  were to spend some time there, perhaps he would receive one of the pamphlets and read it. I will not impose upon the Senate and ask for leave to incorporate one of the pamphlets in  Hansard.  I will give him one of them later. In fact, I will give him quite a number of pamphlets. He will see that what the Seamen's Union is insisting on is the right for Australian crews, in part, to man vessels which carry Australian exports. This is nothing new. The United States of America insisits on it and writes it into its contracts. 
-I do not know which Act it is, but I accept the information. 
-In speaking to this motion I say that I appreciate the great difficulty that the Joint Committee of Pubuc Accounts must have had with this reference. I commend it for bringing down a fairly detailed report on a very complex matter. However, I cannot allow the report to be brought before the Senate without making one or two comments on it. The report concerns certain events that took place in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs during the time when  Mr Gordon  Bryant was the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and, as one of the members of the Australian Labor Party's subcommittee on Aboriginal affairs, I became very involved at that time in certain activities of the Department. The Public Accounts Committee, following a report of the Auditor-General, undertook an investigation that in large measure referred to certain activities that were carried out in the Torres Strait Islands by a concern called Applied Ecology. 
I refer to paragraph 21 of the report in Chapter 2 at page 9, which reads: 
When the inquiry opened there seemed to be a difference of opinion as to who took the initiative in persuading the Auditor-General that he should carry out an investigation into the financial administration of the Department. It was stated in the departmental submission that is was not the Department's understanding that the examination had resulted from a request by the then Minister as had been stated publicly (allegedly by  Mr Bryant  according to newspaper reports of 6 and 7 March 1974.) The submission went on to state that the initiative in having the intensive investigation carried out, leading to the presentation of the Auditor-General 's report, was taken by the Permanent Head  (Mr Dexter).  It was claimed in the submission that  Mr Dexter  had called on the Auditor-General on 7 September 1973 of his own volition and expressed his deep concern about the financial administration of the Department. 
The Minister at that time,  Mr Gordon  Bryant, contests that and I am in a position to support him.  Mr Gordon  Bryant had become very much concerned with certain aspects of the Department's activities and he took certain steps. One of those steps was to appoint me, together with  Mr Ray  Thorburn, who was then a member of the House of Representatives, to the Board of the companies concerned, the main one being Applied Ecology. I do not want to go back over this matter. I think honourable senators have heard enough about it. We had a fairly wide ranging debate on it, which led to quite a deal of recrimination. I became a Director of this Board and at its first meeting I became concerned about certain things. On 23 August 1973- that is, before the date of 7 September 1973 that is stated in the paragraph of the report to which I have referred-I wrote the following letter to the Attorney-General: 

 Mr dear AttorneyGeneral, 
Recently I was asked by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the  Hon.  Gordon Bryant, to become a director of the Applied Ecology company and two associated companies. 
I had previously expressed concern to the Minister about the formation of these companies, their structure and their  proposed funding by the Government. I had also expressed concern about the management and operational methods used in the turtle farming project but I decided that I could best serve the interests of the Government by accepting the directorship and by giving advice and assistance to correct the grave errors which were apparent to me. 
The letter continues: 
As a Director of the company, at its first meeting I became alarmed at the articles of association and began to question my own position on the Board and the position of other Directors. I would appreciate your advice not only as to the position of the companies but also my own position as Director. There have also been brought to my notice allegations of misuse of public money and I would like to discuss these allegations confidentially with you. 
That was on 23 August 1973. Subsequently I had an interview with the then Attorney-General. Also present was  Mr Harders  of the AttorneyGeneral's Department. If I recall correctly he was the head of the Department. In the discussion that followed it was considered that it was not a matter for the Attorney-General to investigate, that if the allegations were serious enough it was a matter perhaps for the Commonwealth Police, but that surely it must in the first place be a matter for the Auditor-General. It was in that way that the investigation by the AuditorGeneral was commenced. That resulted from a letter that I wrote on 23 August 1 973. 
It seems apparent to me that  Mr Dexter  became aware of this communication and the subsequent meeting and then took quick action to bring the matter before the Auditor-General. I have said some hard things about  Mr Dexter.  I do not intend to go over that area of the past, but I shall make a mild comment at this stage. If I had not written that letter and if the matter had not been brought before the Attorney-General's Department, which subsequently referred it to the Auditor-General, I doubt whether  Mr Dexter  would have taken the initiative. But at all times the then Minister was aware of the correspondence that I had written to the Attorney-General. So let me make it clear to the Senate that it was this initiative that brought about the inquiry which subsequently brought down the recommendations with which we are all familiar. 
Let me turn quickly to another matter. The Committee- perhaps it was as much because of my lack of initiative as for any other reason- did not see any need to call me before it. Perhaps I did not press it because by that time I had perhaps become frustrated after a long period of some 14 months in endeavouring to bring to the notice of the Parliament the distortions which had occurred in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and in particular in the Torres Strait. I spent some 14 months of my time as a director of a company endeavouring to bring some sort of order into a concern which had been promoted beyond reason, if I may put it in that way, as was subsequently proven by the Auditor-General and I think supported by this report brought down by the Public Accounts Committee. The report states that I had been elected as chairman and that some 14 months later I had resigned. Perhaps an inference could be taken by those who read the report. 
-Yes, I will in a moment. In any case, it merely indicates that I became  chairman  of the Committee and some 14 months later resigned from the Committee. The report says that there was a period, a vacuum, in which the operation and activities of Applied Ecology suffered. At this stage I merely want to place on the record the reasons why I resigned. I found it impossible to continue as  chairman  for a variety of reasons. It seemed to me always to be a difficult position to be in to be a member of this Parliament and a  chairman  of a company which was funded by the Government to carry out certain work. I was put there as  chairman  in a sort of caretaker position. I was running into difficulties with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs at the time- my colleague  Senator Cavanagh.  The position became untenable. But it is necessary for me to say that during the period of my chairmanship the company's financial arrangements were brought under control. The extravagances of which the company had been guilty under the directorship of  Dr Bustard  had been corrected. 
I want to read from the minutes of the first annual general meeting of Applied Ecology which was held at Parliament House, Canberra, on Tuesday, 24 September 1974. It was held here for the convenience of members of Parliament. I shall read out the vote of thanks to the retiring  chairman  of directors. I resisted the request to remain on the board. The vote of thanks needs to be placed on the record because recently there has been some criticism involving me and certain decisions that I made. I believe there is a move to allocate some blame to me which in some way will explain the continuing failure of the project. My belief is, and has been from the very commencement, that the whole project of farming fauna, especially turtles, was ill-conceived and likely to fail and that the many millions of dollars that have been poured into the project will be wasted. Honourable senators will note in the recent Budget Papers that the allocation of funds for the project is continuing. But it is now being said that the fact that nothing really has been achieved can be attributed to certain decisions taken by me while I was  chairman.  One of those decisions was to release the many hundreds of ailing turtles that were being held in the most unsanitary and, if one might use the expression, most inhuman conditions in turtle farms in the Torres Strait. In any case, I read into the record the motion moved by the new  chairman  of Applied Ecology,  Mr Smart,  and seconded by  Mr Furzer,  a new director. It reads: 
VOTE OF THANKS TO RETIRING CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS 
Following proposal by  Mr Smart  and seconding by  Mr Furzer  a vote of thanks was passed to the retiring  Chairman  of Directors,  Senator G.  Georges.  Mr Smart  referred to the Senator's excellent work and personal sacrifices on behalf of the Company, especially during the re-structuring phase, and said that the Directors and shareholders were particularly grateful to the  Senator for  the present good position and standing of the Company. 
I feel that ought to go into the record. Another matter is referred to in the recommendations at the end of this report. This is the last comment I wish to make because I do not want to open up the whole of the debate on this sorry matter. I just refer to one of the recommendations which says that any company which is set up in this way should be under the supervision of the AuditorGeneral at all times. 
It is the recommendation in paragraph 67 1 on page 258. It reads: 
The Committee is concerned that the operations of projects such as the turtle and crocodile farms were conducted so as to remove them from the scrutiny of the AuditorGeneral's Office. The Committee is strongly of the view that all Government-owned companies should be subject to the scrutiny of the Auditor-General. The Committee is also of the opinion that consideration should be given by the appropriate authority to the question of a possible conflict of interest developing for officers of departments who are appointed directors of such companies. 
Of course in this particular case that would include members of Parliament. I expressed my concern early in the piece to the AttorneyGeneral of the time. I was also concerned that there was no proper supervision of such projects by the Auditor-General. I trust that the Committee will see that this recommendation in particular is carried out in future by a variety of companies, in particular those which have been set up by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I strongly support this recommendation. But to bear out just how strongly  Mr Thorburn, Mr Neill  and I considered this proposition, without the advice of the Public Accounts Committee, I refer the Senate to resolution 2F of the board of directors meeting on 12 October 1973. It was resolved early in the piece that the shareholders of the company be asked to agree that the AuditorGeneral be given permission, subject to the approval of the appointed auditors, to have access to the books and documents relating to the operation of the company since its establishment. That was a decision we took without the benefit of the advice of the Public Accounts Committee back on 12 October 1973. Any person responsible to this Parliament, especially someone elected to this Parliament, who becomes involved in this area must see immediately the need for the Auditor-General to have such access not only for the protection of the operation but also for his own protection. 
-Up to that stage it had not been under the scrutiny of the AuditorGeneral. If it had been, the errors that developed might not have developed. The AuditorGeneral's report laid some of the responsibility on the Australian National University and in particular it placed responsibility on the Department. The first Auditor-General's report strongly emphasised this. The Public Accounts Committee is to be commended for bringing down its recommendation. 
-By establishing companies of this sort the Department took away from the normal scrutiny of the Auditor-General expenditure of certain moneys. We wrote a letter to the appointed auditors of this company. It might be interesting to read the response from the auditors. We wrote to them on 26 November 1973 regarding access to company records by the Auditor-General. The auditors were Nixon and Partners, Arthur Young and Co., chartered accountants with offices in all States and in London- a very reputable firm. We informed the auditors of the resolution and they said to us: 
Dear  Sir, 
Re: Access to Company Records by Auditor-General 
We thank you for your letter of 2 1 st November, 1 973 and note that the shareholders of Applied Ecology Pty Limited have resolved that the Auditor-General be given permission, subject to the approval of the appointed auditors, to have access to the books and documents relating to the operation of the company since establishment. 
May we first express our surprise that the permission to the Auditor-General depends on our approval. If this requirement is just a courtesy paid to us we acknowledge it with due thanks. 
On the other hand the members might have made this permission subject to our approval for some specific, although unspecified, reason and in case this is the situation we will give a qualified approval for the following reasons: - 
Articles of Association usually places the responsibility of keeping the books and records on the directors and specifies that inspection of these records is not open to a member (not being a director) except as conferred by statute or authorised by the directors or by the company in general meeting. 
Provided your articles contain similar provisions to table A' it would seem to us that the company in general meeting or the directors may allow any member to inspect them. 
With my lack of accountancy knowledge and with my lay experience, it seems to me that by setting up these companies under these sorts of provisions the responsibility of supervision has b een taken away from the Auditor-General and can be given back to him only by some resolution. What the Public Accounts Committee is saying is that that ought not to be so. That is exactly what I am saying- it ought not to be so. I think  Senator Wright  is implying the same thing. 
I am afraid  Senator Wright  will have to ask the Auditor-General that. On my cursory reading of the Public Accounts Committee report-  Senator Messner  might be able to advise us on this- the Committee actually did that. I said at the time that the setting up of this three-tiered structure of companies to receive large amounts of money from a department was very questionable. Our Acting  Chairman  was a member of the Public Accounts Committee. I do not doubt that he is of the same opinion. It seems to me that after all this time we have reached the conclusion that the setting up of companies of this sort is to be viewed with some concern and caution, especially if large funds are provided. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs is funded to the extent of some $ 1 30m a year. If in the early stages it was not properly equipped to handle that sort of money in a normal departmental way, perhaps it ought not to have been allowed to set up companies to disburse this money. 
Another thing appears in this sort of operation when a company is given $ 1 m in a year. I am not just using that figure as an exaggeration. That is the amount of money that was provided to Applied Ecology in one year. Large amounts of that money were then deposited in banks in interest bearing deposits. At the end of that year the budgetary requirements of the company for the next year were asked for and the company, in spite of having substantial funds deposited in banks, made an application for further funds based on a previous allocation. It seems to me that rather than the Auditor-General being separated from this scrutiny he ought to be looking at such matters much closer than he would look at normal departmental activity. 
Perhaps I have gone round and round in expressing my concern. I said three things. The first was that in fairness to the Minister at the time,  Mr Gordan  Bryant, it was his initiative indirectly, and I think I have proven so, that set the AuditorGeneral into operation. In some way I have tried to justify my own role by reading the resolution from the minutes of Applied Ecology, and I have brought up this very important matter of the supervision of the money of companies or foundations of this sort. There was a conflict between the head of the Department and the Minister which broke out into this rather shabby public exhibition where we had for the first time a Minister appearing before the Public Accounts Committee in direct conflict and contradiction with the head of the Department. It was not a happy episode for the Minister at the time. I have a great sympathy for the Minister or for any other Minister who is likely to find himself in that situation. Ministers of government expect to have complete loyalty from the heads of their department. They do not expect to be frustrated. They do not expect non-co-operation. 
In fairness to  Mr Dexter,  he was caught in a situation of serving two masters- the Council for Aboriginal Affairs of which he was a member and also the Minister. He played one against the other. In so doing he found himself in a position of conflict with the Minister who must accept full responsibility with the Parliament. If there is an implied criticism of  Mr Bryant  here, I think it is an unjust one. The Public Accounts Committee, of course, would not be aware of how the situation developed. It is very difficult, after accumulating such a mass of conflicting facts and such a dialogue of error, to be able to come down with a report which would really give full justice to the innocent. I believe Gordon Bryant was a very sympathetic Minister and I think the report accepts that. 
It acknowledges it. I think also that in an area of grave neglect, he was perhaps over-sympathetic. That, of course, is understandable. He has been accused by the head of his own Department of lack of cooperation and consultation. In my experience that is not true. He used his own colleagues within his own Party, by way of a committee, and involved them in the everyday and week to week decisions he arrived at. He had a very substantial responsiblity to carry out the policy of previous government and of the Labor Government to correct the deprivation suffered by the Aboriginal people. Following previous Ministers he endeavoured, with substantial funds which were given by government, to correct the situation quickly. In endeavouring to correct the situation quickly perhaps he may have fallen into error. I do not think he did. When one endeavours to do things so quickly there are always those who will come to see just how much they can gain for themselves. There is no doubt that certain people ripped off the system. In particular, there were whites who ripped off the system. The money was readily available. Consultancy was over-used. Moneys were recommended to people who were not properly equipped to use those moneys. They fell into error and more damage than good was done. 
If honourable senators have the time to read the report I ask them to pick up those criticisms and recommendations of the Committee. I ask them to recollect that other Ministers had difficulty with the Council of Aboriginal Affairs. In particular, I recall that  Mr Wentworth,  who endeavoured to do in his own way what Gordon Bryant subsequently endeavoured to do, had difficulties with the Council. I think the previous Minister,  Mr Howson,  found the same difficulties. Gordon Bryant certainly found those difficulties. There is one common denominator in all this. One must say that that common denominator was  Mr Dexter.  I commend the Public Accounts Committee for the long inquiry which extended across a couple of Parliaments. The character of the Committee changed; the membership of the Committee also changed. It must be very difficult for a committee with a changing character to carry out a long investigation of this sort. What this investigation reveals and what it recommends are sufficient to justify the work of the Committe. I commend the Committee for it. 

 - Mr Chairman, I wish to make a couple of comments in respect of the Office of National Assessments Bill. I do not share the enthusiasm of some of my colleagues for this legislation. I hope that it evolves, as the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  said it would, into something worthwhile. I trust that it will not mutate into something we do not expect. I want to ask a simple question in the Committee stage: 
Will this statutory authority come under the scrutiny of the Parliament, in particular at the time of the consideration of the Estimates - 
-Or are we likely to be faced with the general answer we receive when we ask questions on intelligence, that is, that the Government does not answer? 
I hope that when the Minister makes his speech in reply he will put that on the record so that we can refer to it in the future. 
On behalf of  Senator Ryan,  I wish to state that events have passed by this item. I have nothing further to say. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I seem to be doomed to sudden speeches on this subject. It will be recalled that I rose in the debate last Thursday evening for. the purpose of seeking leave to continue my remarks later to allow the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  to make a ministerial statement. The Senate promptly moved on to the next item of business and I found myself endeavouring to make a speech on a subject that I knew less about than I know about air pollution. Now that I am on my feet I should like to make just a few constructive comments concerning the review of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution which we are debating. May I say how pleased I am, and many of my colleagues share this view, that the committees of the Senate are looking at past reports which have been presented to the Senate to see whether the recommendations contained in those reports have been acted upon. It is of tremendous importance, especially in an area which concerns our environment- in this case the area of air pollution- that we monitor the situation year by year. We are not doing quite that at the present time, but with a problem that is still on the increase, a problem that we have not brought under control, it is necessary that the Senate should be kept well informed. This report brings us up to date, and I commend the recommendations contained in it to all honourable senators, having in mind that the purpose of our committees is not only to investigate a problem and make recommendations but also to keep the Senate well informed. That leads to better and more constructive debate. 
Air pollution is of concern to all thinking people hi the community. In the major cities on our eastern coast the problem of air pollution is on the increase. As we develop our freeways, the more dependence we place upon the use of the motor vehicle and not on public transport the more we will have to face up to the problem of the pollution of our atmosphere by hydrocarbons and emissions from motor vehicles. The original Senate select committee which investigated air pollution found the motor vehicle to be the main contributor to air pollution. Exhaust emissions were such that they were giving cause for grave concern in the centre of both Sydney and Melbourne. As a result of that report, many steps have been taken to control emissions from car exhausts. Of course, those steps have added to the cost of vehicles, and recently we have heard comments from car manufacturers and certain sections of the motor vehicle industry that the high cost of those controls, added to the cost of the vehicle, should be taken into consideration. Perhaps we should be able to put up with a certain level of pollution and keep down the cost of cars. The question has also been asked: Why should we impose upon the outback dweller an added cost for his car when he does not have to face the problem of air pollution? Why should he have to pay an added cost for his vehicle in order to correct a problem which is essentially a city problem? That might be able to be corrected in some way, I am not certain, but I would hesitate to accept such a proposition if it means that the standards that we are beginning to demand in the cities have to be relaxed. 
The problem in certain areas appears to be one of a relaxation of effort in the control of pollution, both of the air and of water. I believe that a subsequent report of this Committee will deal with the question of water pollution. There is a great need to adjust the community's thinking, so that people will consider reducing the impact of pollution upon the environment and upon our quality of life. I believe for two reasons that it is necessary to change people 's attitudes in order to reduce the wastage of energy: Firstly, such a change would in many ways reduce the problem of air pollution; secondly, it would also conserve our rapidly reducing sources of energy. It is for that reason that I believe this debate cannot be separated from the debate which follows. I think the next matter to be dealt with this afternoon as part of General Business is the report on solar energy. It is my view that if we accelerate research into solar energy, if we facilitate and expedite the use of solar energy devices, we will also reduce considerably the problem of air pollution. 
In conclusion, I wish to commend the Committee for its report. I notice that the Committee consisted of  Senator Jessop,  as  Chairman, Senator Mulvihill, Senator Bonner, Senator Melzer, Senator Townley  and  Senator Colston.  The secretariat consisted of the secretary,  Mr Dawe,  and the research officers, Miss H. Church and  Mr A.  C. Snedden. It would be remiss of the Senate not to put on record its appreciation of the work done by the Committee members and the support given by the staff. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Will the Minister for Industry and Commerce advise how the Government intends to implement the freer money approach to small businesses- honourable senators will recall that the Government announced this proposal in the Senate last week- while still adhering to its stated money supply growth target of 8 per cent to 10 per cent for the current year? Is it a fact that, if more money is made available through banks and other financial institutions to small businesses, other groups will have less access to funds? How then is the Government to maintain its money supply target as previously announced? Will the Minister assure the Senate that there will be no restriction on access to funds by other sections of industry? 
I listened carefully to  Senator Collard  's speech. I agreed with a large portion of it, especially when he put a case for the use of alternative forms of energy, a reduction of impact upon the environment, and the improvement of the quality of our life, with less dependence upon fuels which damage and pollute the atmosphere upon which we depend. I agreed with most of the points that he put forward, with the exception of that part of his speech in which he put a case for the immediate development and exploitation of our uranium resources. Those of us who had an opportunity to watch  Monday Conference  last night saw and heard a debate in considerable depth which would have given us cause to pause before supporting too strongly the development of our uranium resources- not so much because of the by-products of use for peaceful purposes but because of the danger of proliferation of nuclear weapons. We cannot deal lightly with the problem, and for that reason it is necessary to support a moratorium to allow us to become more fully informed. The information that emerged from last night's  Monday Conference  appeared to be that most advanced nations are now considering a moratorium. There seems to have been a relaxation of their desire to accelerate the use of nuclear energy. However, I thought that  Senator Collard  's references to the means by which we could reduce our energy use and conserve our energy resources were well thought out. 

 Senator Collard 's speech was much more constructive and much more relevant than that made by  Senator Bonner,  and I cannot make a contribution to this debate without referring to what  Senator Bonner  said. He took Opposition senators to task for not being present in the chamber. He considered that to be a lapse on our part. I remind  Senator Bonner  that it is the responsibility of the Government to keep the House. I also remind him that most honourable senators are engaged in work outside this chamber on a variety of committees and it does him no credit to refer to the absence of any honourable senator, knowing as he does that honourable senators are fully engaged in important work outside the chamber, whether it be on party committees or parliamentary committees or interviewing constituents. I say to  Senator Bonner  and to every other honourable senator that any time they wish to refer to the absence of honourable senators they will be reminded of the state of the House and a quorum will be called. The Opposition has taken a view and a position of co-operation with the Government to allow the business to flow smoothly through this place. I suggest to those honourable senators on the Government side who have some influence on  Senator Bonner  that he ought to be reminded that he will bring us into a state of no cooperation if he continues with the remarks that he has made. 

 Senator Bonner was quite unfair when he made a considerable number of disparaging references to the efforts of the Labor Whitlam Government, especially the support that it gave to the Aboriginal people. He referred to the 23 years- that blissful period or period of the pastfor which he pined of the previous LiberalCountry Party government. As an Aboriginal he ought not to need reminding of how little was done to improve the conditions of his race. Without in any way taking away credit from  Mr Wentworth  whose portfolio in the previous 
Liberal-National Country Party government covered the responsibility for Aboriginal affairs, it was a Labor government that created the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It was the Labor Government that began spending large sums of money to improve the position of Aborigines in the community. It suffered some criticism in that it spent too much too fast. But it believed that a race of people which had been discriminated against for so long should be discriminated for. No one should take away the credit for the work well done from those Ministers who were responsible for Aboriginal affairs in the Labor Government. We trust that the Government is carrying on - 
I thank honourable senators for their assistance at this late hour. I may say to  Senator Wright  that that was an aberration. I was one of several people who drew attention to that problem. It must be recalled that the turtle farming project was commenced under the auspices of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. It was commenced during the period of the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government and we inherited it. We suffered as a consequence from the failures of that project. I might say that unless something is done about this project, the present Government also will suffer some criticism because of it.  Senator Bonner  did himself no credit by making the emotive speech he made tonight. If he continues to insult members of the Opposition in the way that he did tonight he will be very much on his own. We are not prepared to take that sort of insult from him in the future. 
I participate in the Budget debate tonight at this late hour for the obvious reason that Whips must often take a slot in the speaking order at a late hour in order to prepare the program for the next day. I take the opportunity to bring to the attention of the Senate a matter which I as a Queenslander consider to be of grave concern. I refer to the recent severe restrictions of certain civil liberties in Queensland. I can do no better than read from an editorial in the Melbourne  Age  today. I beg your indulgence,  Mr President,  to read the editorial which is headed, 'It's no joke in Queensland.' I ask  Senator Wright  to note that headline. 
I am referring to today's Melbourne  Age.  The editorial is saying that what is happening in Queensland is no longer a joke and it cannot be confined to Queensland and to Queensland alone. The editorial commences: 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen, customarily a figure of fun in the sophisticated south, is proving once more that he really is no laughing matter. The man, and through him the State he controls, are easy targets for throw-away lines welcome to Queensland and the Ninteenth Century. But while Queensland is far away and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  wields no practical power in the rest of Australia, Bjelke-Petersen principles involved in his latest law-and-order campaign demand wider consideration. The Queensland Government is inexorably limiting the ability (and thereby the right) to dissent. In one particular field it is giving meaning to the radicals' catch-cry of 'police State'. 
The Government has altered the Traffic Act concerning appeals against refusals by the police superintendent to issue permits to hold a march. Under the old regulations, appeals were made to a justice or magistrate, whose decision was final. Now appeals go to the Commissioner of Police. Of course the police have a role in deciding on the advisability of demonstrations: they are charged with maintaining order; they must consider factors ranging from the disruption of traffic to the risk of violence. But the system of appeals against the police being heard by police is wholly unsatisfactory, especially when the police chiefs admit they have long been lobbying for a ban on protest marches. 
The right to peaceful dissent has only been won after a long, bitter and bloody struggle. It is a right which is particularly needed in Queensland where the gerrymander is alive and well, and where representative democracy is sorely wounded. In the last election the National Party gained 27.9 per cent of the vote and 39 seats; Labor (which admittedly contested many more electorates) won 36 per cent of the vote and 1 1 seats. The Government frequently turns parliamentary proceedings into a sham, gagging debate and stilling criticism. Little wonder then that many people feel they must be their own representatives- in the streets. 
I will continue to read from the editorial: 
There has been vigorous opposition in Queensland to the limiting of dissent- and not just from students and the Left. The Roman Catholic Archbishop, the Anglican Dean and Protestant leaders have expressed disquiet.  Mr BjelkePetersen,  with an eye on the coming State election and a conspiracy theory for every occasion, has accused them of being manipulated into supporting communists and radicals. Rubbish! The churchmen are seeking to protect a legitimate right. It may be argued that any demonstration, however peaceful the intentions of the majority carries the risk of some disorder. A balanced, civilised society must be prepared to accept a tolerable risk, But in Queensland , with avenues literally blocked to those who want to march in peace, resulting frustration might indeed lead to violence in the streets.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  would inevitably be the first person to condemn such happenings. But he would be criticising what would largely be his own handiwork. 
I recommend that editorial, in spite of what  Senator Webster  said. He said that it is a lot of garbage. 

 Senator Grimes- With due respect, I was not the only one interjecting,  Mr President. 
-Perhaps if I did not pause so long interjections would not run on as they have. 
I thank you for your protection,  Mr President.  Essentially, what comes out of the editorial is this: In Queensland we have reached a situation in which the State Government is not responsive to the will of the people. Certain figures were given in that editorial which indicate that a party can become the government on a minority vote. I think what needs to be done in Queensland is, firstly, to correct the voting system which allows that to happen. I do not think it should rest in the hands of a political party to influence a redistribution, whether it be the Australian Labor Party, the Australia Party, the National Party or the Liberal Party. They ought not to have any influence on a subsequent redistribution or on the placing of boundaries. In one case such a system allowed one party to remain in government for some 20 years, and a subsequent party to be still in government after 23 years. 
If we are to correct the situation which has arisen in Queensland what is needed is a fair electoral system. I must admit that in seeking a solution for Queensland's problem I have been attracted to the electoral methods in Tasmania. I do not quite understand what the Hare-Clarke system is about but I shall endeavour to get as much information as possible. I suggest that this is the only solution that is available to Queensland. The recent redistribution in Queensland made the situation even worse. In the coming State elections in Queensland, which will be held on 12 November, the Australian Labor Party will need almost 60 per cent of the vote to gain government. The Liberal Party was sadly disadvantaged in the redistribution and is likely to become the minority party. By an unfair balance of electors within zones and electorates the National Party, with a minority vote, might become the government in its own right. To me that is a travesty of justice, a travesty of democracy, which leads to the very thing about which churchmen in Queensland are protesting. 
-How can I proceed,  Mr President,  without responding to what  Senator Wright  has said? How can I manage if he is going to provoke the interjections he has provoked? Surely he understands what a Budget debate is all about; surely he understands that this is a States House, and surely he understands that I represent the State of Queensland. He says time and time again that this is not a House of review. It has not evolved into a House of review- a House in a bicameral system- it is a States House.  Senator Wright  has said this time and time again. In fact, in the recent referendum he campaigned heavily on the basis that this was a States House. Yet at this moment, during a Budget debate, he denies me the right to raise a State matter. How can he, as an Australian living in Tasmania, separate himself from the problems which I face as an Australian living in Queensland? The deprivation of civil rights which we suffer in Queensland affects him in Tasmania. The laws which the Queensland Government enacts are laws which we would not permit. This very regulation which limited the rights of people in Queensland is a regulation which  Senator Wright,  as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, would throw out. 
I am not familiar with the upper House in Tasmania, but if it is of the complexion of the upper House in New South Wales and of the upper House which was once in Queensland, it is something which has to be reformed. I do not doubt that  Senator Wright  is very active. 
-Then it is about time it was changed. The honourable senator merely supports my argument. If I may be permitted to continue to speak on State matters, I should like to refer the Senate to the  Courier-Mail  of today, in which church leaders issued a joint statement which is signed by the Anglican Archbishop of Brisbane, Archbishop Felix Arnott; the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Brisbane, Archbishop Francis Rush; the Lutheran Church President, the Reverend R. J. Mayer, and the Queensland Council of Churches President, the Reverend A. R. Gresham. The statement reads: 
Last Friday the Uniting Church Synod strongly supported a resolution calling on the State Government to change the existing law on street marches. It said the law was causing division with the community.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  replied that the Government had no intention of changing its policy. He claimed some churchmen were being manipulated into supporting communists and radicals. 
One would expect that kind of statement from the Minister for Science,  Senator Webster.  It is coincidental, I suppose, that he belongs to the same Party as  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. 
I do not doubt that on the first opportunity he would make the same statement.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  stated - 
I was about to say- 
I was saying that the sort of statement which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has made would be the sort of statement which  Senator Webster  would possibly make on the first opportunity that presents itself to him. The newspaper article reported  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to have continued: 
 If churches wanted to consort with athiests and Communists, dedicated to the elimination of religion, that was their problem. 
Referring to the statement by the churchmen, the article continued: 
The statement said: 'Debate marred by intemperate language contributes nothing to a meeting of minds: it only increases division. 
Debate interrupted. 
-by leave- Lest the Senate should get the idea that only  Senator Rae  is concerned about this matter, I add my protest to the delay in the presenting of reports in this place. I strongly support  Senator Rae's  initiative in this matter. I hope that we quickly get an explanation as to why this report is so late. I would also like it to be made certain in the future that on the presentation of papers the dates are clearly shown so that the Senate can be alerted to whether they are late. 

 Senator WITHERS (Western AustraliaLeader of the Government in the Senate)- by leave- I assure honourable senators that I shall make urgent inquiries of my colleague in the other place, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  on the basis that I would like to inform the Senate tomorrow why this delay has occurred. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement on the same matter. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security and again refer to the position of school leavers. Will the Minister tell the Senate what are the Government's intentions regarding the payment of unemployment benefit to school leavers this year as the end of the school year is approaching rapidly? The Minister has indicated previously that she would give some guidelines as to their position. 
I take this first opportunity to make some comments about AUS Student Travel Service. We heard during the debate on the first reading of the Oilseeds Levy Bill, two contributions one by  Senator Baume  and one by  Senator Messner,  which indicated that those two senators* are engaged in a politically motivated vendetta, not so much against AUS Student Travel Service as against the Australian Union of Students itself. They are free to do that at any time they wish, and we can enter upon a debate in defence of AUS if we wish; but one thing to which I object, and to which I have objected at Question Time, is the attempt by certain senators to disadvantage AUS Student Travel Service and prevent it from trading out of its difficulty by arrangement. Let me, with the permission of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  quote a letter which I sent to him after this matter had been raised by way of question in the Senate. 
-The correspondence was directed to the Minister and I thought I would seek his consent to make that correspondence a matter of record. Following the question on the AUS Student Travel Service and the difficulties in which it found itself, I sent a letter to  Senator Cotton  in these terms: 
Further to our conversation, may I make representation on behalf of the AUS Travel Agency. I would like you to understand that the reasons for my objection to questions in the Senate on this matter were based on the desire to prevent anything being said or done which may prejudice the survival of the agency. My concern is that the future of this worthwhile enterprise may be caught up in the political controversy that surrounds the Australian Union of Students itself. 
On the information that I have it appears to me that the agency may be able to trade its way out of its difficulties with the assistance of the airlines with which it dealt, especially Qantas, and that every effort should be used to bring the parties together. 
It is for this reason I seek your assistance to convince Qantas to co-operate. Under Section 181 of the Companies Act of Victoria, there are provisions for the parties to come to such an arrangement and it is in the interests of Qantas to do so. The annual turnover of business with Qantas and TAA amounts to approximately$11m per annum, which would represent a significant proportion of the turnover of these companies. The collapse of AUS Student Travel would lead to a dispersal of this business to other airlines. 
I believe that is the motive of the two senators concerned. They would prefer to see this business dispersed to other agencies, and that is the motivation behind the federation which wrote that letter which  Senator Messner  read. They are after that business, and Senators Baume and Messner have become parties to that endeavour. 
I quote further: 
As I understand the situation AUS Student Travel because of its cheaper price structure has been of great benefit to students, to the tourist industry and to the airlines. I do not doubt that there may have been faulty accountancy procedures which did not reveal a loss trend earlier but surely this can be corrected and prices adjusted to reverse the trend especially since discounts given have been very generous. The alternative is a collapse in which many hundreds of students will lose substantial sums and creditors will be seriously affected. 
I appeal to you to use your influence through your Department to assist this student enterprise that has in the past assisted so many people. 
Let me put it to the Senate that AUS Student Travel in the early stages of its operation did everything possible to set up an accounting procedure which would satisfy its auditors. In fact it asked its auditors to set up such an accountancy procedure. The auditors were Hungerfords- and no mean firm is Hungerfords. This was the firm that was approached to set up the accountancy procedure. The firm was the auditor which directed the type of system that AUS Student travel should use. 
There has been some question about the profit at the end of 1975-76 and 1976-77. It has been said that because of some qualified audit what was a profit was in fact a loss. But the seriousness of the matter as far as AUS management was concerned was that it worked on the basis of the previous figures that indicated that the organisation ran at a profit. For that reason, AUS Student travel continued to give substantial discounts to students. Let me put this to the Senate: The discounts that AUS Student Travel was giving to students was 49 per cent. In my mind that was an over generous discount. But many many - 
-Forty nine per cent discount of the full price. 
Yes, charging 51 per cent. From the information I have it was giving a 49 per cent discount. That was a substantial discount. Many people in the community took advantage of it. I am assured that, before AUS Student Travel tightened up its procedures, many leading citizens in public service departments took advantage of the AUS Student Travel discount fare to travel particularly overseas. I can give the Senate the name of the head of a government department, if I so desired to do so, who used AUS Student Travel to get a discount. 
-No, not at this stage. I ask the honourable senator not to push me to that point. If  Senator Baume  were to understand the market place, he would understand why Qantas Airways Ltd used AUS Student Travel to its own advantage. 
If the honourable senator was not engaged in a profession that is fairly closed, he would know that arrangements are made in the marketplace by which certain charges are made. But there are also secondary arrangements which allow for substantial discounts. One can argue that such arrangements are illegal and that they break regulations. I will admit that Qantas Airways Ltd was party to the breaking of regulations. 

-Yes, OK. They disregarded certain regulations in the market- place in order to survive commercially. If Qantas h ad not taken advantage of AUS Student Travel to enable it to discount flight fares, Qantas would have been at a disadvantage when compared with overseas airlines that were doing exactly the same thing. What sort of imposition was the Government prepared to put on Qantas or on TAA? The honourable senator knows as well as I do that when one buys theatre tickets in a group booking arrangement one gets the discount price but if one buys singly one pays the highest price. Another example is in the case of tyres. If one forms an association of people- one could do this openly before the trade practices legislation came into force but now one has to do it under cover- one can arrange to buy tyres at a discounted price. This sort of discounting arrangement is going on all the time. That is the nature of the market, and the honourable senator ought to understand this fact. AUS Student Travel was assisting Australian airlines to survive economically. The problem of AUS Student Travel was that it discounted too heavily. It was giving a 49 per cent discount. 
Yes, of course it will make good reading. It will make accurate reading. I am saying that commercially there was no other way for these companies to operate. In fact, there was a symbiotic arrangement that enabled them both to do business well. The problem, however, was that AUS Student Travel was discounting too heavily. I would not be surprised if there were many honourable senators opposite who, when they were students, did not take advantage of AUS Student Travel to go overseas. I know that my youngsters were able to go overseas and to return at half the determined price. If they had not been able to get that discounted price, they would not be able to travel. That is what AUS Student Travel has been able to do for many students. Now a scheme of arrangement operates. I approached the Minister who was responsible to see whether some arrangements could be made to help commercial enterprises that were in difficulty to survive. All AUS Student Travel needs to do is to reduce the discount from 49 per cent to 40 per cent and it could trade itself out of difficulty. What is said in the letter is correct. If AUS Student Travel cannot maintain that discount it will not be able to get out of difficulty. These international arrangements suit only certain organisations. Most of the regulations which are laid down are broken more often than they are kept. If AUS Student Travel keeps to those regulations that the travel agencies want to place on it possibly it will not be able to trade out of difficulty. I believe that if AUS 
Student Travel is allowed to operate as it has operated in the past without giving such a substantial discount, it will trade itself out of difficulty. 
It is completely dishonest for honourable senators to come into this place and make such charges against Qantas Airways Ltd and TransAustralia Airlines for taking advantage of the arrangement with AUS Student Travel in this way. It is dishonest, especially when, I would say, most honourable senators opposite- especially those who belong to the National Country Party- will take a government warrant and use it with Ansett Airlines of Australia, not TAA. 
Yes, that happens. I guarantee that most members of the National Country Party would use their government warrants with Ansett. To my mind, that is a highly questionable practice. To my mind it was a highly questionable practice that members of the National Country Party should use government warrants to travel on Ansett when attending a conference at Mount Isa. I believe it would be a dishonest practice on the part of Cabinet members if they were to use government warrants to travel to Brisbane on Ansett. If we are looking at dishonest practices, they are dishonest practices. They are questionable practices. If we are to talk about what is happening in the market place, the wheeling and dealing and the contraarrangements that go on in the market place, we have to understand the reality of the situation. If we want to impose on Qantas and give it no way out in regard to the regulations that are laid down internationally and which every other organisation breaks, then, of course, Qantas will be at an economic disadvantage. The motive behind the remarks of both honourable senators today is to disadvantage AUS Student Travel because they want to disadvantage the Australian Union of Students. More than that, they want a dispersal of that business to other travel agencies which have not been able to get into the arrangement. Why should AUS Student Travel not have priority of business with its own students? 
It had the business capacity to do just as well as Patrick Partners, for instance, in the past. A couple of members of this Parliament were members of Patrick Partners and did not do so well. 
-I am not raising that matter now. 
If, in a subsequent debate, the matter of the securities industry - 
-I will not go to water. The honourable senator knows that I will not go to water. But I do not think it is necessary to go into the matter. I am merely saying in reply to an interjection that Patrick Partners was mismanaged; it was poorly managed. It had good accountants and good auditors. It was advised by those accountants and those auditors. If I recall correctly, the audited statements turned a $7m profit into a $7m loss for the Mineral Securities company. That was very poor advice with which the accountants came forward and poor auditing, if I recall correctly. There may have been a similar error in the case of Patrick Partners. All commercial judgments may have been made on the basis of a profit in a previous year which subsequently was disclosed by the same auditors as a loss. 
The directors were unaware of the loss situation. If  Senator Hall's  auditors and accountants were to come to him and say that he had made a $126,000 profit he would say: 'We will proceed with the same discounts, the same prices and the same arrangements for the next 12 months'. If at the end of the next 12 months they came to him and said 'We were wrong last year, it was not a $ 126,000 profit but a loss', the decision to continue as previously would have been a decision made in error. That is what happened with AUS Student Travel. If it had been established that AUS Student Travel was operating at a loss because of the high discounts it was giving, it could have rearranged its business slightly to get itself out of the problem. This is exactly what has happened to this travel agency. It has a chance of trading itself out of its difficulties. It does not do honourable senators opposite any credit to continue to attack this travel agency when it is trying to trade itself out of its difficulties. 
I am saying that my letter to the Minister who was responsible at the time, not the Department of Transport, was the responsible way of handling the matter. I am saying that the methods used by  Senator Baume,  of extensive questioning before the Estimates committees and raising the matter again in this debate tonight, are the wrong methods. They will prejudice AUS Student Travel in its recovery. If that is the intention of both  Senator Baume  and  Senator Messner,  they have done a darned good job. My purpose is to endeavour to put the other case. I am saying that it was a worthwhile agency that did a reasonable job for many thousands of students and will continue to do so. If it has got into difficulties and has made arrangements to which a court has agreed, then of course we should encourage those arrangements and we should assist this group to get out of its difficulties. 
I may have become somewhat excited over this issue, but that is my southern nature which flares from time to time. It seems to me to be quite unjust that honourable senators on the Government side should be continually attacking the Australian Union of Students. If it is in error, or if honourable senators opposite believe that its present leadership nas become discredited, they should be encouraging students to do what they ought to do- participate in the meetings which lead to the election of officers at the very top of AUS. What they ought not to be doing is encouraging students to opt out and to start saying: 'It is a matter of conscience whether you pay your fees or whether you do not pay your fees'. Even at a high school there is a compulsory requirement to pay a sports fee unless hardship can be shown. At the State schools with which I was familiar it was a requirement that each and every one of us should pay each year a fee to enable us to carry out certain sporting activities. 
The Australian Union of Students imposes a levy of $2.40- the price of three packets of cigarettes- and each student throughout Australia is obliged to pay that levy. For goodness sake, are we going to encourage students or groups of students throughout Australia to withdraw on the basis of conscience from paying $2.40 a year towards the operation of a national organisation? If that organisation is not carrying out its constitutional charter then there are means of correcting that. It can be corrected by participation; by taking an interest in the elections. If a minority has gained control of an organisation like the Australian Union of Students then it is the fault of the many indifferent students who do not care. All that Government senators are doing is encouraging students who do not care to take a further indifferent attitude and opt out of paying $2.40 a year to keep the organisation going. I am surprised that they should put that proposition. I have referred to compulsory levies, and every Government senator pays compulsory third party insurance and does not object as a matter of conscience. They have to pay it because it is for the common good. 
-No, but the point is that you pay it. All sorts of compulsory levies are imposed on primary producers, and Government senators would not encourage any of them as a matter of conscience to withdraw from paying. To me that would be quite extraordinary, but I should be used to extraordinary positions being taken by the Government. I reaffirm what I said before about AUS Student Travel. It should be separated from the Australian Union of Students and its political activities, if honourable senators opposite want to say that they are political. 
-Then argue that separately, but do not prejudice a commercial organisation which has done so much in the past and which can do so much in the future. 
I take the opportunity to speak to this Bill merely to make an appeal to the Government. Perhaps it could have been more easily dealt with in the Committee stage but since I am on my feet I will do it now. I ask the Government to consider a proposition for which there is now apparent need. The determinations are subject to disallowance as a whole, are they not? If we disagree with the determination, is it not disallowed as a whole? 
-Nevertheless, I think they are relevant. I put the point that the Government may take into consideration that when we have a determination from the Tribunal we should, as a Senate, be able to disallow it in part. At the present time I think the situation is that if we wish to disallow certain sections of it we must disallow the whole determination. I bring that to the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  Perhaps he will consider that proposition when the matter comes before the Government. 
I wish to speak to this motion because I believe we have come to a point where co-operation in the Senate is breaking down. For that reason I want to make it perfectly clear that if the Government intends to behave as it has today it will find that we will endeavour to place our point of view clearly and perhaps at length on every possible occasion. This morning a proposition was put to the Senate that it should sit tomorrow. The Opposition wished to debate that proposition and to explain that we thought it was unnecessary to sit tomorrow. This is not the end of the session. We will have a sitting of the Senate next week and it would be possible, because of our light program, to debate next week the legislation that it is proposed we should debate tomorrow. 
What seems to have happened is that the House of Representatives has taken it for granted that it can put through legislation on a Thursday and demand that the Senate sit on Friday to deal with that legislation. As a person who has to make arrangements on behalf of senators on this side of the House, I resent that strongly. Arrangements have been made by many senators to keep commitments as far away as Port Hedland in Western Australia. Some senators have already undertaken commitments and have left this place. The Government now proposes that we should suddenly change those arrangements and bring the senators back to this place in order to carry out a program that is thrust upon us by the House of Representatives. We should have been permitted to have a reasonable debate on the proposition because it concerns the position of the Senate in relation to the House of Representatives. We ought not to accede easily to the demands of the House of Representatives. If we accede on this occasion, as we did on a previous occasion, we will find that we will be sitting at the behest of the House of Representatives and not in order to carry out our own program. 
What happened this morning when we were putting that proposition was that we were gagged. If the gag is going to be applied in a situation such as that, the Government can expect that on every possible occasion we will endeavour not to assist in the passage of legislation but will resist that passage. The Government will then have to carry out its desires and use the gag and the guillotine, misuse the procedures that have been established in this place over a long period. It is all very well to talk about guillotining a Bill on the last day of sitting after a particularly long session. Perhaps even on the last occasion those of us who were party to that may have objected personally to the procedure but we went along with it. Nevertheless, it should not become an established procedure in this place, and that is what is happening today. The Government has applied the gag and prevented the Opposition from putting a case. What is to prevent us from proceeding next Tuesday with the debate on the legislation that is coming from the House of Representatives? If I recall correctly, on the previous occasion the legislation was put through the Senate hurriedly on the Friday.  Senator Cavanagh  has indicated already that that legislation has not been proclaimed. 
-The Government still has that strike with it. 
-The Government still has that industrial situation very much with it. I remind honourable senators of a cartoon that appeared in the  Age  this morning which showed the present situation quite vividly.  Mr Hamer  and  Mr Hawke  are trying to find their way out of a situation and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and  Mr Lynch  are trying to find their way into that situation. In other words, two people are endeavouring to get away from a confrontation to solve a situation and the Prime Minister and  Mr Lynch  are endeavouring to create a confrontation to exacerbate what is happening in Victoria. That is the ground work. That is the backdrop. That is the situation which the Prime Minister needs to justify an early election. He has already made up his mind apparently that there should be an election on 10 December  (Quorum formed).  I am grateful to  Senator Keeffe  for bringing into the Senate a few more Government senators because - 
SenatorGEORGES-The honourable senator has been here for sufficient time to realise that it is the responsibility of the Government to maintain the chamber. It is not our responsibility. The Opposition has been quite easy with the Government over a period of time. I recall that when we were in government we were subjected to the continual calling of quorums. We were subject to continual irritation. Our Ministers were placed under considerable pressure. It seems to me that what the Government is looking for is a return to that situation. In other words, the Government wants to make of us an Opposition that will irritate, frustrate and delay. That was not our intention. We have even gone along with the Government to assist it to maintain a program in this place. I have before me the program for the next three weeks. It is very light on. If we sought not to co-operate, the Government would have been fully engaged in maintaining its own program. Next week it hardly has a program. The proposed program for the three weeks whichI h ave in my hand does not include any Bill of substance. There is the Loan Bill that has been the subject of some gentle and quite tolerant query on our part. It was not the aggressive approach that Government senators undertook when the Loan Bill was before the Senate during the period of the Labor Government. Honourable senators opposite deferred and delayed the Bill and sought an excuse to throw out the elected government. We are merely querying certain parts of that Loan Bill. Honourable senators will remember that last night the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  allowed the Loan Bill to pass through the Senate on the understanding that certain questions would be answered. That is a quite different approach from the approach adopted by honourable senators opposite when they were in Opposition. 
The debate on the Budget Papers has been going on in a leisurely fashion. There has been no substantial legislation before the Senate. Suddenly the House of Representatives decides that it needs some urgent legislation which is similar to previous legislation which the Government did not proclaim. It suddenly needs the legislation, and demands that the Senate should sit on Friday and that honourable senators should alter all their arrangements and commitments to pass the legislation in a hurry which, the Government says, it possibly will not proclaim anyhow.  Mr President,  I am saying to you that the Senate over which you preside is being made to look ludicrous. It is a mockery that we should be treated in this way and I am hoping that the Government will accept this as the case. However, I do not think so. The Government is in difficulty at the present time. Honourable senators opposite would like to gag what I am saying but until I sit down they will not be in a position to do so. An honourable senator opposite will endeavour to get the call and I do not doubt that he will gag this debate. If that is the way the Government wants to behave, by all means we will give it the opportunity. I might give that opportunity to the Government in a minute or I might endeavour to bring in some more honourable senators to support my case. 
-Yes, I have quite a deal to say and I am not going to deal with the legislation that is coming from the other place. After all, we have not seen it. We have heard about it. 
Has the honourable senator seen the legislation? Does she know what it is about? Does any honourable senator on the other side know what the legislation is about? 
-Well, except members of the Executive who were party to some midnight meeting last night in order to put a proposition to the House of Representatives so that it could be forced, gagged and guillotined through that House and put into this so-called House of Review. No, honourable senators opposite do not know what is in the legislation nor do they care what is in the legislation because tomorrow they will accede to the wishes of their Executive no matter what they think of so-called liberalism. 
The small T liberals might as well accept the position that the National Country Party takes which is close to totalitarianism. Its members agree that their Executive should direct them what to do and they accept that whenever they are asked to do so. But the small '1' liberals in this place are said to take another view. But they are denying - 
-We at least have accepted our position since the Australian Labor Party was formed. We make no excuses. We make no explanations. When we join our Party and work with our Party we accept that we shall abide by the decisions made, and support those decisions.  (Quorum formed).  I was saying that we have certain Party disciplines which we declare and which we have always declared. We do not say one thing and do another. The Liberals are proud of the fact that they sometimes say one thing and do another. They regard that as freedom of conscience. They claim that they have a right to a so-called conscience vote. It all depends on whether they can do it without the weight of party discipline coming down upon them. They will do it if they can get away with it. But at all other times they do exactly what we on this side do; that is, they adhere to the party requirement and to the program of the party. It would be a very sad Parliament if that were not the position. 
I am a strong believer in the two-party system. I believe in party disciplines because they are in effect the watch dog which safeguards the people and the electorate against log-rolling and wheeler-dealing on the part of groups of members or individual members. So, make no mistake, I believe in party disciplines. I am one who hesitates to encourage a senator on the other side to cross the floor. I might do it for a short term political advantage, but I do not really believe in what I am doing. I certainly would not like anyone on the other side of the chamber to endeavour to encourage me to cross the floor just for a momentary advantage. There is only one exception to that, and that is on a matter of strict conscience. In this place we have had only one such matter that I can recall, and that was the capital punishment legislation. There may have been one or two occasions on which the parties freed their members from the disciplines of the party; but on all other occasions, make no mistake about it, when we on this side see honourable senators cross the floor, even though we might have encouraged them to come across our respect for them does not increase in any shape or form. 
The motion before the Senate is that the Bill may be taken through all its stages without delay. In normal circumstances we would agree to that motion being carried and we would have the debate on the Bill at a later stage. Let us test what the Government intends to do for the rest of the day and let us test the Government's attitude to the special sitting tomorrow. Is it to be the last time that such a sitting will be thrust upon the Senate? Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  accepted that in future this shall be the procedure? Is the Senate to sit for three days a week without substantial legislation for debate, and then suddenly to have to sit an extra day while the members of the House of Representatives go about their electoral commitments? Tomorrow there will be no pairs because the Government has called off the pairs arrangement. It will have to do that for tomorrow's sitting. It has a statutory requirement that it has to meet, so I do not blame the Government. It has called off the pairs arrangement. 
-That is right; we have two senators overseas. I can understand the Government's reason. Tomorrow, because of what has been done in the other place, the Minister is forced to inconvenience all senators on the Government side. He is forcing the Opposition to inconvenience its senators, to break their appointments and commitments tomorrow; but a member of the House of Representatives is going to participate at Port Hedland in a debate on a very important question, namely, the exploitation and export of uranium. It was supposed to be- and rightly so-part of the national debate that we are undertaking so that the electorate can be enlightened on the export of uranium. I hope that the people will oppose the export of uranium. I believe that, given sufficient time, they will. Nevertheless, there is to be an all-party debate in Western Australia tomorrow.  Senator Chaney  was to take part in that, but of course he cannot go tomorrow because of the special sitting.  Senator Walsh  also was to take part in that debate, and he will go because a member of the House of Representatives will take part in that debate and that member is the only one who can keep that appointment, free of the limitations of the parliamentary program. 
Let us get it clear: If we accept without any question what the Government is proposing for tomorrow, then it will be done again and again. All we wanted to do earlier in the piece was to express an opinion. I intended to say at that stage what I am saying now. That is what I intended to say. I intended to say: 'We are being misused. 
We are being pushed around. We ought not to be pushed around in this fashion'. What happened? The Government applied the gag. It is useless to apply the gag to me when the procedures of the Senate will allow me to speak at a later stage. They not only allow me to speak later but also encourage me to speak at greater length. The application of the gag is a foolish practice to follow. 
We have come to an understanding in this Parliament, especially in the Senate, that we can make a speech in 10 minutes much better than we can make the same speech in 30 minutes. There has been general agreement on both sides of this chamber that we should not take up all the time that is available to us; that we should say what we have to say, sit down and give somebody else an opportunity to speak. But, if the Government follows this practice of applying the gag, then we will stand up and speak for the whole hour that is available to us or for the half an hour that is available to us on days when the proceedings are broadcast. That is just wasting the valuable time of the Senate. 
-Senator Withers may like to use the word 'childish'. I would not have used the word 'childish' because in a way that is an imputation, and if you rule correctly,  Mr President  - 
-He has actually admitted that it was an imputation.  Mr President,  you know that we have a rule- I think it is Standing Order 418- which says that an honourable senator cannot make an imputation against a House of Parliament. At some stage we will have to have a discussion or debate on Standing Order 418. We have immense respect for you,  Mr President,  and we would not even consider moving a motion of dissent from your ruling; nevertheless, at some stage or other we will have to have a look at Standing Order 418 in order to understand clearly what is an imputation against a House of Parliament, what is an imputation against a government and what is an imputation against a member of the other place. 
The  President  or the  Chairman  of Committees may call the attention of the Senate or the Committee, as the case may be, to continued irrelevance or tedious repetition . . . 
I submit that the honourable senator is simply, in a tedious repetitive fashion, threatening a filibuster on this motion. I suggest that, at great cost but no worth to the community in the process of the printing of  Hansard,  he is filling the  Hansard  record with repetition and irrelevancies. 
I am sorry to intrude at this stage, but I will be brief. I would like formally to ask in the Committee stage the question that I asked during a brief intervention that I was forced to make to enable  Senator Douglas  McClelland to come into the chamber. It is mildly relevant. If it is not completely relevant, perhaps you,  Mr Chairman,  should rule that I ought not to be putting it. As it is mildly relevant, let me put it and then you can decide for me. I ask that the Government give consideration to amending the provisions relating to disallowance of determinations made by the Remuneration and Allowances Tribunal to enable the Senate to move to disallow part of a determination, not the whole of the determination. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave-  Mr President,  I thank you for the information that we will be hearing the news over the reinforcement system. Could you make some approach to those who control the music which is played over the system to have it upgraded from the type of music which one hears at airports and in other places? 
-It is not even at that level. Seriously,  Mr President,  would you approach those concerned to see whether the standard of music can be improved? 
-by leave- I must express concern- possibly this concern has exercised the minds of other honourable senators and of members of Parliament- that the 
Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence should have embarked upon an inquiry which is selective. I do not object to an investigation into the subject of human rights providing the investigation relates to the United Nations Declaration and is not selective. I have no objection to the investigation covering the Soviet Union providing it is also- and this is an argument which has been put quite often by honourable senators on the Government side- an investigation of human rights in a number of other countries. I know that one's mind begins to boggle when one endeavours to limit the scope of my proposition because where does the violation of human rights end? Do we commence with the Soviet Union and proceed right across Eastern Europe? Do we go down to the Mediterranean? Do we go to India, Indonesia, the Philippines, South America - 
-I was about to come to Queensland as my final remark.  Senator Hall  anticipated my thoughts. We have come to the stage in Australia when we would have to consider what our own position is before we begin to consider the position of humans in Rhodesia and South Africa because even we neglect the conditions of humans, both black and white, in Queensland. I was led into those remarks by  Senator Hall.  Without his interruption I might have mentioned Queensland only and not been lead to further comments. 
I return to the seriousness of the proposition which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack puts. In other words our Committee is now to engage in an investigation of human rights in the Soviet Union in particular. I caution against it because we might in some way expose our own position at the same time. I would prefer that the investigation be not selective. I, like  Senator Missen,  belong to Amnesty International. I am the patron of Amnesty International in Queensland. From time to time we present reports. For a period we may seem to be concentrating on the problems of human rights and political repression in Eastern European countries and in the Soviet Union. But Amnesty International makes a point of clearly investigating the problem in a range of countries. Unless our Committee quickly moves away from a selective investigation to an overall investigation, it could be open to criticism.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has indicated how difficult the Committee's task will be. He indicated how difficult it will be to investigate the problem in the area he has mentioned. But it may not be as difficult if the investigation covers a number of countries rather than just one. We must consider the position of our country in relation to the Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China and many other nations. We must consider our relations with them. The Committee, I fear, if its investigation is as selective as has been indicated, will have to tread very carefully indeed. 
The Opposition does not present any contra argument to the motion. We support the proposition. We have made an assessment of the effect of the redistribution proposals in relation to Queensland. Naturally we have looked very closely at the figures. We have gone back over a period of years to see what the result is likely to be for the Australian Labor Party. We have seen that if the vote for the Labor Party in 1972 were to be again the vote for it in the forthcoming election the Labor Party would win 10 of the 19 seats, which would not be an unreasonable result in the circumstances. According to the 1974 vote the Labor Party would win six seats. Of course, if the vote at the confused election that occurred in 1975 were repeated in 1977 the Labor Party would win only one seat. 
We could go into considerable argument and analysis and say that, even at the best, the redistribution would give the Labor Party 10 of the 1 9 seats and that the Labor Party appears to be at a disadvantage. However, looking at the manner in which the redistribution has been carried out and taking into account the fact that the distribution commissioners have kept to the original pattern of having three large country divisions, including the very large division of Kennedy, it is very difficult to see how the distribution commissioners could have come up with a substantially different result. My Party had proposed that the electorates of Maranoa and Kennedy be combined to give one great western electorate, allowing the coastal and provincial districts to be redistributed in proximity to the settled areas of the coast. We believe that that would have given a much more even distribution of the populations within the electorates. Nevertheless one can accept the Federal redistribution in Queensland as being far more fair than the State redistribution. For that reason, I commend the commissioners. It is up to the parties concerned to convince the future commissioners that there ought to be some variation in and some difference of approach to the large country electorates so that the provincial and coastal electorates are not disadvantaged. With those remarks, I commend the motion. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement on the statement made by  Senator Wood. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement. 

 -Mr President, I accept that interjections are disorderly, and I suppose that I am one who has interjected constantly in this place, although I hope at the right time. However, I must say that, when Ministers answering questions become highly provocative, and deliberately so, then the Senate falls into disarray and interjections become more frequent. If I have upset you by my constant interjections on the Minister, I apologise; but surely responsibilitymustrestwithMinisterswhentheyanswer questionsinthewaythatSenatorCarrickhasjust done. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
-I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted: debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I move: That the ruling of the  President  be dissented from. 

 Senator Georges 
 having submitted his motion in writing- 

On the motion of dissent from your ruling, in view of your comments I believe the reasonable thing for me to do is to withdraw the motion. I now seek leave to do so. 
Motion- by leave- withdrawn. 

 -Mr President, I think you can appreciate my feelings and my deep reluctance about having to move such a motion, but it seemed to me in the circumstances to be the only way in which I could put to you a case concerning your direction to  Senator McLaren  to withdraw certain remarks. I think it is an extreme motion to put to the Senate. I believe that there must be some way in the future whereby we can come to some sort of debate or discussion on a direction to an honourable senator to withdraw without having to move a motion of dissent from a ruling. However, having done so, I must persist with it. I refer to Standing Order 417, which reads: 
No  Senator shall  use the name of  Her  Majesty or of  Her  representative in this Commonwealth disrespectfully in Debate, nor for the purpose of influencing the Senate in its deliberations. 
I should think that Standing Order 4 1 7 is built on the word 'disrespectfully'. I would say that  Senator McLaren  put a proposition, and made a statement and expressed an opinion without disrespect. He was putting a case in a debate that is relevant to the office of Governor-General. It is difficult in a debate such as this one to make a case without referring to the institution of Governor-General and the person who holds the position of Governor-General. I make the point,  Mr President,  that your rulings in regard to the institution of Governor-General in this place have been so severe that they have placed this Parliament and this House in a secondary position to the Governor-General himself or the institution of Governor-General. Surely that is not your intention and should not have been your intention. But your ruling today does that and that exactly. It limits gravely the ability of an honourable senator to express an opinion about the institution of Governor-General and the Governor-General himself. 
I should have thought that what  Senator McLaren  said was not disrespectful. Perhaps he could have corrected his position by saying: With respect, I give yon this opinion . . .'. Would that have corrected the situation? If that is the case, all he needed to have said was: 'With respect to the institution of Governor-General, I wish to make this point . . .'. I cannot for the life of me see how we can continue to operate in this Parliament if we are going to be faced with a ruling on or interpretation of Standing Order 417 which prevents anyone in this place from making criticism of the Governor-General or the institution of Governor-General. Supposing we were to enter into a debate in this chamber on whether we should have a republic. As far as I am concerned it is immaterial whether we have a  President  or a Governor-General. In a debate on that issue we would have to make certain criticism which, by the nature of your very ruling on this occasion and other occasions, would be deemed to be disrespectful under Standing Order 417. 

 Mr President, I merely ask you to consider that the Senate's position in relation to the institution of Governor-General must be protected. We should have the right to make respectful criticism in this Chamber of the Governor-General, of any action of the Governor-General or of any action of the household of Governor-General without suddenly being brought to a halt. On a number of occasions we have been brought to a halt by your rulings. I am suggesting in this case that you ought to reconsider the matter. I believe that your request to  Senator McLaren  is one that contains too severe an interpretation of Standing Order 4 17. 
One thing we can be certain of is that we will miss  Senator Wright  when he has gone from the Senate if only because of the delightful sequence of comment that occasionally he produces. 
We often disagree with the honourable senator but not with his manner or method of delivery, and tonight has been no exception. Of course, I do not agree, generally speaking, with what he has said. Let us examine what the Committee has done. After investigating a substantial area of expenditure it has come forward with three recommendations which, I would imagine, do not stand up to scrutiny. The criticism ofthe growing use of computers, where there is no apparent decrease in the number of persons employed, seems to me to call for chalenge I thought the reason we were introducing computers and improved technology into the work situation was to ease the burden on man and not to increase it. 
-We have been accused of being Luddites for opposing the extensive use of uranium and the development of certain technology in that direction, so I am on rather flimsy ground if I tend to agree with the honourable senator too greatly on that. Nevertheless, I submit that the proper use of advanced technology is to ease the burden of human kind, not to throw people on to the unemployment market. We need to change our society radically and the conditions under which we labour before we begin saying: 'There does not seem to be any apparent decrease in the number of persons employed, therefore computers should be used less rather than more'. 
I would agree that in this country computer systems have been oversold, in many cases having been bought after they become obsolete overseas. Some of our departments have gone too quickly into the use of computers without first investigating advances in that particular technology. But I would resist the criticism of the growing use of the computers where there is no apparent decrease in the number of persons employed. 
I am prepared to be cantankerous also about the next recommendation. Surely, the environment in which people work is one that we should improve, that we should be concerned about. If it is found necessary to place paintings on a wall, to hire paintings, to lease paintings or rotate them within a work place, that is well and good as far as I am concerned. If pot plants are necessary and we cannot afford to buy them and look after them, if it is cheaper to hire them, we should do so. It does not seem to be reasonable that in view of the vast expenditure upon this group of de- partments we should be over-critical about the beautification of the work place.  Senator Wright  would agree with that. He said that if we look after the pennies the pounds will look after themselves. My father used to tell me that exactly. There has been such inflation under this Governmentforget about the previous one- that even the kids are saying now 'Keep the change'. They have gone away from our philosophy of looking after the pence and the pounds will look after themselves. I am reminded of the shopkeeper who used to collect bits of string and tie them together. He showed extreme caution in the use of his material, and perhaps in due course prospered. 
On behalf of  Senator Ryan,  I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That evening college students in the Australian Capital Territory feel that because classes are closing at the end of October, they will be disadvantaged when competing against New South Wales students for their higher school certificate. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should request the Minister that he ensure that evening college classes will be continued into mid-November. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Perhaps we need to move quickly on it, but the question that now arises is: Did the Commonwealth come to an arrangement with a plaintiff concerning electoral legislation, arrive at a settlement concerning which we are to have no knowledge- merely to rid itself of an embarrassing case that was then before the court. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that the Australian Wool Corporation sold 20,000 bales of wool out of Flushing during the last two weeks without including the cost of freight from Australia to Flushing? Who was responsible for that extraordinary decision? Did it not result in a loss to the Wool Corporation of some $600,000? Further, did it not result in a loss of confidence which has led to a further fall in the price of wool in Australia? Is it not a fact that this decision effectively undermined the reserve price for wool? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. As it concerns animal quarantine I think it might also interest the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it correct that there has been an outbreak of equine virus disease, and that the disease has been found in Australia? Is it correct that senior veterinarians have expressed concern that quarantine procedures are inadequate and that horses imported from Ireland in particular are carrying the disease not previously found in Australia? If this is correct, what action does the Australian Government propose to take to tighten quarantine procedures? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
It is a particularly interesting paper. It is the first report of the Australian Institute of Marine Science. If it concerns the Institute at Townsville it is an important paper and I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the reports. 
The second report presented by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory is of importance not only to the city of Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory. It is a report which may lead to improvements in waste disposal in other centres in Australia. The Opposition has a very strong interest in the subject matter. For that reason I seek leave to continue my remarks to enable a further debate on the report. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In so moving, may I endorse the comments made by  Senator Messner  concerning the staff of the Committee, also his complimentary remarks concerning the contribution of  Mr Crean  to the Committee which I consider to be one of the most important of the Parliament. 
We consider the report of the Committee to be of such value to the Senate that it would be of assistance to all honourable senators to have access to it when it is tabled. I do not know what the procedures are, but would like the Senate to consider that, because of the very contentious matters which are dealt with therein, honourable senators be given access to the report so they may take it up at once, as I am doing now- not so as to enter into any large-scale debate, but there may be one or two references, comments and recommendations that are of such value that they should be debated when the report is tabled. I believe a tabled document is not circulated, as such, but the work of the Committee is so important and its report is received with such interest that perhaps copies of the report could be made available when it is being brought down. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I wish to express briefly a concern that has nothing to do with the purpose of the motion but relates to the difficulty experienced by the Transport Office of the Senate and the Opposition Whip in making travel arrangements as a result of the change in program. I believe that whoever is responsible for these matters should approach the airlines to ensure that places on nights are available for members of the Parliament when they wish to depart from Canberra. There seems to be an overload on certain days of the week, as a result of which citizens are placed at a disadvantage. They seem unable to make short-term arrangements for leaving Canberra because insufficient flights are made available on specific days. When the Senate changes its program to include a sitting on Friday, or for that matter Monday or some other time when it normally does not sit, the airlines find themselves in a worse position- to the even greater disadvantage of Canberra 's citizens. 
Those who have to arrange travel for senators have extreme difficulty in changing bookings. For instance, today the Opposition finds its numbers down because, earlier, arrangements had been made to leave Canberra this morning or this afternoon. We are not in a position to change those arrangements because alternative flights are not available, and the existing numbers of seats are insufficient. I am beginning to believe that this places unnecessary pressure on those officers who serve us so well in the transport field, pressure that we do not indeed wish to put on them. The pressure is intensified by the airlines saying, 'You cannot change the arrangements.' 
Although members of Parliament ought not to be treated differently from other citizens, there  are times when parliamentary business must take precedence and thus the travel requirements of members also. It becomes difficult to make arrangements for change when a member finds that this may mean he will be delayed in returning to his home by at least 24 hours. I suggest to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport that the airlines be asked to make special arrangements- if necessary having been previously advised- to ensure that the business of the Parliament is not interfered with and that the convenience of members is given some sort of priority on special and extra sitting days. 
I support the comments of my colleagues. The serious problem that we face is that we have not had an opportunity to look at the legislation because it has come through rather suddenly. The legislation is intended to deal with an emergency situation which, as both  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Mulvihill  have said, arose out of the unnecessary haste required to get through a redistribution in time for a December election. All the indicators were there. The Opposition asked the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  about the time that the Commonwealth Electoral Officer would require following a redistribution to put his organisation into the sort of shape necessary to cope with an election. Those questions were asked as long ago as February of this year, and  Senator Withers  indicated that the nature of the timetable was such that it would lead to an election early in 1978. It is obvious that even at that time  Senator Withers,  as the Minister responsible for the Department covering electoral officers, realised that it would take at least until early 1978 for the Chief Electoral Officer to complete the reorganisation necessary to carry out a very complex task, involving changing the rolls, setting up new polling places, all the paraphernalia that is necessary for an election. 
When it is realised that we have had four elections in six years, including double dissolutions, one can understand the tremendous responsibility and the enormous amount of work that is placed upon these officers.  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said that they are underpaid. 
Not only are they underpaid but also they are under considerable strain. It is about dme that the Department of Administrative Services conducted a survey covering a number of years to find out how many returning officers have retired early through illness or have died on the job, how many electoral officers have suffered heart attacks, how many have died from heart attacks, and how many have sought early retirement because of stress. Some time ago figures were given to me by an electoral officer in Queensland relating to a very tight election contest that led to counting going on for about a fortnight afterwards. I am not talking about a Senate election but about one of the House of Representatives elections. That man gave me some figures which seemed to indicate that the strain being placed on electoral officers throughout the Commonwealth was excessive, cruel and inhuman. As if to give added weight to that man's argument, subsequently he had to seek early retirement because of illness. This is not the sort of situation we should allow to continue. These are not the sorts of conditions which we should allow to prevail. 
I take the opportunity at this stage of the BUI to ask the Minister for Administrative Services to make a survey or an investigation into what I am saying because he will find support for what I am saying. He should make a determined approach to the Public Service Board about the matter. Electoral officers carry out the most important function in a democratic system in relation to the procedure for an election. For those reasons those who carry out those procedures must be held in high regard. Their conditions and the staffing of their offices must be substantial enough to see that the rolls are kept correctly, that sufficient locality or habitation tests are taken from time to time and it should not be a spare time job as it is now. It should be a continuing process in order to protect the democratic process. I emphasise that. 
I believe honourable senators will accept that this work is important. But what has happened as a result of pressure placed upon these officers? An error has occurred because of the pressure placed upon the people concerned. This error has to be quickly corrected in case there be a challenge which could lead to some invalidity of the redistribution in New South Wales. The error is minor but the consequences of it are substantial. As  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said, if this legislation does not go through today there could be a successful approach to a court to prevent the election taking place in New South Wales on the redistributed electorates. So the consequences are substantial. I now find that I agree with what 

 Senator Douglas McClelland has said. If the redistribution were to be found to be in doubt and if some injunction were granted against it we would have an election at large in New South Wales. I am told that an election at large would be held under rules brought down - 
-The rules are not provided for in the present Act and apparently we would be completely at the mercy of the Minister for Administrative Services. I know he is essentially a fair man. I know that irony cannot be recorded in  Hansard  and that my words will be read as I said them without the inflection in my voice. But accepting that the Minister is essentially a fair man he would find it very difficult to set up a rule for an election in New South Wales without being influenced by his politics and ideological philosophy. We would find ourselves at considerable disadvantage in New South Wales. 
-The National Country Party of Australia ought to be very careful because it could be wiped out with one stroke of the pen and by one simple rule which the quick and rather devious mind of  Senator Withers  could grasp. He claims he was one of the architects of the various steps taken to obtain the dismissal of an elected government. He is proud of that. He says that his was one of the minds which applied itself to the various steps which led to that infamous deed. If he is capable of doing that to the disadvantage of the citizens of Australia, how much more would he be capable of setting up such rules which would not only disadvantage the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales but also would wipe out the National Country Party of Australia in New South Wales. The second part of that proposition appeals to me somewhat so honourable senators can understand that I could not be trusted either to draw up rules for an election at large. I would be influenced by my political bias and by constant reminders of what was done to the Labor Party in the past. In other words I would do to my political opponents what they successfully did to my party in 1975 when it was the government to which I belonged. 
Coming from this legislation there is a need for someone to anticipate the day when an election at large has to be held. Sooner or later that will be bound to happen. Practically everything has happened to us m the past 10 years in this place. We have had a double dissolution. We have had an elected government dismissed. We have had a Governor-General brought under challenge. We have seen all sorts of things occur in this place. It is possible that even in our time there could be an election at large. I suggest to the Minister for Aministrative Services that he should promptly look at this possibility and draw up the necessary rules which he may seek to devise. He should bring them into Parliament for debate. I think he should take that suggestion on board. 
As a Queenslander I was attracted to the debate in the other place. I do not necessarily accept what the honourable member for Lilley,  Mr Kevin  Cairns, said. I was interested because I come from Queensland and I have heard  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  on various occasions move from position to position. I have been the victim of some of his most oppressive Acts. I do not mean that the Premier of Queensland is oppressive. I merely say that his Acts are oppressive. Anyone who puts both those remarks together and says that I am in conflict with Standing Order 418 is incorrect. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)- Senator Georges,  I took notice of the language you used. You are in order. 
-They are oppressive Acts. He passed through the Parliament within 12 hours an Act which prevented him from appearing in a court of law but he expects everyone else to do so. He makes certain that the incidents which occur lead to that result. He has brought down a redistribution which disadvantages the Liberal Party far more effectively than it does the Labor Party in Queensland. When he can do those sorts of things in Queensland one questions what happens through the various institutions set up by Queensland. We have always considered Australian government institutions to be above reproach. Therefore I look with some alarm at the statement made by  Mr Kevin  Cairns. He stated: 
I have serious doubts as to the honesty of one of the redistributions that has occurred in Australia. As I have indicated before, I am of a mind that the redistribution in Queensland was a dishonest redistribution. 
-That was said on 3 November 1977- last night. He commenced speaking at 10.17 p.m. He continued: lam certainly of a mind that section 2 1 of the Act was not adhered to in that redistribution. To put it bluntly, I believe that some cheating went on. I am convinced that the Chief Distribution Commissioner in that State,  Mr Coleman,  should be thoroughly ashamed of what went on in that redistribution. My reason for so believing is quite simple: 
Something occurred between the first publication of maps and the second publication of maps which was not even suggested in any objection or submission or proposition put to the commissioners. They got a message from on high, perhaps by way of a telephone call. But they made a significant change in names such as has not occurred before in redistributions that have been conducted under the present system. 
I have raised this matter to attract the attention of the responsible Minister to those remarks. What  Mr Kevin  Cairns is saying is that one of the Distribution Commissioners,  Mr Coleman,  is dishonest.  Mr Coleman  is the Australian Electoral Officer for Queensland and the Minister, therefore, has a responsibility here to refute those remarks. What  Mr Cairns  is saying is that there was a switch in names which benefited  Mr Eric  Robinson. What  Mr Kevin  Cairns is saying by inference is that  Mr Coleman  is a friend of  Mr Eric  Robinson and something took place which was to the advantage of  Mr Eric  Robinson. 
I did not make the charge;  Mr Kevin  Cairns made the charge. A change of names did take place. An extra electorate was added in Queensland giving that State 19 electorates in all. The extra electorate announced in the first redistribution was called Gold Coast. Because the electorate of Mcpherson was substantially over quota it was cut in two to create the extra electorate of Gold Coast. As  Mr Kevin  Cairns said, without any approaches to the Commissioners and without any objections being lodged the name Gold Coast was changed to McPherson. In other words, the name of the safer conservative seat of Gold Coast was changed to McPherson so that  Mr Eric  Robinson could stand virtually for his own seat of McPherson which had been shifted to the safer conservative area. To facilitate that the name McPherson had to be changed to Fadden. So there was the change of names by some arrangement, suggested by  Mr Kevin  Cairns as a call from on high, which advantaged  Mr Eric  Robinson. It was said that an agreement was reached between  Mr Eric  Robinson and  Mr Hinze  who is the National Party member for the State seat of South Coast. This is a charge of minor corruption, but it is a charge that a Minister of the Australian Government arranged with a National Party Minister in the State Government to have the names of electorates changed so that  Mr Eric  Robinson would escape challenge by the National Party. In other words,  Mr Eric  Robinson, because of a change in name of an electorate, will be the retiring member for the new seat of McPherson. 
-That is what  Mr Kevin  Cairns is saying. I am saying it is a charge of rather minor corruption but what he is accusing  Mr Coleman  of is dishonesty. I do not doubt that there were consultations between  Mr Hinze  and  Mr Eric  Robinson for their own protection because the information that is coming forward suggests that  Mr Hinze  said*. 'If you stand for your own seat of McPherson we will not challenge you but if you stand for the Gold Coast certainly you will be challenged by a National Party man. If you agree to go along with that proposition make sure that I am not challenged m the seat of South Coast'. It is all pretty idle chatter but at the bottom of it is an arrangement which  Mr Kevin  Cairns claims is dishonest, an arrangement which involves the Australian Electoral Officer for Queensland who  Mr Kevin  Cairns says is dishonest. For that reason I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Why were the changes made? Why was there the original redistribution which involved the cutting up of the electorate of McPherson in order to create the extra electorate? Why was it named firstly the Gold Coast, the obvious name for it, and the remaining more conservative rural National Party-type part named McPherson? Why should there suddenly be a change? Is there truth in what  Mr Kevin  Cairns said and, if there is, why is there not an investigation to find out whether  Mr Coleman  showed bias to  Mr Eric  Robinson following representations by  Mr Eric  Robinson? 
Let me return to the untidy way in which this redistribution has proceeded in New South Wales and which has led to the amendment. I am concerned about the claim made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland that certain safeguards which were thought to be of a permanent nature are being removed from the existing legislation. If the Minister responds to requests now it possibly will avoid my participation at the Committee stage. Are the amendments which are proposed by the Government of a nature that may affect the situation in future? The Minister nods his head but it would be far better if he answered my question at the right time so that it is in the record. We go along with this legislation so that the election which has been decided on can proceed. There can be no doubt that we would have some misgivings about an election at large, and those misgivings ought to be removed by the Minister suggesting that he could antici- pate some future problem arising and he will ave his officers look at the situation now.  Senator Douglas  McClelland has indicated that the 
Opposition will be moving an amendment, so I have nothing further to say. 
I take the opportunity to speak on the third reading. Because of time constraints and the fact that the Opposition had three speakers listed, I did not take the opportunity to enter into the debate during the second reading stage. However, I want to make quite clear my position on this matter of the need for Queensland to be a mendicant State. It has been my view for quite some time that it is not necessary for Queensland to remain in the position of being a mendicant State, having to come before this Parliament year after year seeking additional money through the Grants Commission. That is not necessary because there are many ways in which Queensland could adjust its financial arrangements, adjust its taxation, in order to remove itself from the position of being a mendicant State. I think it is a disgrace that Queensland should remain in such a position. The royalties that could be raised on mineral resources are substantial, but the Queensland Government, under  Mr BjelkePetersen,  has not taken advantage of that avenue for the collection of revenue; nor has the Queensland Government resisted the decision of the Commonwealth Government to remove the excise on coal. I thought that a reasonable means by which the Commonwealth as a whole and Queensland in particular could benefit from increased revenue was to place a levy on the production of coal so that no State could sell out another State. That is the only way to put it. There are ways in which money can be raised. In reducing that levy, the Commonwealth Government has removed one way in which moneys could be gathered to dispense with the need for Queensland to be a mendicant State. 
Freedom of expression and freedom of association have been put in some doubt in Queensland. It is the responsibility of this Government and the Australian Parliament to see that not one State in the Commonwealth limits in any way freedom of expression and freedom of association.  Senator Carrick  sought to make a comparison between Labor's attitude in Queensland and the attitude of people in Canberra whom he says we support. The Williamsburg Conference is a closed conference. It should be an open conference. Its deliberations should be clear and open. There is no place in this country for a closed conference of this sort, which will debate in private the nature of the paper that will subsequently be released. It would be wise for us to frown upon such a conference, and we should not allow ourselves to be placed in a position where young radical protesters have to take a stand on our behalf in the defence of freedom of expression and communication. 
I commented by way of interjection to the Minister that the Australian National University had no need to move away from its decision that the conference should be held at the University. In order to remove the criticism, it should have asked that the Conference be open. Even our political parties now hold all their conferences in the open. Having reached that decision, surely we should not allow a conference with participants from a variety of places around the world to be held in Australia behind closed doors. I make those brief remarks on the third reading of this money Bill in order to make my position clear. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a third time. 
The problem of homeless people has exercised the concern of the Senate for some time. The speech made by  Senator Grimes  covered very effectively the concern we all share that a progressive program of assistance for these people should be continued. The Opposition's objection is not to the extension but to the fact that the extension is for only one year- that a sudden election thrust upon the Government the need to extend the program for one year. It is a stop gap arrangement. Investigations have been carried out and the knowledge necessary to extend and reinforce the program is available. It is quite unfair for  Senator Baume  to say that the Opposition is objecting to the extension, or that it is objecting to what the Government is doing through that extension. Our objection is that the extension is not sufficient to correct a very serious and growing problem in the community. 

 Senator Baume has said that more money is to be made available, but I do not think he has had experience of what is happening in the community. 
-That is not what is happening. One needs merely to spend a little time in the city of Brisbane, which is my area of operation, to realise that the problem is on the increase, and for a variety of reasons. If the problem is on the increase, then support also should be on the increase. I take it that a salvage program is an emergency program. Inherent in the word 'salvage' is the idea that there is an emergent need. We just are not facing up to the problem. We are not considering it as an emergent need. During a recent search in Brisbane for a criminal who had been released prematurely the police unearthed new places used by homeless men to survive the nights. Tunnels under schools that had not been used since the war, as well as old flour mills, were being used. In every district in Brisbane there were places where homeless people had found refuge. I have no doubt that the problem in Brisbane is very much on the increase, and I do not doubt that in the southern capitals, which are colder in the winter, the problem is even more severe. 
The Government must give urgent consideration to increasing the funds available, without restricting the necessary funds because of budgetary requirements. Every now and again the Government trots out 'budgetary requirements' and says that it cannot do things because of certain budgetary limitations. This is a case in which budgetary limitations should not be allowed to operate. The people with whom we are dealing are not clients; they are human beings. I think  Senator Baume  would accept that the word 'client' is merely a technical term. We are dealing with human beings, and the problem is increasing savagely because of economic conditions. I will not go into the reasons for that; nor will I lay the blame on the Government at the moment. There will be plenty of opportunity, over the next two days and perhaps during the election campaign, to point out the errors of the Government in its approach to the economic problems that the nation faces. A variety of decisions made by the Government have led to an increased need for assistance for homeless people, and it is quite odd that money does not appear to be available. According to  Senator Baume,  the money that has been made available is sufficient, but the problem is on the increase. The available money has to be related to the increased problem, and it does not measure up. 
Let me refer to just one example in Brisbane. I make a plea to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on behalf of a small club in Brisbane called the 139 Club. Homeless men gather at that club during the day for recreational and leisure assistance. The club is doing a very worth while job, but it has what I would call a visual pollution problem. People object to having the substantial numbers of club members within their building, and the 139 Club has come under considerable pressure. It was served with a notice of eviction, but in spite of the efforts that were made it was impossible to find alternative accommodation within the means of the organising committee supervising the club. 
Through the Brisbane City Council we were able to offer premises in Roma Street and on the south side, but they were of such substantial size that the amount of money needed to establish them in order to carry out the work of the club was beyond the scope of the organising committee, which consists mainly of the men themselves. It seems to me to be extraordinary that the 139 Club is seeking financial assistance but is unable to obtain anything beyond payment of half the salary of a social worker, lt might as well get nothing because if it cannot find the other half of the salary the gesture is merely an empty one. Unless there has been some change since the matter was brought to my attention, the social worker is providing only a limited period of support, and that support is only half of what is required. If my representations assist in changing that situation for one group then I think we will have achieved something. 
I believe that this sort of assistance should be available to the many groups that exist in Australia and are in need of support. I believe also that the Government does provide rental for the premises of the club and possibly would be prepared to pay an increased rental if suitable premises were found. But the main need of such a group is for skilled people- not people who are skilled academically, but people who are skilled through experience and who can become the anchor for such a group. Those people ought not to have to make great personal sacrifices of their time and effort in order to assist society to assist homeless people. The approach to the problem appears to be this: Homeless people suffer their condition because of their own fault; homeless people suffer their condition because they are too fond of or are addicted to alcohol. But the problem is not that so much as one of economic stress and need which may later lead to an alcoholic state. We are endeavouring to hide the problem instead of solving it. 
I cannot approach this problem with the same skill and experience as Senators Grimes and Baume have done. I can merely give some rather emotive support for the need to do something more than extend the program by one year at the present level. I express the hope that the extension of the year is not considered necessary merely because we are about to have an election. It may be that Labor will be successful in that election. Judging from a result in Victoria I trust that the Australian Labor Party will confound the critics and return to Government within the memory of its own mistakes. That is a great need which the Opposition has. No Opposition should remain- as has the Opposition in Queensland -in opposition for 20 years. I think that is a corruption of the democratic system. We ought to endeavour to solve that problem in order to make governments responsive to the will of the people. I hope that the Government, after 10 December, will accept that this extension of the program for a year is merely a time during which certain substantial changes can be made to the program. 
I have not mentioned the effect of governmental neglect upon homeless women and women who may be seeking refuge. I have not mentioned the condition of many young people who are unemployed. But in some way they have been able to make their own arrangements conjointly. All I have mentioned are one or two cases of homeless men in Brisbane. It seems extraordinary that in Brisbane most of the support for homeless men comes through the watchhouse the lockups. From my recent experience I know that people are treated there in a most dehumanising way. It seems to be extraordinary that we should depend very much upon that penal type system to support homeless men in Brisbane. The attitude seems to be: Lock them up for the night, have the Salvation Army feed them in the morning, let them out for a bit of sun during the day and lock them up again at night. That dehumanises the people concerned and it also dehumanises those who have to supervise that type of system. 
The program of support for homeless people, if it were pitched at the level the Opposition is suggesting, would remove many of the unhappy situations which arise night after night in many of our cities. The amount we are boasting about is $8. 4m of which a substantial amount has been committed. I do not know the figure exactly but it does not seem to me that much more will be provided in the next 12 months unless there is a change and another decision is made to allocate more money. Although this is a salvage operation, surely we ought to be looking at the problem from another direction. 
Yes, it is only a partial answer. But we have to tackle the problem from a different direction. Since so many people are being submerged at the present time we ought to be allocating a lot more. I could make all sorts of remarks. We could rip a bit off Utah Development Co. for instance, and direct it to this area. Those honourable senators who saw the television program  Four Corners  over the weekend may have changed their minds about our approach to the multinational or transnational companies. I believe the Government is suggesting that we bring in new regulations to impose the 15 per cent coal tax levy which we imposed when in Government. That could lead to a considerable amount of money being retained by the Australian Government. That amount could be directed towards this worthy cause, could it not? I can see  Senator Walters  looking at me with interest. I could tell her how to get another $ 100m. One way to get another $ 1 00m is by not phasing out that coal levy. That would give us a considerable amount of money. There are dozens of ways. 
-But the Government is throwing out the baby with the bath water. It ought to be saying: 'Yes, there are some difficulties with smaller coal companies, the ones that have to dig deep to get their coal. There is a disadvantage to them'. But surely there is a means of exempting those companies from the levy by some tax exemption. We certainly should not let Utah off the hook to the extent of many millions of dollars. As I say, a simple re-arrangement of finance would enable the Government to get the funds which it requires to meet this program which all honourable senators admit is a worthy program. But if we provide only half of what is required, that half could be wasted. I refer again to that small club. If the Government provides only half the wages of a social worker that club will not get a social worker who is equipped to understand the problem. So we either go the whole way or we risk losing the benefits by not providing enough. In the closing stages of the Parliament it is impossible for honourable senators to engage in an in depth debate on a matter of this kind. I think sufficient has been said. We offer no opposition for the reasons put so well by  Senator Grimes.  We rebut what  Senator Baume  said when being critical of the Opposition. We do not accept his analysis of the figures. Of course, we support our own figures. We do not have any further time to allow other people to test those figures for us. 
I would like to refer again to the 139 Club. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  gave the Senate some information on this subject when he replied to the second reading debate. Could the Minister explain to me- I know the difficulties he is in but as he is representing the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  perhaps he could get some advice- why it is that only half of the salary of the social worked is being paid? Why cannot the full amount be paid so that the services of this person can be maintained with some continuity? I know that there is a rent subsidy and I know that some furniture has been provided. But the most important person is the person, male or female, who supports and guides the program. Admittedly in this case the men do a great deal for the organisation which is part of, shall we say, the salvage program. I do not want to use the word 'petty' in this context because that might cause some sort of confrontation and it is a bit late for that. But why has the decision been made? 
I find all sorts of words coming to my mind when I think that only half of the salary is paid by the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth Government has placed a responsibility on the State Government to assist. Although that Government may give a little, I doubt whether it will contribute anything toward the cost of paying the salary of a social worker. The Brisbane City Council or the local authority has many responsibilities. If it decides to support the 139 Club in particular, it would find itself involved in an area for which the Commonwealth and the State have a responsibility. 
What is the problem? Did the Department of Social Security expect the State Government to come to the assistance of this Club? Is that the reason for paying only half the salary? If that is the reason and if the State Government fails to come to the party, will the fact that the social worker finds it uneconomic to continue mean the disbandment of this small group? After all, if this were a State responsibility the State would have to pay the social worker quite a considerable wage. If organisations of this sort are institutionalised certain industrial awards would have to be complied with and as a result the cost to the government would be considerably greater. In this situation volunteers, supported by the men are doing a worthwhile job. They do not take into account the amount of effort or the number of hours they put into their work. But even the best intentioned people- especially people who are qualified and could go elsewhere- must give up after a while if they are not properly supported. 
I make it clear to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that there are selective decisions which can be made despite the Government's budgetary contraints. 'Constraints' is the word I was looking for before. The word 'limitations' is used but that is what a constraint is- a rather severe limitation by this Government on expenditure right across the board to reduce the deficit. According to the latest figures the Government is not doing so well and had to go overseas to borrow $ 1 , 700m from Arab sources. Reprehensible! 
-Khemlani did not get off first base but the Government's friends are doing quite well out of their commission on that $ 1,700m. If I could get the information that we have been seeking about the amount of commission which has been paid on those loans, we would get a rather sharp shock but for some reason or other this subject is closed shop and we cannot get any information. All we heard about when we were in government was the amount of money we had intended to borrow, but did not borrow, and the amount of commission we were going to pay on money that we did not get. Let us get to the hard reality. The Government borrowed $ 1 , 700m in order to support a deficit. I am not arguing about it because that additional money should allow the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to make a specific decision to assist this program. The Government does not make a tariff decision applicable right across the board, the Government does not make a budget decision applicable right across the board, and that is the Government's trouble. It has put ceilings on expenditure and on staff right across the board to the disadvantage of the Department of Social Security which has twice as tough a job to do now as it had previously because of the increasing problem created by the 400,000 people who are unemployed at present. I would be having a great old time now if it were broadcast day but as I am wasting my words on empty air let me get to the point. 
-I do not read my own speeches but I am told that school teachers are using them in grammar lessons to their kids. Why can the Government not make a priority decision to help homeless people? The Government cannot attack me for making that statement simply on the basis that if it did the deficit would increase. The Government should find economies elsewhere, and in this regard I suggest the Australia Council for a start. I am no Philistine but it seems to me - 
I feel obliged to make a couple of remarks about this legislation in the Committee stage. As the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  did not reply to the excellent speech made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland on this Bill, perhaps he could bear to answer this question: If there is now only one claimant State and if we could solve the problems of that State by removing it from the claimant list, what would be the future of the Commonwealth Grants Commission? If under this great policy of federalism the States cease to be claimant States, is there a continuing need for the Commission? I think Queensland could quickly solve its problems by rearranging its finances. I said that on a previous occasion and was accused of being antiQueensland. I am not in the least antiQueensland; I am for Queensland. But it shames me somewhat to see that Queensland is still a claimant State in spite of the fact that, according to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  it is the fastest growing State in the Commonwealth. 
Of course, it is a misrepresentation.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has made an absolute misrepresentation and someone should take him to task under the trade practices legislation for doing so. We have sufficient writs at the present time. He is at the wrong end of about eight writs at the moment. But I think a case before the Trade Practices Commission might bring him back to his senses. According to certain propaganda which the coalition parties in Queensland are so falsely presenting through the media, Queensland is the fastest growing State in the Commonwealth. However, it has been noted that Western Australia is supposed to be the fastest growing State. 
Both those States have certain advantages which should enable them to remove themselves quickly from the mendicant State status. Western Australia has done so already. Queensland could do so simply. Then the Grants Commission could become redundant. I make that point because it seems to me to be so unnecessary that in this time of economic growth States should remain in that claimant state. Of course, the Government might argue that it is going to proceed with self government or statehood for the Northern Territory. If that is the policy of this Government, it might not be the policy of a government after 10 December. There might be a change of government. I again raise the hope of a change of government. It seems to be a sound hope after the results this weekend in Victoria. 
-I am not one to be kidded. I do not want to go into a second reading sort of debate on this. I merely want to attract the attention of the Minister to the fact that Queensland does not need to be a claimant State. As far as I am concerned, the simple solution to this problem is to remove Queensland from a claimant position and to rid ourselves of one more institution. 
I ask  Senator Cotton  whether he can give me immediately the answer that he has just given to the Senate because it is at variance with the information I have. 
The Opposition has spoken already on the first reading of the Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1977, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1977 and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1977. For that reason, I think that we ought to proceed to the next stage with the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 3) 1977. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
-I seek leave to make a short comment. 
I thank you,  Mr President,  for that information. I know that steps have been taken to improve the quality of music that is played over the sound reinforcement system. In fact, this morning we heard for the first time Beethoven's Eroica symphony but unfortunately the sound was distorted because the tape was run at a slow speed. In fact the music was distorted to the  pr&gt;int  where it was most disconcerting and certainly not pleasurable. However I was so upset about the quality of the recording that I saw the technician. It appears to me that in spite of the fact that there is a variety of music available and that we are to have both symphonic music as well as the other kind of music, to satisfy most tastes, we may as well have no music at all if the quality of the tapes is not improved. 
-Even rock and roll has to be played at the right speed. One cannot play rock and roll at a slow speed because if one does the reproduction would become completely distorted. I bring to the attention of the Senate that there is a problem in respect of music being played over the system. 

 - Senator Baume fears that the moratorium to assist AUS Student Travel and some airlines to trade out of their difficulties will fail. If anything is bound to make it fail it is  Senator Baume  's attacks because they put a very sensitive operation in difficulty. If he continues in this way then he will achieve what he fears- the failure of the moratorium, the failure of AUS Student Travel, and a substantial loss to Qantas Airways Ltd. I advise  Senator Baume  to reconsider his motives which, to me, still appear to be directed at AUS Student Travel and, through AUS Student Travel, to the Australian Union of Students. I suggest to  Senator Baume  that if he has a complaint to make about the Australian Union of Students he should separate it from the commercial enterprise that is endeavouring to survive. He can make whatever comments he likes about the Australian Union of Students; he can enter into that highly political area, but if he has the interests of AUS Student Travel at heart he should separate his comments from the commercial enterprise and allow it to sort out its differences and survive in the market place. 
Great stress has been placed on certain international rules and regulations, but that seems to me to run contrary to the philosophy of  Senator Baume  and his party on the ability to trade, the ability to come to an arrangement and, in the case of AUS Student Travel, the ability to serve its membership as effectively as it can. Essentially, AUS Student Travel is supposed to be a non-profit organisation making arrangements on behalf of students for lower travel rates so that they can move about, communicate and perhaps add to their knowledge. It was never intended to be a profit-making organisation. If by some arrangement with Trans-Australia Airlines it has been able to gain cheaper travel in Australia through group arrangements on behalf of its students then perhaps it expected no profit from TAA and perhaps TAA was to make only some contra arrangement in return. Contra arrangements are common in the market place. From time to time appreciation is shown even of the work of certain officials of this Parliament, and certainly air travel is given to them in recognition of their services. It might be argued that a sense of corruption is implicit in that, but a contra arrangement, provided it is open and above board, may be beneficial and acceptable. 
At this stage I should like to read into the record an answer given to me by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  who is in charge of the Department that has some concern for this area. The Senate will recall that when we debated this matter previously I incorporated a letter I had sent to the Minister seeking assistance for AUS Student Travel to come to an arrangement with Qantas and other airlines so that it could trade out of its difficulties and a worthwhile enterprise would be enabled to survive. On 7 November I received the following reply from  Senator Robert  Cotton: 
You wrote to me on 18 August 1977 seeking my assistance in resolving the problems then facing AUS Student Travel Pty Ltd. On 13 September you again raised this matter with me in a Question Without Notice. 
I appreciate the concern you have shown in this matter and I am sure you are as relieved as I am to see that the company is continuing to trade without causing any real financial hardship to student clients as it first appeared likely. 
That was the response from the Minister. I believe that the Minister has entered into the spirit of assistance in the same way as I have. This organisation has done a lot of good in assisting students to move about, both within and outside Australia, and it ought to be supported and not put under constant attack. If  Senator Baume  continues in the way that he has he will be subjected to the comment that he is doing it on behalf of certain travel agencies in this country that want a slice of AUS business; nothing more nor less than that.  Senator Baume  is entitled to do what he is doing, but the Opposition will point out to him that if he persists his motives will be exposed. I do not put that harshly at this time, I merely say that if he continues to attack AUS Student Travel he will bring about its collapse. If he brings about its collapse, he will have to accept the responsibility. 
In concluding my remarks, I should like to refer to an article that appeared in the  Bulletin  of 5 November 1977 in the section on aviation. Under the heading 'AUS still embarrassing Qantas ' the article refers to the debate that took place here and states in part: 
But the real damage to both  AUSST  and Qantas was done in the debate by  Senator Georges  (Queensland, ALP) speaking in their defence. 
-I am not saying that it was an unfair comment. I am saying that it was a reasonable comment to make in the circumstances of what I had to say. I was frank enough to say that perhaps certain arrangements were being made in the market place by airlines and travel agencies that compromised the rules of the International Air Transport Association. I am not getting away from that. I am saying that it has happened, probably is happening, and will continue to happen even after AUS Student Travel fails, if that is  Senator Baume  's intention. That is the market place and that is the way it operates. It has certain rules and regulations that are being worn down gradually by overseas decisions and overseas operations. I think that the Labor operation will cut right across the IATA regulations, which have kept air travel costs throughout the world at an artificially high level. Because they have done that it has been necessary for certain organisations, in the interests of their clients, to slip around the arrangements, and they will continue to do so. In fact, the regulations imposed upon our companies in Australia ought to be examined by the Trade Practices Commission. Surely arrangements exist here that falsely fix a price above its market level? If one believes in that sort of system then one ought to accept that in some way it operates in spite of the rules and regulations. 
I am saying that AUS Student Travel, Qantas and the other airlines can pull out of their difficulties. I was not speaking previously in defence of Qantas, I was merely making a few remarks that I thought were pertinent. If those remarks were taken to be damaging to Qantas and Qantas was embarrassed, perhaps other organisations than Qantas were embarrassed by the revelation of what goes on in general trading. Since the introduction in this House by  Senator 
Greenwood of resale price maintenance legislationI remind  Senator Baume  that it was his Government that introduced legislation outlawing resale price maintenance- complete corruption, denigration and degradation has been occurring in the market place. Unless we have orderly marketing, unless all people abide by the rules, we must expect that all people will endeavour to break the rules. Besides, if honourable senators remember correctly, during the Estimates Committee hearing when this matter was under scrutiny it was admitted by rather stony silence that it is practically impossible to impose these regulations on the industry. I repeat that I think that the airlines and the various travel agencies have come to separate arrangements.  Senator Baume  protests about that. I am saying that that is the only way that they can commercially survive in the industry today. The Department of Transport will have to fix minimum and maximum prices. The industry will have to determine that there shall be no service given below or above a certain price. That is orderly marketing. That, to a certain extent, is price fixing. Honourable senators opposite object to that situation. If they object to price fixing at both a minimum and higher level they can expect shady operations in defiance of the rules which are set down. We are going through the last two days of the present Parliament and through what I think is called a catharsis or cleaning process. I think we all try to get matters out of our system. But,  Mr President,  through you I say to  Senator Baume:  Rethink the damage you are doing in a situation where a worthwhile organisation and two fine airlines are trying to get themselves out of financial difficulties. 
-On the second reading of this Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill 1 977 1 want to raise a matter which has been of concern to me. I shall not take very long. The matter concerns the provision of frequency modulation broadcasting licences. I refer specifically to the application by the Fine Music Group in Brisbane for an FM licence. The Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  will recall a question I asked some time ago when it was obvious that a FM licence was to be granted to, I think, the University of Melbourne. During the debate on the granting of thai licence, by way of interjection I asked whether a similar licence would be granted to the Fine Music Group in Queensland. I do not know whether I am behind with my information, but it seems to me that no progress has been made with the granting of such a licence. Of course, it was understood that the licence would be granted subject to the final decisions of the Government and dependent upon its policy with respect to the allocation of licences by way of application and subsequent inquiry and appeal. 
What concerns me is that there has been no progress in this matter. No satisfaction has been given this worthwhile organisation which has endeavoured to do everything correctly by way of application to the Minister. The assurance which the Minister gave me at that time was sympathetic to this organisation's request because the Minister was a member of the committee, of which I was a member also, which made investigations and came down with recommendations on the extension of FM broadcasting. In fact, I believe that it was the inquiry by that committee which facilitated the declaration of policies by the previous Government and by the present Government to the effect that FM broadcasting should be made available as quickly as possible. I think that we put in the rider that commercial enterprises should not be excluded from this new technology. For that reason, I believe that  Senator Carrick  understood what I was getting at and responded with sympathy. However, the Department does not seem to have responded in the same way. To me it seems that there is now some discrimination towards this group. 
I take the opportunity to raise this matter in the second reading debate. Perhaps I could have raised it in the Committee stage but it is quite obvious why I am on my feet at the moment. By raising this matter at the second reading debate stage, I am saving myself the trouble of approaching the Minister. I do not need an answer at present but I should be grateful if the Minister could write to me to tell me what progress has been made, why there are delays and what the group can expect. He will realise that Brisbane needs to have as quickly as possible the same sorts of programs broadcast to its citizens as Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide have. I do not doubt that Tasmania also would be very eager to have such programs broadcast. I cannot see why the Government cannot make specific decisions in this regard subject to certain conditions which can be settled at a later stage. 
I should like to carry on for about four sentences beyond what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said. The report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, chaired by  Senator Baume,  must be taken into consideration. We should not allow this Bill to go through and give the impression that we are going to solve a drug problem by imposing increased penalties. The overall problem must be attacked at its base. The Committee which reported to. the Senate, I think, has the guidelines which ought to be followed. 
I would like to return to the trachoma program in Queensland and ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister for Health whether it is not a fact that the Premier of Queensland stated bluntly that unless the two men concerned were sacked there would be no co-operation from the Queensland Government. Is it not a fart that the Premier refused access to the Aboriginal communities on his own initiative, not that of the leaders of the communities, as suggested by  Senator Sheil?  Will the Minister take urgent steps to see that there is no discrimination against these two men at the behest of that most inhuman person from the north? 
The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has been at considerable fault in this case. He must have known that members on this side of the chamber wished to speak. 
-The list of speakers has already gone over to the Government side. 
I think  Senator Baume  had better discuss that with  Senator Chaney.  Let me put this to honourable senators clearly. The matter of speakers on these Bills was discussed yesterday.  Senator Carrick  said that there was no st of speakers and, therefore, took it that the Opposition was not prepared to enter the debate. 
-The Minister was being unfair when he said that because he was then on his feet closing the debate. How could any honourable senator on this side of the chamber possibly get to his feet to speak while  Senator Carrick  was still speaking? I want to make it clear to the Government that the arrangements have broken down today because of the procedures that have been adopted. Sessions often have come to a rather rapid and constricted close, but we have had the necessary discussion to ensure maximum debate on what the Opposition considered to be the most important of the Bills in respect of which there was to be some shortage of debating time. The Leader of the Government must accept the responsibility for what has happened today because this morning he immediately took it for granted that there could be no discussion or arrangement on the time limits for various Bills, that there could be no discussion on whether we could limit the time of speakers in the debate. We have always had this arrangement but today it is not to be the case. We came in to the Senate and immediately had steamroller tactics adopted by the Government. 
From the point of view of my position it will be difficult today to carry out any of the arrangements which were agreed to earlier in the week to enable us to rise at about 4.30 p.m. or 5 p.m. today. We realise that the Government needs to get its legislation through before the proroguing of the House of Representatives tomorrow. I am sorry to have to make these comments today. On previous occasions on these last sitting days we have been able to arrange to have as much debate as possible and still meet the requirements of the transport officers to get honourable senators away. The Opposition has moved certain amendments and I have taken this opportunity to speak in order to ensure that those who wish to speak on this Bill will be able to do so. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Employment Office areas of (a) Alderly; (b) Brisbane; (c) Chermside; (d) Fortitude Valley; (e) Indooroopilly; (f) Nundah; and (g) Redcliffe at the end of August 1975, August 1976 and August 1977. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males; and ( b ) females: ( i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Employment Office areas of (a) Alderley; (b) Brisbane; (c) Chermside; (d) Fortitude Valley; (e) Indooroopilly; (f) Nundah; and (g) Redcliffe at the end of September 1975, September 1976 and September 1977. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males; and (b) females; (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Australian Wool Corporation sell 20,000 bales of wool out of Flushing, The Netherlands, during the last two weeks without including the cost of freight from Australia to Flushing. 
Will the Corporation incur a loss of up to $600,000 on the sale of this wool. 
Is the fall in the wool market this week attributable to this section of the Corporation, which effectively undermined the reserve price. 

 -Mr President, I wish to direct a question to you concerning security measures taken yesterday. Will you at an early opportunity explain why the wishes of the Presiding Officers that no member or senator should be obstructed when entering Parliament House were not conveyed to the police who guarded the main entrance at 7 a.m? Are you aware that because of this two honourable senators were refused entry because they had no passes and were told that their belongings must be searched? Who issued the instruction that persons from the Prime Minister down would be subject to these conditions? Was it the Prime Minister? If so, will you inform the Prime Minister that the Presiding Officers and not the Executive are in charge of the building and that their instructions take precedence and will continue to take precedence over any such instruction issued by the Executive? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Finance follows from the question asked by  Senator Gietzelt.  In spite of the comforting answer given by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, something odd appears to be emerging about the computer contract. Is it a fact that, as reported this morning in the Melbourne  Sun,  in January there was a break in at the Bureau of Statistics in Canberra? Is it a fact that a filing cabinet was forced open? If so, what son of information did this cabinet contain? Specifically, did it contain any information relating to the $20m computer tender to provide for a replacement computer for the Bureau of Statistics and the Department of Trade and Resources? Was there any evidence that documents had been disturbed or removed? If this is the case, why has not this been revealed previously? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I have nothing provocative to offer tonight. It is a little late in the debate to generate heat in oneself, let alone heat in anyone else. Nevertheless, I take the opportunity firstly to commend the appointment of  Sir Zelman  Cowen as Governor-General. I do this with some weight, because  Sir Zelman  Cowen and myself were at variance for a period of time in Queensland, when he was Vice-Chancellor of the University of Queensland and there were some disturbances on the campus. He accused me of being inflammatory, and I retorted that the events were inflammatory and that perhaps he was responsible for them. Nevertheless, the appointment is a good one, and to be highly commended.  Sir Zelman  Cowen is a man of exceptional talent. We witnessed, at the opening of Parliament, a demonstration of that skill in his presentation, on behalf of the Government, of his Address. The content of that Address was questionable, but the manner of its presentation was excellent. The appointment of  Sir Zelman  Cowen, I trust, brings to an end a period of dispute which has involved that office, and concerning which much has been said. 
The persons responsible for the decision that  Sir John  Kerr made were the members of your party,  Senator. There  can be no question of the manoeuvres that took place, manoeuvres which created an impossible situation, in which the Governor-General was forced into wrongly making a decision which dismissed the elected government of the day and appointed another - 
-The honourable senator will not accept that fact, and what he says now is an example of the very thing of which I speak, and which I hope has been brought to an end- a division in, a polarisation of, the community that has been brought about by the extraordinary behaviour of Government supporters and the extraordinary decision on November 1975 on the part of the then Governor-General. I hope that is all at an end. 
I wish there were some other way to appoint a Governor-General than by decision of a Prime Minister or an Executive. It would be better if we had some other device. My own inclination, and I am indifferent really concerning its acceptance, would be to have an elective office but, since people seem to recoil from the thought of a republic, I am not prepared at this stage to press the point. I think eventually, because of needespecially if there is a repetition of the behaviour of November 1975- Australia as a whole will accept the concept of a republic, the concept of a president; but that is so far in the future that we need not be concerned about it tonight. 
Since this debate began we have witnessed some rather extraordinary events in this Parliament, and they cannot be allowed to pass without comment. I need to make that comment now. I know that we are likely to have next week a debate on the matter of security of the nation as a whole. Today there was put down a statement concerning the security of Parliament House, but I do not think I ought to let this occasion pass without making some reference to the events of last week and the extraordinary measures that were taken without consulting those primarily concerned, the members of the Parliament, to secure this place. Their wishes were not canvassed. If they had been it may have been made clear that many of us do not place out safety on such a level that we would demand that we be surrounded by security measures of the type that we witnessed last week. 
When has it been accepted that life and limb should be placed above the freedom of movement and association of the individual? Have all of use here accepted as fact that there is a need to be so protected? I very much doubt it, because I believe something basic is involved here; that we should show the necessary courage in the face of external threat of the type such as we faced last week; that we should face that threat without the overprotection of security forces, police forces and the army itself. 
I say only that the risk that innocent people may be hurt is increased by the very measures that we take to protect ourselves. I am of the opinion that during our representation in this place many of us have been under threat from a variety of directions, whether it be from a constituent who is deranged, from a group that is strongly opposed to us or from some fanatic. Some of us merely accept it, make a note of it, perhaps report it, but do not publicise it. Others amongst us feel so outraged that we make it public. My opinion is that we do a disservice if we make it public. 
When we accept public office of this sort we accept a risk, and if we accept the risk we should appear to accept that risk and not expect measures to be taken to protect us, as those measures were taken last week. Where does it end? Whom do we cease to protect? Whom do we protect and whom do we not protect? When the matter is put in the balance, is it a reasonable result to have freedom raised up if on the other side of the balance our security is weighed down by overprotection? That simile, metaphor or analogy is very mixed. 
If I were to continue in that way I would need to have the skill of  Senator Wright  in continuing an extremely long sentence, using the verbs in the right place and coming to the correct conclusion. He is a past master at it, and we regret that shortly we will not be able to listen to his long and rambling but concluded sentences. 
That is exactly right. I take that seriously and I think it is worth considering. I do not think any person's freedom should be limited for either  Senator Wright's  protection or my protection. 
-The people's freedom to move into their Parliament should not be limited. I make only this comment on the statement which will be debated next week: I hope that no expenditure is being incurred which will in any way pre-empt our decision next week when we debate the matter. I am told that already passes are being issued to attendants; yet we have not debated the matter in this place. I hope that no security measures are being taken now and no expenditure is being incurred now on certain devices which will make this place like an airport, without the matter having been debated in this place. 
-What affronted me more than anything else was to be sitting in the foyer downstairs and to see  Senator Wright  come into this place and be asked for a pass. He has been in this place for so long and a servant of this Parliament asked him for a pass before he was permitted to enter. And at the front of this Parliament at 7 a.m., two of us were told that we could not enter without a pass and without being searched. 
-It is not your door. 
-That is right. That door should be open to everyone who wishes to enter, within certain limits. That is what we have to discuss next week. That is what we have to decide upon. Let me give honourable senators a word of caution: The guns that protected this place and faced outwards faced outwards also in other parliaments- in Athens in particular- but in the end those guns turned back against the Parliament itself and against the people. We cannot set up certain measures of security without placing ourselves at the mercy of those who control security. Schemes which are set up to protect us are schemes which can be used against us. Ask the Greeks. The plan that was used to overthrow democracy in Greece was the plan that was devised by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation to protect Greece. I just issue a word of warning: Before we do anything foolish in the protection of this Parliament, let us be careful to consider where that protection leads. The limitation of our freedom to move may extend to the limitation of other people's freedom to move. 
One comment made in the course of this debate stirred me more than any other, lt was  Senator Walters  from Tasmania who first made it. I thought that perhaps  Senator Walters  did not properly understand what she was saying. But when it was reinforced by a remark made by  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate, I began to take notice. After all, as Leader of the Government in the Senate, his opinions carry considerable weight. The remark was this: 'If you have nothing to hide you have nothing to fear'. 
-'The man who has no secrets has no fears. The man who has nothing to hide has nothing to fear'. That is indefensible when one looks back to Hitler's Germany and realises that there was a race there that had nothing to hide but plenty to fear. In South Africa, a person who has perhaps a touch of negro blood has nothing to hide but he has plenty to fear if he endeavours to pass for a white man. 
-Well, Robbie Burns and I have just parted company. That is a far better way of putting what  Senator Walters  and  Senator Withers  said. But there is much to fear. Many people have little to hide but much to fear. Take the problem that exists in the State of Queensland in relation to the Special Branch. 

 Honourable senators interjecting- 

I had better not reply to any of the interjections that are being made, because something may go into the record which is not really meant. That happens from time to time. One makes an interjection, somebody responds, and lo and behold it sits there in the record although that was not intended. 
In Queensland there is much to fear. A person may have nothing to hide, but because of the existence of a Special Branch record there may be something of which he does not know but which prejudices him. It may lose him a job; it may lose him promotion. Careful consideration ought to be given before the extraordinary statement made by  Senator Withers  and  Senator Walters  is made again. I do not doubt that there are several honourable senators on the Government side who belong to Amnesty International, who will know exactly what I mean and who possibly can express it better than I can and perhaps will do so on some future occasion. 
Yes. 
-Yes. Perhaps we should have that debate as soon as possible so that we can sort out our thoughts on that. I do not really believe that  Senator Withers  would go to any great length to support what he said. He said it in a particular way. I notice that he amended it somewhat and the amendment is slightly better than what he said originally. Perhaps on some future occasion he might give us the benefit of his advice. 
There is another matter to which I must refer and which arises from the Address-in-Reply debate. I must refer to it because I believe that this is one occasion when an injustice can be exposed. It has already been mentioned but it would do no harm to reiterate the comments of colleagues on my side of the House.  Senator Button  was one who referred to it. Since  Senator Button  spoke  Senator Maunsell  has made some remarks which indicate that there needs to be further reference to it. I wish to make some comments concerning  Senator Maunsell  's remarks on the sacking from the Queensland Education Department of  Mr Bill  Wood, who was the Australian Labor Party candidate for the seat of Leichhardt. Amongst other things,  Senator Maunsell  said that  Mr Wood  had stood for Parliament on a couple of occasions. He was a member of Parliament for the seat of Cook in Queensland.  His  brother was the member for a seat in Toowoomba. The brothers are twins and sons of a very prominent member of the Labor Party and member of Parliament. Both these young men suffered defeat in the debacle- that is the only way it can be described- when the Labor Party lost many seats in Queensland. It has subsequently recovered some considerable ground, but in the 1974 election many members were defeated and Bill Wood and Peter Wood, his brother, were two of those people. 
Bill Wood has, on a number of occasions, decided to do that which we and most Australians consider to be in the best tradition of citizenship in this country, that is to seek an endorsement to stand for Parliament and perhaps to be elected to Parliament. Forget all the denigration that goes on outside and the statements that are made to pull us down. Most Australians accept that to be elected to Parliament is a great privilege and most Australians respect those who stand for Parliament. Most candidates who stand for Parliament do so in hopeless seats. Nevertheless, they carry out an accepted and commendable exercise in taking part in an election. Even though they may seek to become a member, many times they do not succeed. Bill Wood exercised his right as a citizen to stand for Parliament. Because he was a member of the Public Service he carried out the requirement of the Act. 
-He resigned from the Public Service in order to stand. As  Senator Colston  has said, that is a constitutional requirement. In doing so he expected that if he was defeated he would be reinstated. 

No, it does not, but justice does. What troubles me is that I do not think the senator's interjection reveals his true thoughts on this. He merely seeks to stir me and I think he has succeeded in doing so. To get back to the point I am making, Bill Wood is entitled to be reinstated and candidates who are defeated in an election in every other State are, to my knowledge, reinstated. But that is not so in the State of Queensland where the Premier has endorsed the principle that anyone standing for the Labor Party shall not be reinstated without the consent and decision of the Executive.  Mr BjelkePetersen  has blackballed every person who has stood for the ALP. There is no doubt about it. It happened in the case of Bill Wood and it happened in the case of Peter Wood. It happened in the case of a person called Rockett and it happened also in an indirect way to a person called Sinclair. This erodes the democratic process in Queensland. It is a continuation of a decision made previously by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to prevent people standing for local authorities. He has directed that no one should receive leave of absence from his job to attend a meeting of a local authority if he happens to be a State employee. Consider the consequences of that. It means that if a person is a State employee in Queensland he cannot stand for a council election because he will not be able to attend the meetings which are held during the day. In Queensland there are hundreds of State employees who seek to serve their community and who would like to stand for election for non-paid, voluntary jobs but who are prevented from doing so because they are refused leave of absence to attend council meetings. 
I cannot see the relevance of that and I would not have raised the matter because, personally, I do not want to prejudice those people. 
Yes, but those two young men had many friends and strong supporters. They were first class young sportsmen. I am sorry the honourable senator raised the question; I have to refer to it now that it has been raised. Justice was done to them, so why cannot justice be done to people like Bill Wood? If I can drive something home to  Senator Bonner,  what about Mick Miller? What happened to Mick Miller? He knows what happened to Mick Miller. 
-You are trying to help me? 
I am surprised. I had the opposite impression. I hope that on some occasion the honourable senator will get up and explain what happened to Mick Miller. The program he worked on is one for which the Queensland Government is to be congratulated. I think it is about the only program I know of in respect of which I can congratulate the Queensland Government. I speak of the program by the medical research team that undertook to test Aboriginal people for trachoma. 
-Yes, the two men who were dismissed at the request of  Mr BjelkePetersen  and who have not been reinstated. I would say that Mick Miller would have less than Buckley's chance of getting his job back in the Queensland Education Department. 
I do not know whether he did but he suffered some inconvenience.  Senator Maunsell  said that  Mr Wood  should now join the queue and wait his turn. He is saying that anyone who stands for Parliament should be prejudiced if he is defeated. I wonder whether he would stand up to that sort of treatment himself if he happens to be defeated. The ethical position is much better when one is standing for the Federal Parliament. I would say that there has never been an instance when a public servant who resigned to stand for the Federal Parliament has not been reinstated promptly. That is all we ask for Bill Wood. He was not reinstated. 
This unusual and unprecedented step- I am now being formal and reading from a speechcontravenes democratically accepted principles. By law public servants are required to resign their positions in order to contest a seat in parliament.  Mr Wood  complied with this law. However, precedent and the intent of the Crown Employees Act are that if a person fails to be elected he can return to his former position. That is the clear intention of the Act. In fact, it provides for a carryover of superannuation, sick leave and other privileges. The real motive of the Premier of Queensland is not to protect unemployed teachers; it is to discourage teachers and other public servants from standing for the Australian Labor Party at State elections. It gets down to that point. It becomes a question of intimidation against public servants who wish to stand for the 
Labor Party. That is the clear intention of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  I lay it hard on the line. 
-What is the situation now?  Mr Bill  Wood is now out of a job. He was appointed to a job by the Department of Education and dismissed from it by that Department. This did not happen to  Mr David  Byrne a defeated Liberal candidate at the last election. He was employed as a lecturer in the Police Academy. There was no advertising for the position. As far as can be ascertained there was no vacancy prior to the election. Yet he got the job. There is no wasting time for a supporter of the Queensland Government. He can be squeezed into the Public Service somehow. 
-He may have been highly qualified but so was Bill Wood. I have another example of the other side of the coin. On 2 February  Mr Bruce  Jackson the  President  of the Barren River Branch of the National Party was at ministerial direction employed in the State Works Department in Cairns. There was no advertising and no vacancy in Cairns for this job. The ministerial briefs outlining his employment say that he is to work mainly in the Cook electorate. I am told that he is the next National Party candidate for Cook. Bill Wood cannot get a job but the next National Party candidate for Cook can get a job which will allow him to move freely around the electorate of Cook. This is an outrageous twist of democracy. 
It was necessary to make those comments at the end of my disjointed speech. It is necessary for this Parliament to realise that those who live in Queensland also live in Australia. It is clearly our responsibility that their democratic rights are protected. We are rapidly reaching a stage when cases of this sort may need to be brought before our branches of Amnesty International. 
I do not know what happened to Eric Deeral. Possibly, having been used, he is now being discarded. If  Senator Bonner  did not have the tenacity he has displayed in this place he also would have been discarded. He has only to go back to the history of his appointment to this place to realise that the same forces which are at work in Queensland to disadvantage people like Bill Wood were at work to disadvantage him. If  Senator Bonner  had weakened for one moment he would have been gone. If he had not had the support of the Labor Party for his endorsement he would have been gone. He was the number three candidate on the ticket. In most cases number three candidates are gimmick candidates. If it had not been for the resignation of  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin and her vacancy, and if he had not had the guts to stand up for his rights and if he had not had the support of the Labor Party he would not be here at present. He should forget about giving any credit to the National Party in Queensland. He received no support in the past. He receives no support now. If my memory is correct he is at loggerheads with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  more often than not. The sort of prejudice that has been directed against him recently in Mount Isa is the sort of latent prejudice that represents the National Party in Queensland. He knows it. One of these days he will say it. 
Could I ask two or three questions?  Senator Wright,  supported by  Senator Wood,  is now proposing that an honourable senator should be able, without giving prior notice to the  President,  to propose a matter of public importance. If it is suggested that a person can, without the support of four other senators, do that then we shall have not a debate on a matter of public importance, but a grievance debate, which is something entirely different. Surely the position is not as  Senator Wright  put it. I think it would be necessary in some way to limit the ability of a senator to debate a matter of public importance. There has to be some limit. Surely  Senator Wright  is not suggesting otherwise. 
That is the present position. I will leave it to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  to sort it out. 
This matter exercised my mind recently when  Senator Haines  asked that she be placed on one of the Senate committees if a vacancy should become available. However, the Senate decided that no changes would be made to the membership of its committees, because the view was taken that they would be changed on 1 July when the new senators took office. That did not help  Senator Haines  very much, but the response from this side of the chamber was that any committee changes should take place upon the entry of the new senators. I was attracted by Standing Order 36AA where provision is made for the appointment of standing committees. Although I do not agree with it, it may give us a guide to the position. The Standing Order provides: 
(a) Unless otherwise ordered, each Standing Committee shall consist of six Senators, three being members of the Government, to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate . . . 
It says that quite clearly. 
-That might be a key phrase to get us out of our bind. It states further:  and three being Senators who are not members of the Government, to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate or by an Independent  Senator. 
-Yes. It relates to a standing committee, but it may give us a guide to the intention. I do not agree with it because it throws upon the Opposition the responsibility of providing for Independent senators. My view is that the Government should be party to some arrangement which provides for service by Independent senators; it should not be left to the Opposition to give up a place on a Senate or joint committee, which may be a very important one. That could in some way influence the position of a member of the Opposition or the policy of the Opposition. For that reason, it would be difficult for the Leader of the Opposition to concede a place to an Independent senator. Apparently, the rules provide that if there is a disagreement the matter can be placed before the  President,  who will subsequently place it before the Senate as a whole for decision. I do not know whether it has ever happened, but I believe that procedure would be followed. Since the matter has been raised and since the place of independents has to be recognised without in any way unduly affecting the Opposition, either the matter should be made clear today or it should be referred to the Standing Orders Committee so that some guidelines can be laid down. My view is that the Government as well as the Opposition has a responsibility to provide the opportunity for independents in this place to play a role. The 
Government, if it so determines, may relinquish one of its places on a committee in favour of an independent. It should not be entirely the responsibility of the Opposition to do so. 
I support  Senator Chaney  's amendment, perhaps with a reservation concerning the speaking times allowed for honourable senators. I think honourable senators will agree, as  Senator Chaney  has pointed out, that for the past year our discussions of matters of public importance, as I think every honourable senator generally agrees they should be called, have lasted only two hours by virtue of the application of the gag, to which we agreed in private, but to which we disagreed strongly in public. 
I am sorry, I have not made such a confession before. It always seemed to me to be a reasonable proposition that we should debate a matter of public importance for two hours before 6 p.m. and keep the heat in the matter, rather than defuse it by speaking for another hour after 8 p.m. However, to do that it was necessary to ask every  speaker  to limit his or her time. By arrangement the time was limited. The leading speakers spoke for 20 minutes apiece, and we divided the remaining time between four other speakers. We had six speakers on a discussion of a matter of public importance. I thought it a reasonable arrangement because the debate was terse and to the point. Both sides put up their best speakers and generally, in spite of the application of the gag, we finished up reasonably satisfied. So if what  Senator Chaney  proposes is accepted and if with that acceptance there is a limitation on the time allowed for speakers, either by arrangement or by rule, I do not think that the Senate will be disadvantaged. 
When we come to the other matters raised, though, I think there ought to be some disagreement. On the matter of acceptance of a matter, I really do not believe that the  President  ought to be placed in a position where his own party would look with some disagreement upon a decision which he might make which would favour the Opposition. Really, if we look at the way we behave in this place, we realise that we make it very difficult for the  President  to give a ruling which might be to the disadvantage of his party. He might not do so, but he might appear to do so. Consequently, unnecessary criticism is raised by the Opposition sometimes and by the Government on other occasions. Therefore I believe that the  President  ought not to be given the responsibility of determining what is a matter of importance. Although the arrangement of precedence by time has not proved satisfactory, it appears to me to be the only satisfactory way in which to proceed. It means that the parties must be on their metal to see that the matter of importance which they wish to debate is submitted quickly enough to take precedence over somebody else's idea of what should be debated that day. We should not put the  President  in the position of deciding between two matters of public importance, nor should we place the Senate at a later stage in the position of disagreeing with the President's ruling. So although it is highly unsatisfactory, I still believe in the principle of first in, first served. 
I turn to the matter of signatures. There does not appear on the surface to be much difference between the procedures in question. In fact, it appears to be a better arrangement that the  President  should know beforehand that the matter is supported by the proposer and four other honourable senators. I believe that  Senator Harradine  is going to point out later that it is of advantage to a minority party, having submitted the matter of urgency first and the urgency motion having been called by the  President,  to move that urgency motion and have it refused by the Senate. It is part of a strategy to move a matter of urgency which is supported by neither of the major parties. The present proposition is that the minority party should have to canvass and obtain four signatures, and if it does not get the four signatures the matter is not raised in the Senate. I am not one to plead the cause of minor parties. I believe that minor parties ought to make a decision as to who they support and declare that and become part of a coalition, either with the Opposition, if it would have them, or the Government, if it would have them. 
Who would have either? I know it is rather difficult. That is the only problem I can see. My opinion is that a matter of importance should be supported by four senators, that a minority party should seek out support for a matter of importance and that the party which first submits a matter with the four signatures should be the one that is selected. The  President  should not be put in the position of having to decide whether one matter is more important than the other. 
I think the matters raised by  Senator Chaney  are worthy of support. Provided that the speaking time of the leaders in each case- I do not see why they should speak for half an hour while somebody else can speak for only 1 5 minutes- is restricted to 20 minutes, the secondary speakers have 12 minutes each and the debate is confined to two hours, we will do very well indeed. How are we going to achieve that position by amending the rules tonight? I cannot see how we can achieve it; nevertheless, I think the Senate should express its opinion that that is the correct way of going about it. 
We decided that it was very important that the length of the debate on a matter of public importance should be two hours. We now have to decide whether we should formally cut down the time of speakers or whether it should be left to the Whips to make the arrangements. There may be good cause to allow the position to remain as it is. Some matters of public importance may draw in the Leader of the Opposition and the Minister concerned, and they may require their full time. In other matters of public importance the Whips may decide that all honourable senators shall speak for 15 minutes. It may be an arrangement which allows for flexibility. We may decide by arrangement that the lead  speaker  speak for 20 minutes. It may be that the lead  speaker  wishes to speak for 24 or 25 minutes. The Leader of the Opposition may speak for only 15 minutes. We have reached the point where senators now say what they want to say and then sit down. When I first came to this place a senator was allowed half an hour to speak and he had to speak for half an hour. 
It was compulsory. Somebody spoke sensibly for 15 minutes and then ruined everything by speaking for a further 15 minutes. Fortunately, through good sense prevailing on both sides of the chamber, we now speak by arrangement for the time we think is necessary. I am not prepared to go to the barricades and move an amendment at this stage. At a later stage we might decide that we need to do so. It is quite possible that in some debate five senators on each side may speak in the two hours; on other occasions the number may be only three. My view is that we should leave it as two hours, and we can decide at a later stage whether anything else needs to be done. 
Amendment (by  Senator Harradine)  agreed to: 
In paragraph (2), leave out 'supported by the signatures of at least four other Senators '. 
-I need to enter the debate tonight to answer what  Senator Martin  has said, and perhaps I ought to deal firstly with the misuse of privilege. I do not take lightly an accusation of misusing privilege. I may accept that my information was in error, and I think  Senator Martin  has proved that, but misuse of privilege is a charge than can be directed against the person whom  Senator Martin  defended tonight as being an innocent victim of statements that 1 made here under privilege. If I recall correctly, it was the same  Mr Byrne  who used a police report to mount a scurrilous attack against  Senator Colston  at the time that  Senator Colston  had been nominated to fill a vacancy in this place. 
If we are talking about a misuse of privilege, I consider that on that occasion  Mr Byrne's  action was a gross misuse of privilege. What I said under privilege last Thursday night was that  Mr Byrne  had been appointed to a position in the Police Academy, having been defeated at the previous State election. Unlike  Mr Bill  Wood and other Labor Party men who had been defeated, he quickly obtained a job in the Public Service. Had  Mr Byrne  been a defeated Labor candidate his application for a job in the Police Academy would have been subject to the consent of the Executive. At  Mr BjelkePetersen's  direction, an application for Public Service appointment from a member of the Labor Party who has been defeated at an election is a matter for the Executive. 
-Manfred Cross would bear witness to this and so would  Senator Colston. 
-So would  Mr Bill  Wood. Is the honourable senator justifying that action? 
-Mr Wilcox's case is not known to me, but I will accept that. 
Yes. Is the honourable senator saying that the case of  Mr Bill  Wood is debatable when, having been appointed by the Education Department to a job at a school, he was subsequently dismissed at the direction of the Executive? Is the honourable senator saying that that action by the Premier of Queensland is supportable? What is the honourable senator saying? 
I am prepared to accept that. I will accept for the moment that I could have been in error. In fact, I will say that I was in error regarding the case of  Mr Byrne  and the job at the Police Academy. I apologise for that. The information I had was that the case of  Mr Byrne  was the same as the case of the gentleman who was appointed in north Queensland. The honourable senator did not mention that case. I refer to the Secretary of the National Party being appointed to a job which was not advertised and for which a vacancy did not exist. The clear lines of that appointment were these: The person concerned was to be a candidate at the next State election and the job would facilitate his movement around the electorate of Cook. The honourable senator did not mention that one. 
The honourable senator should have sought out that information as well to make her case against me even more substantial than it has been. The honourable senator has produced evidence here that I was in error regarding  Mr Byrne.  I accept the error. I apologise for it. But it cannot be claimed that I was in breach of the privilege of this place. The honourable senator has raised a certain matter. I have apologised. 
-Many of us in this place make statements based on information which we receive. The honourable senator said that I should have telephoned the Commissioner and checked on the information. I received information together with a lot of other information. The honourable senator has proved a section of my information to be not correct. I accept that, but I do not accept that I misused privilege. The misuse of privilege is a serious charge. I shall be more careful in the future when I use information of this sort. 
The honourable senator has not in any way altered the true situation in Queensland. Prejudice is directed towards defeated members of the Labor Party. There is clear evidence of that. If I should have been wrong in the case of  Mr Byrne,  it does not mean that the record has been corrected in regard to the unsupported prejudice and injustice which is levelled against these people. I would have thought that  Senator Martin  in her comments would have supported me in that direction as well as supporting the right of  Mr Byrne  to be re-employed. I do not say that he ought not to be re-employed. I have no case against  Mr Byrne  which would justify his being treated the same as Bill Wood and others have been treated. I am not saying that. I merely brought down a case. In part I was incorrect. Nevertheless,  Mr Byrne  is employed,  Mr Young  is employed and  Mr Lamont  is employed. 
No, not necessarily; nevertheless, they are employed and no one questions that. We are questioning the fact that other people have been denied employment; and Bill Wood is one case in particular. 
Bill Wilcox has not been denied re-employment, but we still have to consider Bill Wood and the treatment that was suffered by Sinclair in Queensland. I am not trying to escape my error. I am merely saying to  Senator Martin  that she should not add to the charge of error on my part a charge that I misused privilege. I object to that. I have said before on a number of occasions that I believe privilege exists for a particular reason. It should not be misused. It exists to protect any senator or honourable member who likes to give information in the Parliament. Words do not come easily to me. Let me put it this way: Privilege is given to members of Parliament to protect them from the powerful whom they seek to accuse. 
It carries great responsibilities. That is why I take great objection to what  Senator Martin  said here tonight. I apologise for the misinformation concerning the vacancy and the advertisement. I place that on record. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Administrative Services, and I appreciate his difficulties in representing the Prime Minister in this place. The question that I seek to ask concerns IBM Australia Ltd. Nevertheless, the question must be asked. In his statement to the Parliament yesterday the Prime Minister indicated that on 22 December he informed  Mr Moyes  of IBM that he, the Prime Minister, believed that re-tendering was appropriate. He told the Parliament that that was the only time when he discussed the matter with  Mr Moyes.  I ask the Minister: Is it correct that the Prime Minister's letter of 17 January to  Mr Moyes  failed to make any mention of re-tendering? Has IBM further complained to the Government that it was misled by the Prime Minister's comment? Was the announcement by IBM on Christmas Eve- that is two days after the conversation with the Prime Minister- that it was making changes to its corporate structure in any way connected with the comment by the Prime Minister? 
To facilitate proceedings, I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
On behalf of  Senator Grimes  I move: 
That the Senate condemns the Government for the erosion of the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the reduction, through cutbacks in funding, of the ability of the Commission to perform its statutory functions. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
It is of interest to me to observe that yesterday was Commonwealth Day. I would have thought that a motion such as this should have been moved last week. We place ourselves in a ridiculous position when on the day following the observance of Commonwealth Day we pass a resolution in wholehearted support of it. As I recall, Commonwealth Day was celebrated yesterday in Sydney and, I think, in the other capital cities. 
It was Labour Day in Victoria. 
-And Canberra Day. Nevertheless, the Government has moved a motion saying that it considers it important that Commonwealth Day should be observed. It seems odd that that motion was moved so late. It is an important motion which I think should have been moved last week in order to encourage citizens to participate in the various celebrations throughout Australia. 

 - Mr President, I do not doubt that the worried frown on your brow, as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack described it, was caused by the fact that I indicated that I was going to speak instead of  Senator Wriedt.  I merely do so to intersperse the wisdom of Government senators. I must thank  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack for his contribution. This is the first time I have heard him speak on water resource matters although he indicated he spoke quite some time ago on the Ord River scheme and that he had some caustic remarks to make about that scheme. However, I believe he has made fairly clear his general philosophic approach to the need to harness our water resources. He expressed an opinion which I heard in Sri Lanka, where one of the ancient princes declared that not one drop of water would pass to the sea without it first being used. I think that is what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is saying. He has expressed the view that we ought to harness our water resources to our best advantage no matter where those resources may be. 
Perhaps I should give some comfort to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. The Ord River project is far away from my own state of Queensland. Much has been said about useless expenditure on the project. But my view is that although the Ord River scheme may have been undertaken before its time it will in the passing of time give a return for the expenditure. Perhaps at some future date it may even be said that considerable foresight was shown in developing the scheme. My view is that we cannot be overcritical of any project which conserves the water resources of this country. It may be that money is spent unnecessarily or that a wrong priority is given to expenditure in one place by the Commonwealth or the States and that we should protect ourselves against making such an error because the money may be better used for a particular purpose in another place. 
The Opposition commends the legislation before us although an amendment which endeavours to improve what the Bill intends to do has been moved.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has indicated that the Opposition's amendment is an idle amendment. Nevertheless, I think there is purpose in it. The amendment seeks to make certain that the Commonwealth does have a more direct involvement in the allocation and the spending of specific amounts of money. I also share the honourable senator's concern about whether the Bill will achieve what it seeks to achieve. Perhaps we ought to send it to a committee of the Senate. Of course, I am not in a position to speak for the Opposition on this matter and I do not know whether at this stage the Opposition is prepared to consider such a proposition. I do not doubt that while I am speaking and while subsequent speakers are contributing we may take a look at the proposition. 
The failing of this legislation appears to centre on a misconception from which the Government suffers. The misconception is based on the fact that in the past the Government has strongly opposed the Australian Labor Party's drive towards a central authority in many areas or, if I can put it another way, its drive towards nationhood. From the Government's reaction I infer that it has taken the opposite position, namely a complete faith in a federal system. In this legislation the Government is endeavouring to carry out a program which it seems to accept is a national responsibility. It is endeavouring to achieve that national responsibility through the States. This approach just will not work in this area, just as it has not worked in other areas. It will not work in specific areas such as the securities and exchange area. The Government is saying in this legislation that it will allocate $200m over five years. The Government announced the details of its new national water resources program in 1977 during the election campaign. It said that the money for the program would be spread over five years with the Commonwealth contributing up to $200m seeking a matching dollar for dollar contribution from the States. Further, it said that the program would be drawn up according to State priorities and that it would embody a national approach to the assessment, planning, development and management of water resources. My impression immediately is that that proposition is contradictory. It says to the States: 'We will provide the money; you will set the priorities'. 
Immediately we come up against the problem indicated by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack that there will be a tendency for members of parliament pork-barrel within their State, to have moneys to particular areas for political advantage. That practice, of course, will counter the very purpose and thrust of this national water resources program.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack indicated rather sharply that he was against pork-barrelling and that there was some question as to whether or not moneys should be spent on the Burdekin Dam in Queensland. My view is that the water conservation program in Queensland is insufficient to meet the needs of the State and that rather than criticism being directed at the Burdekin Dam in particular, support ought to be given to increased expenditure. Another problem in this area is that insufficient moneys are being provided for this very important project. 
Of course, it is a case of priorities. We could look at our priorities in respect of expenditure and say that we could reduce expenditure in certain areas and that we could increase it in others. I am saying that we ought to look at our expenditure priorities and that we should allocate moneys in areas where the desired effects cannot be seen in the short term. Long term projects must be planned for now. If we do not plan for them now we will suffer considerably in the future. That is the whole nature of this exercise. It has a very high priority because in this country which has such a flood of water at one time and such a scarcity of water six months later it is necessary to engage in projects which will stabilise that sort of situation. In the protection of the environment and industries which are very much dependent upon water and in the protection of the conditions under which livestock exist, it is necessary to give a very high priority to these water resources projects, even if we have to limit expenditure in other directions. 
It can be argued and has been argued that irrigation projects lead to over-production and therefore that we ought not be supporting irrigation programs. In my view that is rather backward thinking. If we can stabilise our production and make certain that there is a continuity of product, whether it happens to be in respect of vineyard production in South Australia or other States or the irrigation of lucerne, for example, in the St George area, the next step when we reach an over-production situation is to see that there are outlets and markets for the products which these irrigation areas produce. It seems to be a backward step when, immediately a position of over-production is reached in a particular field, we begin to limit the projects which are so necessary to expand and enrich our countryside and to stabilise the conditions under which we produce our rural products. 
I have some figures with me on the subject but I think 1 have said enough for the purpose of this debate. However, let it be said that there ought not to be any limit placed on the amount of money spent on the Burdekin River Dam in Queensland. Rather, expenditure should be increased. I am not engaging in pork barrelling in respect of this project. In spite of what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said about flood mitigation, it is most necessary to mitigate the effects of flood on the City of Brisbane. The cost to the nation of the great flood in Brisbane was considerable. Over $100m of Commonwealth money was expended. That was additional to the large sums of money that were spent by insurance companies and private individuals in rehabilitating homes. The cost to Brisbane - 
-Of course, there was the loss of life, the loss of stock and the terrible hardship for which the flood was responsible. We cannot really support an argument that the amount of money expended on flood mitigation could be limited in a place like the City of Brisbane. One can argue, of course, that poor planning has led to building and development in flood plains and that we ought not to permit this. It has been argued also that enterprises ought not to be developed in fringe areas and semi-desert areas. But we would limit our expansion considerably if we were to prevent development in risk areas. We ought to devise schemes by which the risk is lessened. If the risk leads to some loss, it ought to be compensated for by some schemes that have been spoken of in the Senate. 
In my view, the legislation is well-intentioned but it does not carry out the purpose which the Government or for that matter the Opposition desires. It endeavours to assist the States. It allows them to have the main responsibility as to where the money will be spent. Of course, the amount of money which is made available is not sufficient. I could go on to speak about other areas including interest rates. I could go on to speak about the areas which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack covered in his speech. But perhaps I ought to leave it to subsequent speakers to engage in further debate on those items. 

 - Mr President, could I direct a couple of questions to  Senator Lewis?  Some members of the Opposition are interested in the matter which he raised tonight. In fact, some of us were pursuing a course similar to the one he has undertaken. He has reached the point of having information which, if we could have it, would save us a deal of trouble. If he has any other information or any other documents to which he has spoken tonight, perhaps he would be kind enough to either table them or have them incorporated in  Hansard.  I suggest that he could table them as he has completed his remarks. I know that the procedures of the Senate allow me to move that the honourable senator table any documents to which he referred. Perhaps I can deal with the matter in this way. Therefore I formally seek the permission of the Senate to have tabled any papers to which the honourable senator referred, if he has any such papers. Of course, if the honourable senator does not have any papers we will have to seek information elsewhere. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I suppose he is aware of the old saying: 'Beware of Greeks when they come bearing gifts'. Does this saying also apply to New Zealanders? What is the placard that is being displayed in King's Hall today? Is it a hoax or is it Muldoon 's revenge against the Australian people for the attitudes taken by this Government? 
The Senate should be grateful to  Senator Button  for moving that the Senate take note of these reports and so allowing this debate to take place. We have heard from three members of the Senate who are also members of the legal profession. They have given considerable support to the work of the Australian Institute of Criminology and have indicated in this short debate the importance of the Institute and the need for increased funding. 
I was particularly interested in what  Senator Missen  said about the need to impress upon the community that the police forces of Australia need to be of a high standard in the carrying out of their work, in particular of a high enough standard to be able to use the discretion which is so necessary in their day to day work. Until this debate I was not aware that there was such an organisation as the Institute of Criminology. I am sorry that I did not know. In future I will give added support to the Institute and seek to have its funds increased. If it is only in that area which  Senator Missen  mentioned that the Institute of Criminology operates, then its functions are very important indeed. Most citizens do not come into conflict with the police forces of Australia. Very few citizens would come into conflict with the police force in Queensland. But having come into contact with the police force in Queensland as I did recently, I realise how important it is that there should be an Institute with aims as they have been described by  Senator Missen  and other honourable senators. I realise how important it is that the work of that Institute should become part of the training of young police officers. They should appreciate what is said on just one page I have open before me in a volume called  Crime and Justice in Australia  edited by David Biles. The book is produced by the Australian Institute of Criminology in Canberra. It should be compulsory reading for every police officer in Queensland from the Commissioner of Police down because I do not think they properly understand their role. Perhaps it is through no fault of their own, but if they continue to ignore books of this sort, of course, the fault can be attributed to them. The book states on page 5 1 when dealing with adult offenders: 
Arrest may be either with or without a warrant, depending on the laws pertaining to the particular circumstances. These three courses of action, and the decision to take official cognition of an offender's behaviour in the first place, require the exercise by police of a great deal of discretion. It is by this exercise of discretion that police forces, and indeed criminal justice generally, are to a significant degree judged. 
That statement could be repeated and underlined. It should be part of the daily equipment of every police officer in Australia. It was my unfortunate experience- I cannot say too much on this because the matter is still before the court- to come into conflict with the police. Tonight I appreciate the value of the Institute not only in the training of police officers and police forces throughout Australia but also in the examination of the way in which magistrates courts are run. I can perhaps think of a better word than that. I am referring to the procedures followed in the magistrates coutts. It came to me as a great surprise that a citizen just at the point of arrest seems to loose all his or her rights. It came to me as a surprise that a citizen at the point of arrest can be treated as someone less than human. It seems to me that this procedure ought to be investigated. Perhaps it has been investigated and commented upon by the Institute. It seems to me also that the treatment of all citizens arrested and kept in the holding places which are called by a variety of names- I think watchhouse might be correct- is questionable. It may be for a variety of reasons. It may be due to insufficient expenditure on the buildings themselves, insufficient staffing or insufficient staffing of the right type of people. It may be due to those reasons, but surely that is not an excuse. 
I made some rather hot comments about this at the time until I was reminded that the treatment I received was the treatment Aboriginals received practically every night of the week at Redfern. It was a comment that made me pause because I did not wish to be treated differently from any other person. My argument is that the treatment of all citizens should be considerably better than the treatment that was received by me and some three or four hundred other people on that day. Let me go further than that. I believe that by, shall we say, comment and examination by organisations such as the ones that we are discussing tonight, the position can possibly be improved. I am told that within the prisons there are problems in this respect and that the program of the Institute is under constant discussion. 
There appeared to me to be a strange procedure adopted in the magistrates court. It was puzzling for me to be there for the first time and see that the magistrates court was not in a sense a court of justice, a place of neutrality where the rights of the person arrested or charged were protected by the prosecutor. I would have thought that a magistrates court would seek to protect the offender. I may be quaint in my view but I would have thought that the offender's rights need to be protected by the magistrates court. I left the magistrates court with the impression that it was an extension of the police department and that the offender appearing before that court ought not to be prosecuted by an officer of the police department. In all cases the offender is being charged by an officer of the police department. There seems to me to be an essential conflict here. It leads to some sort of arrangement, agreement or facility which exposes the court to some critical comment that there is too much agreement or pre-agreement between the magistrate and the police prosecutor to the convenience of the police department and to the disadvantage of the offender. 
-Perhaps the police do not agree with me but I like to know what the Institute thinks about this. I am still of the quaint opinion, in spite of my experience- might I say it is a continuing experience- that the prosecutor is present in the court to protect the offender and to bring forward any material which came to his notice which might be in support of and could be used in the defence of the offender, that as a prosecutor - 
-Not so much the opposite; he is a prosecutor. 
I would have thought that the position would be different. It seems to me that the person who prosecutes in a magistrates court should be a member of the crown solicitor's office and that a person appointed to be a prosecutor by that office would carry out his duties in the highest ethical way. 
-Not necessarily. 
I do not accept that the duty of the crown prosecutor is to obtain a conviction at all costs or to present only that evidence which will obtain a conviction. I believe that he has a duty to bring forward that evidence which may in some way inhibit his own case and perhaps inhibit the possibilities of a conviction. Am I wrong in saying that this is so? Possibly only those who are a part of the profession could properly answer me, but it seems to me that there is a conflict of interest when the police prosecutor is proceeding against an offender who is charged by a person who belongs to his own department, and to the same association, the Police Association. Surely somewhere some investigation should be made of it. It may even be dealt with in this book, which I have not read as yet. The book may contain just a germ of an idea. 
Yes, but in a case in a magistrates court it appears to me that he also belongs to the same organisation and department as the prosecutor. That is what I am arguing about, from my short experience in the magistrates court, it seems that the magistrate is meeting the convenience of the prosecutor. In one or two cases that I have in mind he should have dismissed charges rather than deferred them until the police were able to gather the information that they did not have at that time. Wrong people were brought into the court and were charged. Other people were charged with the wrong offence. There are one or two other examples that I might cite, but perhaps I ought not to be going into them at this stage. There were instances where it appeared to me that the prosecutor and the magistrate should have moved for the dismissal of the charge rather than proceeded with it. I believe the element of justice simply vanishes when the convenience of the prosecutor is put before the convenience of the alleged offender. If we are to have an enlightened system of justice in this country- I believe that the work of this Institute may be leading to that objective- we must do all those things which ensure that the offender's rights are in no way jeopardised, even if that may result in a guilty person escaping justice 
I have not got to that point as yet. I appeared on both occasions. I can say that for myself. I cannot say it for several other people in Queensland who fill a more important position than my own and who pass laws which, in retrospect, allow them to escape an appearance in court. I believe that the courts of the land do at all levels- whether it is the magistrates court or the High Court- share an equal place with this assembly and must be treated with the fullest respect. However that respect must be reciprocated, especially in the magistrates court. In my view, it is not. The problem arises because that court seems to have become an extension of the police department, which surely it was not intended to be. 
Let me conclude on that note before I get into further discussion with  Senator Walters  that will lead to the  President  perhaps reminding us of the need to maintain an orderly debate. I have listened with care to what has been said. It has led me to support the work of the Institute, which I believe is important for the enlightenment of both those who receive the law and those who apply it. I believe that the budget it is receiving at the present time is far too low. I would prefer to see $10,000 spent on one item and $10,000 spent on another. 
-In order to comfort  Senator Wright  I point out that the reason that we seek, by the motion, to adjourn the debate to a later time today is merely to allow the legislation, having been introduced, to come on for debate possibly at a very late hour in case tomorrow we should be seeking time to debate a very important Bill which we expect to come from the other chamber. Neither of the Whips, nor those who are responsible for preparing the Notice Paper by agreement with honourable senators on this side of the chamber, intended that we should deny any honourable senator the right properly to consider the Bill before the debate commences. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have listened carefully to  Senator Baume  but I am afraid that he did not strike in me a responsive note. It seems that he, like many members of the Government parties, has accepted a decision without carefully considering the consequences of it. It is extraordinary that members of the Liberal Party, who profess to be champions of the individual, so easily accept decisions to limit the rights of individuals in this place. I am not talking only of members of Parliament. I am talking also of everyone who works within this Parliament, whether he works below or above us, whether he works in Kings Hall or in the offices. I refer to them all. It is extraordinary that the Liberal Party should so easily accept a decision which puts a limitation on people and leads to the apparent identification of people as they move from place to place in order to carry out their duties, whether they be members of Parliament, the staff of members of Parliament or Pressmen. It identifies them. It imposes upon them a pass system to which I would have thought members of the Government parties would have been the first to object. 
Parliament House should be the last place in which such measures are introduced. I have heard about the need to have a pass system in the Department of Defence. I have heard of some commercial building in which a pass system has been instituted. That may be so. I know of certain areas of Australia which people cannot enter without the permission of those who control those areas. The big companies which control areas such as Weipa also control the right of people to enter and leave those areas. 
-Yes. There are such areas and there are such measures. Surely in the past we have not condoned those measures. There has been much opposition to them in this place. Yet over the past few weeks we have accepted lightly measures which limit us and limit the freedom of people to operate and associate. This is what we have done and it is why I believe that the Presiding Officers, who apparently have these powers- I am not certain from where they derive- have instituted a decision and progressed along that path without reference to the two Houses of Parliament and without any consideration being given to the views which might have been expressed in the debate which is now taking place.  Mr President,  I do not doubt that you will consider what has been said here but the decision which has been made will be hard to reverse no matter what is said because the decision has already been implemented. Already people have been appointed, already systems have been installed, already instruments have been ordered and already expense has been incurred. Despite what is said in the debate in this chamber it will be difficult to reverse any decision which has been made. 
Irrespective of the powers that the Presiding Officers have, surely they should consider that the powers flow from the House and from the Senate and that they are responsible back to those two Houses. I do not wish this to appear to be a reprimand. I understand exactly the pressures under which the two Presiding Officers operate. They are pressures which have been imposed upon them. I asked you a question on the first day that the security measures were imposed because, together with  Senator Grimes,  I was one of the first people to enter Parliament House on that day. We were told by young police officers that we were not allowed to enter without a search or without a pass. Of course, we objected to that. The attendant at Parliament House to whom we were well known came forward and said: 'No, that is not the situation'. He said that we were to be allowed to enter without obstruction and that if we carried anything that had previously been out of our possession for some time we would be asked to allow that to be searched. 
This was a reasonable proposition in the circumstances. But who gave the first instruction upon which the two young officers worked? My understanding is that it was the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It is also my understanding that the previous night there was a discussion between the Prime Minister, who represents the Executive, and the Presiding Officers. My information is that the Presiding Officers rightly said to the Prime Minister that the security of and the responsibility for this House rested with the Presiding Officers and that it was they, not the Prime Minister, who would determine exactly what measures would be carried out to protect this place and the people who operate within it. But that pressure resulted in a compromise. The executive, through the Prime Minister, was insisting on exaggerated methods of defence of this place. The Presiding Officers were rejecting anything likely to impede members of this place and the public who come to it. But instead of the Presiding Officers obtaining their will, it is my belief that in order to solve the impasse they had to accept a compromise. These procedures here are a compromise. 
I am saying that as a result of the debate that has taken place in the Senate and the amendment which was proposed by the Opposition and subsequently added to slightly by the Government, there will be a re-think on what has happened. There needs to be a re-think because what we are witnessing in the Parliament today is an invasion of this place by the bureaucracy. Make certain of this: The bureaucracy really likes to get into this place. The bureaucracy would really like to interfere with the procedures and the running of this place. The security measures which have been set up here place us in the hands of the bureaucracy, irrespective of the desire of the Presiding Officers for it to be otherwise. What has been the result? The result has been the appointment of a security officer for the purpose of carrying out the responsibility of the Presiding Officers. 
No doubt he is responsible to the Presiding Officers. Nevertheless, let us see from which area the appointed person came. There is no doubt that the Presiding Officers will assert that that person and his staff will be responsible to them, and to them alone. But how can we be assured of this? How can we be assured that the people appointed will not have some liaison in some way with what is called the Protective Security Co-ordination Committee? What assurance can you give us,  Mr President,  that those appointed to carry out the security requirements you have laid down will not liaise in some way with this outside organisation? How can you assure us,  Mr President?  I know that this Protective Security Co-ordination Committee is supposed to come under your jurisdiction and the jurisdiction of the Minister for Administrative Services. 
-It is not a matter of being evil. This is a matter about which I have doubt. We have seen security forces operating in other places, overseas and within the Australian States. 
-Of course  Senator Withers  has nothing to fear. 
-It is not a matter of having no secrets.  Senator Withers  represents the conservative position in this country and it is fairly evident that the security services of this country protect the conservative position and place everyone else under suspicion. 
I suppose that when the honourable senator puts me in the same category as Marx he elevates me somewhat, even though I might not entirely accept some of the propositions of the person to whom he refers. 
-Since the honourable senator mentions the Greeks, let me remind him of what happened in Greece when an overzealous security force, endeavouring to protect the conservative elements, used the very system that was set up to protect Greece in order to subvert Greece. That happened only a few years ago. All I am saying is this: Be careful of security and those appointed to maintain security and be careful of those who become over-zealous in the course of their work. Even today we notice that there is an over-zealous application of the rules which the  President  has imposed upon us. 
I was diverted somewhat by an interjection from  Senator Withers.  He so often is capable of doing this in a sneering way. I should not have been diverted and I want to get back to the seriousness of what is being done. I do not want to place any member in a privileged position above any other person who works in this place. If a pass system is to be imposed in this place and if attendants within this chamber are forced to wear a badge- and I now see an attendant wearing such a badge- then all of us in this place, the  President,  the Clerks, the people in  Hansard,  the members and the attendants should wear such a badge. If that is to be the case then all who enter this place should come under close surveillance when they sit in the gallery opposite and in the 
President's gallery.  Mr President,  at the present time there are two people in the President's gallery as your guests. They are required to wear passes but it should only have been sufficient for them to have your invitation into that place. This is the ridiculous position in which we find ourselves today. An adviser to the Minister wore a pass while he sat in this House. 
We have come to an absurd position, have we not? We have placed ourselves in this position because we have accepted a system which demands identification at all times. A person must carry identification at all times. A person who is known to an attendant at a doorway still has to have the identification. In other words,  Mr President,  we have placed ourselves in a position of having the responsibility to identify ourselves at all times. For some of us, privileged members of parliament, this identification is by way of recognition, but for all others it is by way of a pass. 
I know,  Mr President,  that in the time of a  President  who held office before you there was security in this place and the welfare of each member and the staff of each member was considered. I believe that security to have been effective but it was not evident. What you have imposed upon us is security which is evident at every turn and which alters our environment substantially. It is no use Government supporters objecting to pass systems in other countries, systems of identification in other countries, systems of security in other countries, if they begin to impose upon us a semblance of those very systems. 

 Mr President, the amendment which we propose and the additional amendment which the Government proposes, taken together, will be what the Senate will accept. They will enable the Privileges Committee to examine every decision you have made. I trust that on the basis of that consideration by the Privileges Committee certain changes will be made. For the sake of our well being- I believe that it depends upon our attitude to freedom of movement and associationwe should quickly consider whether it is necessary for a person having reached his place of operation to continue to wear his pass. Is it necessary? If it is necessary for people to be identified to come into the building, if it is necessary for people to be identified as they move from point to point, is it further necessary that in the place in which they work whether it be the refreshment rooms, an office or the Senate itself, they should display their identification as though they were inmates in a prison or a similar environment? 
This requirement imposes upon us a continual fear that some action may be taken against this Parliament and against the staff. It is a continual reminder. I do not think that we can work in such a climate. If it is necessary that people be identified and have some means of identification upon them, by all means let us go along with that. But the identification should be produced on request. There are many times when a request will not be made. It should not be necessary to be identifiable at all stages. If it is necessary for the staff to wear passes, if that judgment was made and we adhere to that decision, let us all wear passes. Let us all be obnoxious to one another, not just some of us. It has been said that members of Parliament, having been elected, accept the risk of being public figures. They are not worried about themselves. I have said this myself before. Since when has a politician been so concerned about his safety that he needs to be protected in the way that has been devised? We all disclaim it, we are not worried about it and we accept the risk. 
In order to justify what we are doing we say that this action is for the protection of our staff. Has anyone bothered to ask the staff themselves what they would like? Has anyone consulted the staff or the organisations and associations which represent them and asked: 'What is your requirement?' Perhaps they are just as courageous as we are. Perhaps they accept the risk of working in Parliament House and they are not concerned about the threat which may be posed against them or which may be made indirectly against them because of the politicians for whom they work. Has anyone asked the staff what they would like to do? No one has. This measure has been imposed upon people without consideration. 
I shall return to the point which I consider most serious, that is the fact that we have introduced into this place a system of security. We have appointed a security officer. He has appointed staff. We should know exactly who those people are and where they come from. Who are they? What is their background? Are they here to protect the security of this place or are they here to report on various people? There is paranoia on the Government side. I can see the sneer on the face of  Senator Withers  already. I should not be surprised if, in order to supervise what is supposed to be the safety of this place, the intelligence organisations we have set up because of the over-reaction of the Prime Minister were very interested in a person who seeks to see me, in the literature I receive from various organisations and even what books I read and report this information. Honourable senators should make no mistake. The files that exist in New South Wales, South Australia and Queensland would give some validity to what I am saying. We should not give up our own rights lightly. 

 Senator Withers may give them up. Today he flashed a badge and said: 'Look, what my staff are prepared to wear, I am prepared to wear. ' He should have taken the opposite view and said: What I am not required to wear you should not be required to wear.' Perhaps he can work con.fortably in an office where people are floating around with badges and numbers. 
I do not know what I was supposed to be trying to do. All I can say is that I seem to have more of a sense of what is free than some honourable senators on the Government side. They are supposed to be the exponents and the champions of freedom. 
I would say to him: Stay outside'. I would say to a person who sought to enter this place with an armed bodyguard: ' It is best that you stay outside '. 
I do not know that the situation arose. That is the advice I give to you. I am concerned about whether there will be any liaison between the Protective Services Coordination Centre and those who are appointed to implement security measures in this place. I would like to be assured that that will not be the case. I am told that the head of the Co-ordination Centre was  Mr Fleming. Mr Fleming  was Librarian in this place. He subsequently became National Librarian. Many of us came to know him well. I believe that  Mr Fleming  in his new role had a particular responsibility for security and reporting to the Prime Minister and intelligence organisations on security matters. I am told that his place is to be taken by  Mr Roberston. Mr Robertson  will not invite the same sort of confidence that  Mr Fleming  invited. 
If  Mr Robertson  is to be the head of the Protective Services Co-ordination Centre, I want to be assured doubly that the security of Parliament House and those who are appointed to supervise and implement it are not in any way associated with any outside security organisation except the Protective Services Co-ordination Centre which is a brainchild of the Prime Minister and whose next appointment after  Mr Fleming  will be  Mr Robertson,  the former head of the Australian Security Intelligence Service.  His  role under a Labor Government was a questionable one. If it was questionable under a Labor Government I do not doubt that that is a qualification which  Senator Withers  would accept. 
The measures which have been introduced may appear in the light of recent events to be justified. My view is that they are an over-reaction. This place should have been the last to react to such threats. In fact, we should have opposed threats to our safety here by doing less than we are doing at present. We should have set an example by doing only those things that were required under the rules that exist at present. If the rules which cover the protection of property in this place were lax, new rules should have been implemented. I do not think it was necessary to apply the regulations which your statement,  Mr President,  supports. The need for the Parliament itself to set an example and to resist strongly any change in our social environment is a great need indeed. We should be setting an example opposite to that which we are. We should be setting an example that gives a lead to other organisations. What we do here will encourage other organisations to apply similar security measures. What will happen under threat from terrorists, no matter how dangerous their action may be, is that we limit our freedoms. That means, of course, that the battle we fight by our own actions is lost. 
-I take the opportunity of making a brief comment on the statement which has been made. I assure the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that I welcome the statement. It seems to derive from inquiries by a Senate committee some years ago of which we both were members. It appears also that the recommendations contained in the statement are very much in Une with recommendations of that committee. I hope that the Tribunal exercises some sense of priority when conducting its hearings. We have waited a long time for this statement. Many groups of people have waited a considerable time. The Minister will recall that almost 12 months ago I mentioned to him a requirement of a group in Brisbane that had established itself and had done all those things necessary to receive the assistance to set up a fine music public broadcasting facility. The group was faced with a series of frustrations. The reason is now evident: The Government intended to bring some order into the issuing of licences by way of hearings and by categorising certain areas. Perhaps these people were given what I can only term as a runaround because of the need for the Government to establish a firm policy. 
I suggest to the Minister that the Tribunal should give priority to hearings in places which do not have facilities, particularly FM facilities. For this reason I am tonight putting a case for the Music Broadcasting Society of Queensland. The Society is the longest standing applicant for a public broadcasting licence. In fact, it has been working for two years towards that end. It made three lengthy submissions to the Broadcasting Control Board when it was in operation but was not even favoured with a reply. It has done all those things necessary for the immediate establishment of a FM broadcasting station. I will not go into the details and I do not wish to enlarge upon the criticisms which have been brought to my notice because by so doing I might in some way prejudice the application to the Tribunal for the licence. I merely indicate that in Brisbane an organisation has over a period of two years made all the necessary submissions and taken the steps necessary to operate practically immediately. It has the necessary membership and has raised the necessary funds. I ask the Minister for Education to approach his colleague in the other place to see that some priority is given to the holding of hearings in those cities where FM broadcasting facilities do not exist, in particular, Brisbane. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I did not expect to be speaking tonight. I thought that  Senator Bonner,  having started in the way he did, would have continued until 1 1 p.m. 
-As a matter of fact I took my notes back to my office. I thought  Senator Bonner  would finish the debate tonight. However, I have 5 minutes in which to speak and I suppose I can devote the time to saying how impressed I was with what  Senator Bonner  had to say. I was absolutely astonished that he could so misunderstand the Bill before us as to believe that it will enable the people of Kynuna to obtain their petrol at a price which is almost equal to that which I pay in Brisbane. He knows very well that that is not the case. He could have pointed out instead that the Opposition is now supporting a Bill to reintroduce a subsidy that was removed on some very questionable advice which the Labor Government had received. Let there be no mistake about that: It was the most highly contested legislation that ever faced our Caucus. 
Many of the points which have been raised here tonight were raised on that occasion but on that occasion I was on the losing side. 
This legislation will assist and there should be no mistake about that. We do not question it; we support it. It will assist in reducing the price of petrol in remote places. However, the point which the Opposition makes is that the Bill does not equalise the price of petrol. The Government is seeking to delude the electorate into believing that it is carrying out the promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during the election campaign. I am not saying that the Prime Minister was being deliberately dishonest, merely that he did not really understand what he was talking about. He was faced with a problem which we meet wherever we travel in remote areas. People in the country are paying for their petrol as much as 40c a gallon more than are people in the city. The Prime Minister made a promise, which the Australian Labor Party also made, to equalise the price of petrol. The responsibility for doing it now lies with the Government because it was re-elected. However, the Prime Minister has backed away from the promise which he made but the effect of which he did not properly understand. 
Debate interrupted. 
Some remarks that have been made today in this chamber implied that the Opposition was endeavouring to obstruct the Bill, but we are not opposing this motion. We are, by arrangement, giving up General Business to allow the passage of this Bill to take place. Nevertheless, we have felt it necessary to scrutinise the Bill closely and to support strongly the amendment that we have before the Senate. I hope that we have heard the last of such implications; that they will not be repeated. I wish to make that clear. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security given instructions to State Health Departments that municipal councils employing welfare officers under the States Grants (Home Care) Act must require them to devote 100 per cent of their working hours to the aged? As this would result in welfare officers ceasing their valuable community work for people in need, without isolating the aged, why has the change been made in the conditions of the subsidy? 
-by leave- Perhaps the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  could explain at some time whether this procedure is to become practice. We have documents which were tabled in another parliament being tabled in the Senate without any comment or without any opinion expressed by the Minister who presented the documents. Perhaps I see something in this that need not be a matter of concern. I would have thought that with these documents in particular, expressing such a firm point of view, the Minister would have added to them by way of comment, introduction or conclusion. 
The Senate will recall that I was unexpectedly called on to speak on the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Bill at five minutes to 1 1 on the evening of 5 April when I made some introductory remarks. The Senate is now debating that Bill and the amendment moved thereto by  Senator Walsh.  It is important to repeat the amendment because therein is the hub of the matter. It states:   , but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill- 
fails to- 
implement the election promise of the Government 'to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country '; and 
improve the adequacy of the existing petroleum marketing and distribution system in country areas; and 
is silent on the defects in the system outlined in the Fourth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. ' 
There is no doubt that honourable senators from the Opposition who preceded me in this debate have clearly stated that the Bill does not equalise the price  of  petrol throughout Australia. The Bill is the result of a promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  When the matter was scrutinised at a later stage, he found he was not able to satisfy that promise. When one looks at fuel distribution in Australia one realises just how complex, how distorted and how grossly unjust it is. A simple proposition, such as this Bill, does not solve the problem. There is no doubt that it does give some assistance to those who live in remote areas in that it subsidises the freight charge. But it does not remove the great anomaly whereby a person in a remote area may pay up to 30c and sometimes 40c a gallon more than his counterpart in a capital or provincial city may pay. 
In case anyone is under the mistaken impression that I called the quorum to get myself an audience, I place on the record that that is clearly not the case. Nevertheless I am grateful to  Senator Wright  for bringing in some honourable senators who should be interested in the remarks that I have to make. For those who have just entered the chamber I point out that we are debating the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill. I have merely stated that the Bill does not do what the Government intended. It certainly does not carry out what the Opposition intended by its policy and that was to give justice to people living in semi-remote and remote areas in the price of fuel, particularly petrol. The view of the Opposition is that it will be necessary for the Government to refer to the very excellent document which was produced by the Royal Commission on Petroleum. It is the fourth report, entitled The Marketing and Pricing of Petroleum Products in Australia '. 
The complex nature of the industry demands immediate attention by the Government. In the market place there is a severe distortion which leads to the injustices which this Bill, only in a very small part, will help to remedy. It is the responsibility of the Government to take legislative action to correct the injustices. It is not sufficient to allow the oil industry itself to do so. Several conferences have been held on the matter. My opinion is that the Government has reached a point of dissatisfaction with the oil companies which do not appear to recognise the needs of the market place. In fairness to the oil companies and the oil industry, I point out that it is necessary to realise that refinery problems are complex. The refining of the product by breaking it down into various components, creates many difficulties. Some companies have difficulty in moving and distributing some of their products, whereas they are able to remove or to sell a major part of another section of that product. This situation leads to that company exerting great pressure in order to obtain sales in the market place. Also, the pricing policy of Australian crude oil has led to companies scrambling in the market place for volume. They seek this volume in order to maintain their Australian allocation and they engage in what I consider to be unfair practices in the market place. 
The royal commission report indicated that errors which were made two decades ago have led to our problems today. The companies over invested in distribution outlets and are now going through a process of divestment. In doing so, they are causing considerable hardship which would never have been permitted if the industry had been rural. The hardship in rural industry has led to some legislation going through the Senate which will reconstruct the industry and allow those who participate in it some chance to disengage. What has happened in the market place in relation to petrol distribution as a result of the divestment policy which the companies are now following and which must be supported by the Government, is that many small distributors are being forced to the wall in a discount operation which is grossly unfair. I have spoken before in this chamber about the practice of a giant coming into an area and destroying a small operator. In the past we considered that to be an unfair practice. It is now considered to be a fair practice that the small and the weak company should be forced into bankruptcy, and that is what is happening throughout Australia. 
Yes, that is true. I would agree that XL Petroleum Pty Ltd was the first to come into discount operations because the price of petrol was at such an extravagantly high and unfair level. It was well known that the price of petrol some two years ago was 10c or 12c a gallon more than it should have been. This allowed discounters to come in and to sell petrol at a discount. Then several other operators came into the market place and did likewise. The companies encouraged jobbers, that is, people who were able to gather together a sufficient number of outlets to distribute large volumes of fuel which allowed them to negotiate for and obtain a lower wholesale price. The argument is that the wholesale price is the same for everybody, but that is not so because some groups coming together can negotiate with companies to get a special rebate on the wholesale price and often that rebate could be as much as 10c a gallon or some fantastic amount below the wholesale price which allows the discounter to move into the market place and increase the volume of sales. 
I would say there were other companies before ACTU-Solo. The ACTU-Solo company obtained an allotment to Australian crude which allowed it to come into the market place. I am not a supporter of that operation. In fact a co-operative of which I am a member in Queensland was forced into a position in which it was disadvantaged by this practice. When a kindred organisation came into the area and began operating, in order to defend ourselves we were force to join. I am making no excuses. I believe that this practice, which ACTU-Solo participated in, led to a degeneration in the market place. It led to a reduction in conditions of those who were employed in the industry and I would have thought that the trade union movement would have considered their position first. Admittedly motorists were paying a far greater price for their fuel than they should have been. In some places, especially in country areas and remote areas, and particularly in Tasmania, they were paying far more for their petrol than they should have been. They pay a high price because companies seek to maximise their profits in remote areas to make up for the substantial losses in areas where heavy discounting takes place. They may deny that, but that is a fact. That is what is happening. 
-It may not support that argument but my experience from the limited way in which we operate in Queensland with 13 outlets, which were confined to members of the co-operative before we were forced to go into a discounting operation, is that if it were not for our operations in Maryborough and in Gladstone we would be in severe trouble with our outlets in Brisbane. I am pointing out that in respect of a small organisation with a limited number of outlets it would not be able to survive at all without outlets in other areas. Although the Royal Commission on Petroleum did not find this to be so it seems to me that for the small organisation to survive in heavy discounting operations as exists, say, in the city of Brisbane there would need to be some reasonable profit margin in areas which are not very remote- say, areas to the north of Brisbane, up to some 60 kilometres to 100 kilometres away, where the price of petrol could be as much as 23c a litre whereas in Brisbane the price could be as low as 15c a litre. My own experience is that one price offsets the other. A differential price policy allows a whole operation to remain economic. 
I seem to have strayed from my argument. All I am saying is that the Government needs to look at the Commissions' report and begin to implement the recommendations. The Government needs to accept that the distribution of fuel throughout the Commonwealth is important not only industrially but also from a security point of view. It is important for the Government to appreciate that if we are to consolidate and to conserve our reserves of fuel we ought to have a less wasteful method of distribution. It seems to me extraordinary that the Government has produced this piece of legislation without at the same time giving consideration to further legislation which will lead to a correction of the malpractices that exist. 
I have for some time advocated a system of orderly marketing. In our rural industries we have been striving towards orderly marketing. In the distribution of electricity we have established orderly marketing. Yet in this very important field of petroleum we have failed to establish orderly marketing. I think we ought to be looking at the New Zealand experience and we should set a minimum price at which petroleum is purchased and a maximum price at which it is sold. I am not saying that by such a policy we ought to be protecting inefficient industries or inefficient operators. All I am saying is that having corrected the problem that we have inherited following 20 years of one brand stations we should then go on to the area of orderly marketing. This cannot be done in isolation from the other problems that the industry faces. My fear is that if the catch as catch can which exists in the industry at the present time continues without any check more people will be hurt. At the present time the small operators are being hurt. The people employed in the driveways are being disadvantages; the small operators are being forced into bankruptcy and conditions are poor. My fear is that one or two companies may be seriously disadvantaged. There are two Australian owned companies. One is Golden Fleece Petroleum and the other is Ampol Petroleum Pty Ltd. My fear arises because of the policies that are now being followed by the giants. 
Incidentally, in reply to an earlier interjection from  Senator Wright  or  Senator Thomas  that the small operators seem to concentrate on discounts in areas which have a high volume in distribution to achieve a substantial profit, let me say that this policy is now being followed by the major companies. One or two major companies are now starting to concentrate on high volume areas. They are now starting to neglect low volume areas. Companies like Esso are following that policy now. They are closing down the low volume outlets in order to concentrate on high volume outlets. My belief is that when these giant companies, supported by profits from overseas and capital from overseas, begin to operate in this way it may mean that both of our Australian companies may suffer in the process. This view is based not so much on a careful scrutiny of the problem; it is based merely on my experience. My experience, as I have explained, clearly supports the view that industry needs to be thoroughly re-organised and that the oil companies themselves- jockeying for positions as they are at present- are not to be trusted with that re-organisation. The Government must firmly take to itself the responsibility for bringing some order into the industry. 
Without being too highly critical of the legislation that seeks to support people in remote areas, I believe that the amendment- in particular the second part, 'to improve the adequacy of the existing petroleum marketing distribution system in country areas' and the third part, the proposition that we should look at the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleumought to be supported, even at this late stage. I am the last  speaker  on the Opposition side- I say this merely to give some warning to those senators on the other side who will speak. Although members of the Opposition seek to amend the Bill, we are in support of the proposition that the effects of this Bill will be useful; but they go nowhere near far enough. There is report of another organisation that ought to be consulted by those who are interested in the necessary reforms. I refer to a document which I have in my possession. I was tempted to have it incorporated in  Hansard  but it is a substantial document and perhaps it would be better for me merely to refer to it. It has been prepared by the Australian Automobile Chamber of Commerce. I would suggest that any senator who is interested in the problems that face this industry which is important to us all should read the document. 
I am afraid there is no date to this document but it refers to events of the early 1950s, and it covers the whole problem, discussing the Royal Commission on Petroleum and the crude oil policy. It is a document that cannot be ignored because it has been prepared by those people who represent the fuel distributors throughout the country. I am afraid I cannot give the honourable senator the date of publication at the moment, but I have other correspondence to which I do not wish to refer which would possibly give the necessary information. 
-Briefly, I thank  Senator Grimes  for raising this matter tonight. What has occurred in Sydney has caused grave embarrassment to the Greek community and I am pleased that the honourable senator has brought forward one or two matters- I do not quite agree with all the statements that he made- that should be noted with interest. Why was the Department of Social Security so lax as to allow the alleged fraud to become so widespread with the passage of time as to become a major fraud involving many people? The Department will have to accept responsibility for this. Surely if proper checks had been made both here and overseas such errors, if I can understate the situation in that way, would have become apparent and could have been brought to a halt quickly. It seems that many dozens of people- I was going to say 'hundreds' and perhaps that word is correct- have been drawn and enticed into doing something which is quite contrary to the law and for which there can be no justification. 
Let me draw out another point that  Senator Grimes  made and that I have mentioned once before. For some reason or other departments use dramatic measures in the apprehension of people who may be in breach of the law. I remember complaining in the Senate about the raids carried out by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on the Chinese community when searching out illegal immigrants. 
The Department used quite fantastic means, which intimidated the Chinese community and intruded somewhat into the privacy of members of that community. That was a cause for great concern. In recent cases in Brisbane the Department of Immigration took massive action in the early hours of the morning against Fijian visitors who had illegally over-stayed the period of their visas. It seems to me that that is an over-dramatic way in which to respond. I do not think that it is necessary for any department in Australia to use the Commonwealth Police in early morning raids. Again I thank  Senator Grimes. His  support for the Greek community will be received with considerable thanks by those members of it who apparently brought these escapades to the notice of the authorities. I find it very difficult to justify the action of any person who seeks to defraud society. I know that many responsible leaders in the Greek community feel exactly as I do. 
-I take the opportunity at the third reading stage of this debate to mention that the person Smart referred to during the debate is the same person who recommended the continuation of turtle farming in the Torres Strait. It is my view that we should be taking another look at that project, in view of the relevations made in the Parliament today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I direct a question to  Senator Carrick.  I refer him to a card which- is distributed to all honourable senators and which describes him as the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I take it that that description is correct. If that is the case, am I to understand from the answers he has given to  Senator Brown  and  Senator Wriedt  that he was not consulted in connection with the uranium legislation that is now before the Parliament, despite the fact that he is the Minister in this place who represents the Prime Minister in relation to federal affairs? 
I wonder whether  Senator Lajovic  realises how insulting he has been to the community which he sought to defend when he said that it would allow itself to be influenced by the support which the Australian Labor Party is giving it today. 
It is insulting. It is insulting to that community and it is most insulting to the Labor Party but, after all, ours is a political party and we are used to the insults which are thrown across the chamber by  Senator Lajovic  and others. Let me remind  Senator Lajovic  that this situation, this activity against an ethnic community and this type of initiative has occurred before. On 20 September 1977 I asked  Senator Guilfoyle  a question concerning the Department of Immigration and Ethic Affairs and referred to the actions which that Department through the Commonwealth Police had taken against certain Chinese. I asked: 
Did the police raid public places and arrest a substantial number of people? Did the police subsequently interrogate these people and detain a small number for breaches of the Immigration Act? Does the Government condone such dragnet operations which catch the innocent as well as the guilty? Will the Minister accept that this method is totally unacceptable in an Australian community and cannot be justified because . . . an ethnic community is involved? 
That is the question I asked about the Chinese community when it underwent the same harassment that the Greek community is now undergoing. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in a rather prolonged answer which evaded the very heart of the matter, concluded her answer by saying: 
I have no comments to make on the other two questions that were raised with regard to these raids. 
I expected that today the Minister would have taken the opportunity to answer a similar question about the manner in which the Commonwealth Police endeavoured to carry out a direction from a depanment, in this case her Depanment. Although we blame the media, and the media must accept responsibility for the manner in which they have reported this latest harassment, it is the Department which must accept first responsibility and the second responsibility must be accepted by the Commonwealth Police because if it were not for the Department not becoming earlier aware of what was happening this major fraud would not have developed. This incident has all the elements of an entrapment. The Commonwealth Police must have become aware of what was happening through the Department of Social Security. The police should have become aware of it back in 1975-76 when the figures started to show a disproportionate number of portable pensions being given, in this case, to members of the Greek community, although I notice that several other communities also were involved. I notice that involved were several communities of Anglo-Saxon origin and, combined, a substantial number of portable pensions was given to them in the manner that they have been given to the Greek community. 
So back in 1975-76 the evidence was beginning to appear that something was wrong. It was beginning to appear that something was wrong not in Queensland, which is unusual- I have diverted myself when I should not do so because I become paranoic when talking about Queensland- not in Victoria, not in South Australia, not in Western Australia, but in New South Wales. It should have been evident in New South Wales that something was wrong, and my view is that the Department was at fault for not becoming aware sooner that a malpractice was developing. That malpractice should have been earlier exposed and should have been earlier dealt with, but it was not. What then emerged? Despite the information given to the Department by the Greek community, the delay in taking action allowed more people to become involved. Subsequently the Commonwealth Police became involved but it too delayed taking action until such time as it was able to participate in what I consider to be a reprehensible incident, a major raid which had all the elements of the raids that we have learned took place in Hitler's Germany. 
I am not exaggerating. The response of a person in the Chinese community, the Fijian community or the Greek community upon whose door a policemen knocked in the early hours of the morning would be similar to the response to such action during Hitler's period of authority in Germany. 
It could happen under any regime. It did happen during the Stalinist period and it has happened in other countries. It has happened in Indonesia, in China and in Queensland and it happened in New South Wales recently when massive raids were carried out by the Commonwealth Police against an ethnic community and exposed that community to ridicule, contempt and grave embarrassment which it will not forget for a long time. The same thing could happen to any ethnic community. If the Department of Social Security, or for that matter the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs too, is allowed to continue operating as it is operating at present and if the Commonwealth Police continue to act in this massive way whether against Croatians, Chinese, Fijians, Australians of Anglo-Saxon origin or any other ethnic group, curbs ought to be placed upon them by this Parliament and the purpose of this debate is to ensure that such an operation is never allowed to occur again. It has happened to the Chinese community, it has happened to the Croatian community and now it has happened to the Greek community. It is offensive to say the least. 
I would prefer,  Senator Missen,  that the Department, if it desires to be more alert and to ensure that social security benefits are being granted properly, gave applications normal scrutiny. Why is it that in Queensland there are no such cases? It is because the normal procedures are followed. A person makes an application for an invalid pension, that application is supported by medical evidence which the applicant brings forward and then it is checked by a medical referee. What were the medical referees doing in New South Wales? Why was this malpractice allowed to continue from 1975-76 till now? A 1976-77 report revealed that there seemed to be some imbalance in the granting of certain pensions. If the evidence was beginning to appear then, why were not checks made at that time? Why was it not possible for each of these cases, when a problem appeared, to be investigated in the normal way? 

 - Senator Missen says that there was a conspiracy. I am saying that if there was a conspiracy on the part of a few that conspiracy was aided and abetted by the neglect of the Department. In fact, the Department was negligent, because it received evidence from the Greek community, and the Minister has admitted it, that this malpractice- this misdemeanour if one likes to put it that way- was likely to have occurred. Instead of the matter being dealt with in a normal, humane and sensible way it was allowed to gather momentum, to gather force, to gather size, until we had an operation that dragged in many innocent people as well as the guilty. No one condones the guilty. No one in any of the communities condones the guilty. The communities have expressed their resentment against those who have been found guilty, but what they object to is the manner in which the guilty were apprehended, whereby many innocent people also suffered questioning. Honourable senators will agree that the Minister for Social Security is one of the most effective Government Ministers. Most times she is convincing. This time she has not been convincing because she has depended on reports, one being from the Director-General of the Department of Social Security who would naturally defend his Department at all costs and who is doing so at present. 
Honesty in a bureaucrat depends very much upon whether the reputation of his Department is at stake and he has a responsibility, as the honourable senator knows, to defend his officers. 
-It is a queer view. He accepts the responsibility but he does not have the courage to accept it entirely and to confess that he himself is at fault. Perhaps he should have done that in this case. The record seems to show that he had been negligent for at least two years, maybe three. The second report was from the Assistant Commissioner for Police. All commissioners of police, even faced with visual evidence, defend their men to the extreme. Classic examples can be found in Queensland. When there is visual evidence that the police have engaged in violence in the streets the next day the Police Commissioner will say that they acted without the use of any violence whatsoever. He considers it his duty to show his loyalty to his men and to defend them. So does the Assistant Commissioner for Commonwealth Police consider it his duty in this particular case. The Minister for Social Security rests on very unsound ground when she depends upon those two reports. She should be looking at other evidence, and I do not doubt that she has received that evidence. In fairness to the ethnic communities which are involved she should search out that other evidence and give a more humane response to the queries which the Opposition has put to her today. 
Let us look at social security generally. The Minister will agree that the social security program exists to assist people and it is to be expected that some people will exploit that system. Some smart operator, whether he be Greek, Italian, Croatian or Anglo-Saxon, will endeavour to exploit or has succeeded in exploiting the system. But surely we will not operate the whole system on the basis that people should be kept continually in check, because then we would have to treat all people as criminals. My view is that in this recent episode in New South Wales a substantial number of the Greek community were wrongly treated as criminals in order to apprehend the few and I trust it will not happen again. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I would like to take two minutes to support the remarks of  Senator Keeffe  and to thank him for raising this matter. In Queensland there are strange aspects to this proposal which has stretched over a number of years'. It is necessary that this Parliament know what is being done in Queensland because I believe it affects us nationally as well.  Senator Colston  also raised the matter by way of question. In responding to that question  Senator Withers  said: 
I should imagine that if there is to be such foreign investment in Australia it will have to run the gambit of the Foreign Investment Review Board. 
I asked, by way of interjection, 'Has it', and  Senator Withers  said, 'I do not know'. However, he did undertake to give that information to the Senate. I would like to impress upon honourable senators how important it is that such a careful investigation should take place. 

 Senator Keeffe has referred to environmental problems. Let me express my concern over what islikely to happen in Queensland- supported by the unusual patronage of the Premier.  His  patronage in a variety of directions has been well known, and in many cases has been misguided. I believe that in this case also it is misguided. What  Mr Iwasaki  is likely to do at Yeppoon is inject a certain amount of money into a resort and lift substantially the land values in the area.  Mr Iwasaki  has been given access to large tracts of land surrounding the intended resort and the value of that land will be increased immeasurably. 
-Yes, by him, but what are the consequences of that act? It will mean that he will have the right to subdivide a large tract of land and sell it off in his own market- in Japan, Hong Kong and other powerful financial centres in the East. There is a possibility that Australian citizens will have to compete, for land surrounding this resort at Yeppoon, against the power of the yen, which is considerably stronger than that of the Australian dollar and, for that matter, the United States dollar. What has happened in Queensland, and what needs to be investigated from a national point of view, is that the facility of freehold has been made available to aliens. Without being racist, I think it is necessary to find out what is happening, because of that very alienation, in Queensland. Is our land being alienated? In what direction is this freehold control flowing? Is it strongly in favour of the United States? Will it be strongly in favour of Japanese involvement in regard to this project? To what extent are Australians particularly Queenslanders, being disadvantaged? Will Australians be in competition with foreigners for the purchase of their own land? 
There are some unusual aspects of this proposition. For example, there is the closing of the beach, which is an aspect from which the Queensland Government has withdrawn slightly. It says now that the beach will be available from dawn to dusk. What will happen after that period? What is the definition of 'beach' under the contract? All these matters need to be investigated before the Australian Government gives the right of exchange support to this project. All I am saying is that it is necessary for this Parliament to debate this project and to risk, shall we say, charges, which comes strangely from  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  that we are racist in our attitude. All I can say is that I would resist any section of Queensland or Australia becoming a special section in which people who are not Australian nationals have a definite advantage. I do not doubt that some honourable senators have travelled to Sri Lanka. They would have found that certain luxury developments have taken place in Sri Lanka for the benefit of foreigners and to the disadvantage of the indigenous people, who look from the outside at the luxury that has been developed for the benefit of overseas visitors. That is a concept that I do not want to see developed anywhere in Australia. Another concept I do not want to see developed anywhere in Australia is the concept of Australians being denied the right to benefits from and enjoy their environment. All these matters need to be taken into consideration. Originally the Iwasaki project provided for an exclusion, an unusual exclusion- from the beach front. As I have said, there has been a movement away from that. But the original intention was to exclude outsiders from the beach. I think that I have made the point that before this project is allowed to proceed it ought to be a matter of investigation, it ought to be a matter of debate and it ought to be the subject of a statement by the Ministers concerned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I have no doubt that the Minister can justify retrenching cleaning staff in Canberra by the savings that the Government makes. Therefore I hope that he can justify the expenditure of many many millions of dollars on the purchase of aircraft for the VIP Fleet. Can he justify that expenditure? Why are the planes to be purchased? Is not it a fact that there will be only a marginal performance gain over the existing aircraft? Surely the Minister, who in this place represents the Minister for Defence, should be able to give us some justification for this decision and expenditure. 
-by leave- I believe that both the report and what  Senator Archer  has said need further debate. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
Thai the Senate take note of the paper.  1 seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I welcome the statement of the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Social Welfare. I would like to raise a question at this time in case we have to go into this matter in more depth later. The Committee has taken upon itself to extend to itself a reference in the terms of the statement made to the Senate. By not making any comment we are accepting that extension of reference as being acceptable to the Senate as a whole. At some future date it will be necessary for us to decide whether standing committees of the Senate can extend their references without some substantive motion being moved in the Senate. At this stage I merely indicate that there may be a need to watch that a Senate committee does not extend its references without the full knowledge and consent of the Senate. 

 Senator PETER BAUME (New South Wales)- I seek leave to clarify this matter. 
Leave granted. 
It is as well that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  quoted the telegram from the Aurukun people to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  because it clearly shows that the Aurukun people are more compassionate, understanding and forgiving than this Government. The agreement with the Queensland Government is a denial of the rights of the Aurukun people and a denial of the rights of the Aboriginal people whether they are at Aurukun, Mornington Island or anywhere else. The Government should be ashamed of the position which it has taken in this regard, a position which has been clearly referred to not only by the Opposition but also by members of the Government parties, particularly  Senator Bonner  who has been a most vocal and sincere spokesman for the Aborigines. It is a great pity that this debate will not in any way be assisted by the anger and sincerity which only  Senator Bonner  can bring to this debate. For some reason he is not listed as a  speaker.  I know that this is not as he would like it but is the result of the awkward position in which he has been placed by his own colleagues.  His  colleagues have placed him in a position where he must remain silent for the moment. Have honourable senators noticed what reaction there has been in Queensland to  Senator Bonner's  stand? Because he stood for the Aurukun and Mornington Island people and because he has shown that he is what he should always be considered to be, the champion of the Aboriginal people, he has been vilified. He has been called a liar by a Minister of the Crown in Queensland- a Minister called Hinze. But where in this place has there been a defence of  Senator Bonner?  My words are these: It is not  Senator Bonner  who is the liar; it is Minister Hinze who is the liar. Minister Hinze is supported in the lie against  Senator Bonner-- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  I think there are other ways of placing the argument. I think it is unparliamentary to refer to a Minister of the Crown in another place as a liar. 
-This Minister of the Crown set the standards by which he ought to be described, because he said of  Senator Bonner 
I repeat: You are an unmitigated liar. 
I come to the defence of  Senator Bonner  by saying that the person who stated that is himself a liar. How can I in all conscience be brought to order by the Standing Orders of this place which should, in effect, bring Minister Hinze to account in this place? It is the only fair and reasonable approach and position that I can take. 
We brought forward this matter of public importance because we thought it was importantto repeat that word- that the Government should re-state its policy on this matter. The Minister restated that policy but it is obvious that neither the Minister nor the Government understand their own policy. To read the policy of the Government, which varies very little from the policy of the Opposition on this matter, one would say: 'Yes, it is fair and reasonable'. But the recent agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government denies the policy of the Government. It also shows that the Commonwealth Government does not really understand what it is about. It does not really understand the Aboriginal people and it does not really understand what Aboriginal land rights mean to the Aboriginal people. Apparently it does not really understand that there is a very close affinity between Aboriginals and the land- and that needs to be understood when we are talking about land rights. It needs to be understood when we are talking about the agreement between the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government and the Aurukun and Mornington Island Missions because land means something different to the Aboriginals. They do not understand this complicated, this confused legislation on land rights to the Aurukun people which was passed in the early hours of the morning by the Queensland Government. Indeed one is reminded of the fact that in the early hours of the morning, out of sight of the public and indeed on that occasion without the presence of the Opposition which was not informed of this meeting, the dictatorial government of South Korea pushed legislation through. It is of a character similar to that of the Queensland Government which forbids its Opposition to state a case and which objects to its Opposition debating clauses of a Bill even though it is prepared to debate them at 5 a.m. 
The Aboriginal people have an understanding of land rights that this Government, and in particular the Queensland Government, fail to understand. The appointment of  Mr Porter  as Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs was an insult to the Aboriginal people of Queensland. In character he reflects exactly what  Mr BjelkePetersen  said. He represents exactly what the Queensland Government wants: A denial of the rights of the Aboriginal people to their own land. 
We are limited in speaking on this debate. If I have spoken harshly on this matter it is because I believe that what the Commonwealth Government has acquiesced to with the Queensland Government is the denial of this Parliament and what this Parliament intends. It is a denial of the stand that  Senator Bonner  and  Senator Cavanagh  have taken on many occasions in this place. This problem has transcended party lines. It is only when we come up against the vested interests that want to exploit the land held by the Aboriginal people that we see delay and confusion. Only one government stands out against the rights of the Aboriginal people at the present time as regards land rights and that is the Queensland Government. The proposition it puts should never be considered. 
-by leave-  I  move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I  seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted, debate adjourned. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Does the announcement yesterday by the Minister for Health that there would be no bulk billing of doctors' charges, except for pensioners, mean that Aboriginal people will now have to pay cash for any medical treatment they receive, when they receive it? What impact will this have on Aboriginal medical services? 
-My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate refers to that asked by  Senator Button.  I do not wish in any way to conflict with your ruling,  Mr President,  or to place  Senator Withers  in any difficulty with the Royal Commission, but I ask: Can he explain to me how he came to answer my question concerning the change of name of those seats in the McPherson-Fadden area in this way: I have been asked why the names were changed. I do not know. ' That was his answer to me. Can he say now, in view of the statement which he has made publicly, whether or not he misled me on that occasion? 
-I do not doubt that  Senator Kilgariff  is aware that he has brought a new element into this debate. I do not think he should be allowed to get away with his comments. He fails in spite of being a Territorian, to realise that the Aboriginal people are in a special situation. They are indigenous people. They are a dispossessed people and they are a people who have had little compensation. What the Government- and the Labor Party Government did when in office- is trying to do is give some compensation to those people, some special understanding, in fact, discrimination in their favour.  Senator Kilgariff,  who no doubt serves well the great vested interests of the Northern Territory, endeavours to place Aborigines - 

-Senator Kilgariff said to me, and said it plainly, that it is a lie. I have repeated his words. He has not denied that those are the words he used. Those are the words that will appear in the  Hansard  record. They are offensive words. Nevertheless, let the record stand clearly that  Senator Kilgariff  said that I was a liar because of the statement that I am making. I am making it very clearly. Let those who read the  Hansard  record judge for themselves.  Senator Kilgariff  now in this place has the reputation of serving the great vested interests that have held large sections of the Northern Territory for many years and which look with some concern at what will happen at the end of this century when these large leases are broken up and reduced. It seems to me that  Senator Kilgariff  continues to disregard the rights of the Aboriginals in the Northern Territory. He is using a device which the Premier of Queensland has used time and time again- that is, to say that the Aboriginals are citizens as are all other Australians citizens. I do not deny that but to confine Aboriginals to that classification alone is to place the Aboriginals in a disadvantaged position. Neither this Government nor the Opposition intends that to be so. 
What  Senator Cavanagh  is saying and insisting upon by way of change to this particular clause is that the Aboriginal people in that special situation need to be consulted. That is all he is saying. He is saying that it ought not to be just an acceptance of the Minister's assurance, because, as  Senator Cavanagh  clearly stated, that situation could change. It ought to be entrenched in the legislation that is before us and the Minister, in spite of what  Senator Kilgariff  said, ought to accept what  Senator Cavanagh  is saying and simply amend the legislation to make it clear that in consultation with the people of the 
Northern Territory through the Administrator we go one stage further and make certain that the Aboriginal people are consulted also. 
Surely the point is that in a national park there should be a prohibition and a fairly strict prohibition on the introducing into, and the taking out of, that area of any material whatsoever. I would have thought that from that there would flow the understanding that pollution of any part or any stream of that area should be prohibited, not regulated. I think  Senator Melzer  has pointed out a factor that should be taken into consideration; there should be a prohibition. I know that there are difficulties about prohibition. But in an area of this sort prohibition is absolutely necessary; otherwise the ecology can be affected and the ecosystem can be brought under some threat. 
-At this stage I indicate to the Committee that we would like each of these Bills to be reported separately. We wish to take a position on the third reading of the Bills. Perhaps,  Mr Chairman,  you could suggest to us the best way to do that. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Since he is not prepared to deal with the fleas, perhaps he is prepared to deal with the elephant itself. Does he still agree that, and I quote him, 'the Senate has an obligation to uncover the truth despite the objection of the Government' and that the Senate has done nothing more than attempt to fulfill that obligation'? I refer to  Senator Button's  question today. Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate now erecting a barrier and, again I use his own words, 'a wall of silence' every time he is asked to answer certain questions? Will he not agree again with the statement that he made in 1975 against the previous Government when he said that 'refusal of information is the first step towards tyranny' and that a people denied information cannot judge the facts '? If he is not prepared to answer questions in this place and so give the facts, would it not be a highly desirable action on his part to withdraw from the Senate until the Royal Commission had decided whether or not his statements contain assumptions or facts? 
I take the opportunity afforded by the motion for the third reading of these Bills to raise a couple of matters which have not been raised but which need to be emphasised. In so doing I emphasise the reason for which the Senate has debated at such great length these very important Bills. It is to the credit of the Senate, to the credit of the Opposition, and to the credit of honourable senators on the Government side that the Bills have been examined with such particularity. On the motion for the third reading I wish to introduce a factor which may not have been considered, merely, that the Atomic Energy Energy Amendment Bill clearly contravenes Article 14 (II) of the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights of the United Nations, which states: 
Everyone charged with a criminal offence shall have the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to the law. 
I know that that matter has been canvassed during the second reading debate and also during consideration of the Bill at the Committee stages. I believe that  Senator Wright  and  Senator Missen,  as well as honourable senators on this side of the chamber, have emphasised that this is a matter which concerns them and a matter which should be considered by the Government. The fact of this contravention of an international agreement may not have been emphasised. It is one of the aspects of the Atomic Energy Act which should be noted in relation to the erosion of basic civil liberties. Section 47 of the Atomic Energy Act, which is not being amended by the current amendments and which will stand in relation to the commercial operations at Ranger, is particularly damaging in the context of the erosion of civil liberties. I shall read section 47 (a) because it is important: 
On a prosecution of a person under paragraph (a) of section 44, 45, 46 it is not necessary to show that he was guilty of a particular act tending to show an intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth and, notwithstanding that no such act is proved against him, he may be convicted if, from the circumstances of the case, his conduct or known character as proved, it appears that he acted with intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth. 
This section has applied to, I repeat, the commercial operation at the Ranger site and contravenes the basic right of innocence before proven. It is in effect, a presumption of guilt. Quite clearly, it contravenes Article 14 (II) of the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights which states: 
Everyone charged with a criminal offence shall have the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to the law. 
It must be remembered that Australia signed this Covenant under the McMahon Government in 1972 and, as far as can be ascertained, the present Government intends to ratify the Covenant in the near future. Further, the use of section 44 of the Atomic Energy Act which relates to communication of restricted information with intent to prejudice defence, contravenes Articles 18, 19 and 21 of the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights, which deal with freedom of speech and assembly. I think it is important on the motion for the third reading of these Bills to place this matter on record. The contradictions between section 44 of the Atomic Energy Act being applied to a commercial development and the Covenant are striking. On the one hand, the Covenant proclaims these basic rights of speech and freedom, whilst, on the other hand, the Atomic Energy Act as it is applied to Ranger would impose a penalty of 20 years imprisonment for a person communicating certain aspects of the Ranger development to the public. 
Section 50 of the Act provides for wide powers of detention, search and arrest without warrant, which are extreme measures in relation to the development of uranium. It shows that the oftenmade comment that uranium mining will erode civil liberties, as has been made by many honourable senators, is quite accurate. Further, section 60 which applies to the application of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act 1 947 to any works carried out by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and therefore including Ranger, effectively prevents any speechwriting or strike action in opposition to works undertaken by the Commission. The terms of section 60 of the Atomic Energy Act make it clear that the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act provisions apply to any works of the Commission without the need for the gazettal which is otherwise required by section 3 of the Act. 
Finally, these objections which I raise to sections of the Atomic Energy Act which will be used in relation to uranium mining at Ranger clearly illustrate the contradictory stand on civil liberties by the Government and the use of extreme powers, which were employed in the Cold War period of the 1 940s, with respect to a commercial development in the late 1970's. It is an inappropriate course of action for the Government to adopt, particularly as it intends to ratify the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights and to introduce legislation establishing a human rights commission. 
The report of the Privileges Committee is, of course, very important to the Senate and to those many senators who spoke to the matter when it was referred by the Senate to the Privileges Committee. I think it is necessary for us to peruse the report before we can enter into debate on it. Many of us still are not satisfied with the arrangements that have been made for the security of Parliament House. Therefore, in order that there may be a fuller debate at a later stage, I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Because of the interruption in the debate on the International Sugar Agreement Bill 1978- which is very important to Queensland, the State which I represent- I think it is necessary to remind the Senate before it votes on this legislation of the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. I merely read it now to make the Senate aware of exactly what the Opposition intends to achieve. The amendment is self-explanatory and was moved by  Senator Walsh.  It states: 
At end of motion, add ', but the Senate- 
deplores the Australian Government's failure to: 
secure a larger basic export tonnage as established under paragraph 1 of Article 34 of the Schedule; 
inform the cane growers that the loans available from the Stock Financing Fund under Article 53 may not cover the entire cost of holding stocks of sugar; 
announce any specific arrangements in the event of the loans from the Stock Financing Fund being less than cost of storage; and 
acknowledge that the $US0. 1 1 per lb quota trigger price is not a guaranteed price and that the present world price is well below and likely to remain  below $US0.11  per lb. 
It is important for the sugar industry to know that that is the purpose of our amendment. The amendment continues: 
condemns the Minister for misrepresenting the Agreement's pricing provisions and their likely impact on Australian export prices. 
I am tempted to go into that matter in detail; nevertheless, the intention of my intervention is merely to re-emphasise and to attract the Senate's attention to the amendment which the Opposition has moved to the motion for the second reading of this Bill. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report: 
I have moved this motion for very good reasons. I congratulate  Senator Messner  for the report that he has presented and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts for its diligent investigation. This is the 169th report of the Committee. It merely bears out what has been said on both sides of the House, namely, that there are two committees of the Parliament that play a very important role. One is the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances and the other is the Public Accounts Committee. It would be to the advantage of State parliaments to consider the records of those committees and to introduce similar proceedings of their own. 
Honourable senators from both sides of the House participate in the proceedings of those committees. I take it that in his remarks  Senator Messner  has given credit for the work of honourable senators from both sides of the House. I have moved that the Senate take note of the report to allow us at a later stage, in a more leisurely fashion, to debate the very important contents of the report. We have no opportunity at the moment to do so. For that reason, I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I draw attention to the fact that this report is for the year ended June 1977. From my simple calculation it is now 1 1 months since the end of that period. I raise this matter in particular because the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has been rather scant in its treatment of this chamber especially in the presentation and substance of its reports. This ought not to be allowed to go unnoticed. It would have been of assistance to the Senate and to Senate Estimates committees to have had this report before the Estimates committees held their deliberations. I think we ought to continually attract attention to any department that delays presenting its reports to the Senate. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Government plans to dismiss over 1,000 permanent employees and 2,000 casual employees of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation to allow defence forces staff to operate canteens on a part-time basis? Can the Minister give any reason for this decision and advise the Senate what action the Government plans to ensure that all the workers displaced by this decision are able to find alternative employment? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As the Minister responsible for royal commissions, has he received a request directed to the Prime Minister from the Returned Services League for a royal commission into the Iwasaki project at Yeppoon? Is the Minister aware that the RSL is concerned about the alienation of Australian land? Can the Minister, as Leader of the Government in the Senate, give the Government's view about the alienation of Australian land? 
-I now direct to the Minister representing the Treasurer part of my question which I had directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. It relates to the Iwasaki project. Will he advise whether an environmental impact statement has been received in connection with this project? Will he also advise whether the foreign investment guidelines have been adhered to? Perhaps he can also give more details on the Commonwealth's attitude to the alienation of Australian land? 
The amendment proposed by the Opposition to the Estate Duty Assessment Amendment Bill 1978 and associated Bills states: 
Leave out all words after 'that', insert 'these Bills be withdrawn until such time as an alternative form of tax on capital is introduced '. 
This is a deliberate amendment, designed to make certain that one form of revenue collection is not dismantled until such time as it can be compensated for by what honourable senators on this side would consider to be a much more just way of raising revenue from the aggregated wealth of individuals. We know all the abusesthey have been explained by honourable senators on both sides- that are inherent in the present legislation. From time to time these abuses- one can term them abuses- have been eased by amendments such as the lifting of exemptions and by introducing legislation which has made more tolerant the arrangement between a person and his or her spouse. If the present legislation is to remain it is necessary for progressive reforms to be made. I think that what members of the Opposition have been trying to impress on the Senate today is that, having accepted that there are substantial problems with this legislation because of the various evasive devices that are available to a special and privileged few, we should be seeking a method by which we can apply some tariff or tax upon the accumulated wealth of a person as he progresses through life. It has been accepted that the person alone cannot achieve that wealth. He needs the support of others; he needs the support of society; and he needs the support of the state in order to accumulate that wealth. Land taxes, I think it would be accepted, are continual taxes upon the net worth of a person as far as his land holdings are concerned. That idea could be extended to other areas of net worth. Surely there can be no dispute that society has a need to maintain itself, to defend itself, to educate itself and to keep itself healthy by these avenues of taxation. We say that the present estate duty legislation is faulty but it should not be dismissed unitl such time as an alternative tax has been introduced. 
We have been panicked into the abolition of these duties, I believe, because of the decision taken by the Queensland Premier. I do not say the Queensland Government, but the Queensland Premier who is a representative of the Queensland Government. In fact, I could say that by the method under which he operates he is the Queensland Government. He made a firm decision which was to his great personal advantage. He decided to abolish death duties for the reasons indicated by  Senator Scott.  He wanted to create a situation where moneys would flow into Queensland. Having taken that important decision unilaterally- so much for this federalism policy of which  Senator Carrick  so often speaks- to create a haven from death duties in Queensland, every other State in self-defence needed to follow, even Tasmania. Moneys will flow as people move to protect themselves from estate duties which may still exist in their States. If it were necessary for each State to follow the despicable Queensland initiative taken by the Queensland Premier, surely it is even more necessary that the Commonwealth should retain these taxes until such time as an alternative tax is introduced. 
An amendment has been moved by the eloquent  Senator John  Wheeldon.  His  eloquence is to the advantage of this chamber and to the advantage of us all.  His  recall is extraordinary. In today's debate I think he put the case fairly clearly. It is hard to refute the arguments which he presented. We put the case that these duties need to be retained until such time as an alternative is achieved.  Senator Wheeldon  suggested several alternatives. But make no mistake about it, the New South Wales Government was forced to follow the Queensland Premier's decision because, as the New South Wales Premier said, there was a flow of moneys from New South Wales into Queensland. There would be a flow of moneys from Victoria and from all other States if Queensland alone became a haven from death duties. Such is the nature of the individual in this society, who seeks to protect beyond his death the assets that he has accumulated, having made no provision in his own time for the protection, education and support of members of his family who have had to survive themselves by their own efforts. 
I believe that one has to watch very carefully just how those assets flow because the aggregation of wealth in this way could mean that surpluses would accumulate in the hands of the few to the great disadvantage of the many. Within only a few generations we would find examples in Australia of the situation that exists in some European countries where some families have a massive accumulation of wealth and a multitude of families have very little. So much for the protection of the family,  Senator Scott. 
The Federal Government is now doing exactly what  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  did, but in an international way. We would create in Australia a haven for many people from overseas, who seek to exempt themselves from or to avoid the death duties in those many developed countries that  Senator Wheeldon  enumerated. That is what will happen. There will be a flood of alien capital into this country. We will find that our land and assets will become alienated and, if I may be allowed to exaggerate a little, we will become slaves to that type of capital. I believe that although in the short term this would be advantageous, in the long term it would be disadvantageous to the type of society which we have endeavoured to create and, I think, have succeeded in creating. The Iwasaki project in Queensland, a Japanese project, involving many millions of dollars, which has been criticised in this place has, I think, been somewhat prompted and assisted by the fact that in Queensland there are no longer such imposts as death duties. I do not doubt that  Mr Iwasaki  would like those assets to flow, without any limitation whatsoever, to his family. I believe that the case has been well put by speakers on this side of the Senate. 
I make one further point. I find it extremely difficult to understand how any Government supporter or any member of the Senate can vote on such a proposition. It must be a terrible bind to have to vote on a proposition which may, in some cases, mean a difference of many hundreds of thousands of dollars. How can any honourable senator in this place vote for this legislation without first establishing an alternative way by which his wealth can be taxed. There is no doubt that members of this Parliament, more likely on the Government side than on the Opposition side - 
-That is the nature of the two parties. One party defends those who have and the other defends those who have not. Therefore those who are likely to be affected - 
I presume the honourable senator is talking about pensionable parliamentarians? 
If any member of Parliament is in the position where he will obtain $200,000 in a lump sum by way of pension, he ought not to be voting on this legislation. He has an interest that will be of benefit to him to the extent of perhaps half that amount. It would be more ethical for parliamentarians in respect of this sort of legislation to establish firstly the alternative which the Opposition is proposing before they vote on it. I wonder in what position the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  found himself when he voted on this legislation. I am certain that the Premier of Queensland gained substantially, not by thousands of dollars but by hundreds of thousands of dollars, as a result of the legislation which he prompted and forced through the Queensland Parliament. I ask honourable senators to consider that the course the Opposition is proposing is the only reasonable course to take. It is that these Bills be withdrawn until such time as an alternative form of tax on capital is introduced. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services, whose answer to  Senator Walsh's  question was so brief that I did not hear it. I ask: What communications, either directly or indirectly, has the Minister had with electoral distribution commissioners in any State other than Queensland? 
I wish to raise a point. I notice that the Bill is concerned with arranging for extra finance for the defence forces. A question was asked this morning by  Senator Justin  O 'Byrne concerning the proposed Casey University, as it is sometimes called, or the Military Academy as it is now being called. There is some confusion here as to what it is. I want to be assured that the money provided under this Bill will not be allocated for this purpose before Parliament has a chance to discuss the advisability of such an establishment and before Parliament can determine what character that institution shall take. 
It is all very well to say that perhaps I ought not to be concerned because the establishing legislation is not before the Parliament. But I recall that when I served on the Public Works Committee it was often revealed to us that certain decisions and expenditure had been undertaken even before the Public Works Committee had approved of that expenditure. For instance, purchase of a site and a substantial amount of site improvement had been undertaken on the understanding of course that it was only a matter of time before the Parliament and Public Works Committee agreed to it. We must appreciate that this is not a satisfactory state of affairs. I should like to be assured that none of the finance for the defence forces provided in this Bill will flow in that direction. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
Again I notice that we have a report for the year ending 1 976-77 being presented some 1 1 months after that close of that period. I made the comment yesterday that that is far too long to wait for a report if the Senate is to consider the details of that report. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I apologise for the stupidity of my question. 
It was a stupid question because I saw the word 'defence' in 'loan amendment for the purposes of raising moneys for defence purposes'. It was not until the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  gave her explanation that I realised that this is merely a device by which moneys can be raised to meet general expenditure. In those circumstances, of course, I can see that my attack should have been in another direction and that perhaps I should be questioning this means of raising moneys. The Minister said that it is traditional, it has been the practice and it is a means by which the Loan Council can be by-passed. Is that correct? I may not be correct, but it seems that that is so. Next time I will be a little better informed as to the devious methods by which the Treasury works in order to meet its commitments. I thought I had better make that explanation to let the Minister know that I am a little wiser now than I was when I asked the question. I doubt that I am completely convinced that the method that is being used ought to be allowed, no matter how long such a practice has been used. When the Minister says that it would be 'improper' if the 
Government did not meet its commitments before 30 June, the same could be said about the method by which we are going about it. 
I have only a couple of points to make.  Senator Jessop  almost ruined the submission I am about to make to the Committee; nevertheless I will make it. I do so at this time because I can use the example of the actions of the  President  of this chamber to support the case that I wish to make. If honourable senators look at the minutes of the proceedings of Senate Estimates Committee A for Thursday 4 May 1978 they will notice that the  President  of the Senate appeared before the Committee and all the officers of the Senate did courtesy to the Committee by attending and responding to questions from the Committee. 
I think it ought to become an established practice that when departments appear before estimates committees they should follow the example set by the Senate officers and be represented at the highest level. I can see in the chamber tonight one  deputy  secretary of a department. Whereas it is not as important to attend these proceedings as it is to attend the estimates committee proceedings, nevertheless it is a courtesy which that department has extended to the Senate. This practice is not consistent. When we were examining the estimates of one department it was represented by junior officers. I believe that does no good to the estimates committee. The department does not produce officers that can give the information. If the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is in attendance before the Committee she should be supported by at least the head- the secretary- of the department, or the  Deputy  Secretary. On no occasion should a senator need to complain that a department is represented by junior officers. Nor should the junior officers be placed in a position before a committee of having to answer questions which they are not as well equipped to answer as the senior officers of the department. 
I merely make the point that the witnesses before the committees should be at the highest level possible, but in the Committee of the Whole perhaps it is not as justified when one considers that from time to time the debate in this chamber is reduced to a rather extraordinarily low level. That is not a criticism of  Senator Jessop  alone but  Senator Jessop  is the first person who comes to mind because of his recent performance here. I think it is extraordinary that he should perform in that way. One must consider that if we are to ask that departments be represented at the highest level our performance in this place should also be at the highest level. Having delivered that homily I will sit down. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education and refer to the statement that he put down last night and to answers to certain questions this morning on fees paid by university students. Could I advise him that over a number of years I have received representations from - 
There is something inhuman about this provision. If a senator were to die or suffer a terminal illness and died before he retired then his estate would get the full benefit of the fund would it not? 
For quite some time I have been trying to obtain from the people concerned an explanation of just what the entitlement of a senator was under the old legislation. It seems to me that the senators contributing to a fund at the same rate as members of the House of Representatives, even under the old legislation, had to serve twice as long to receive the benefit. It seems to me that, as far as these superannuation arrangements are concerned, the provisions relating to a person's term of office were not worded in a simple way by referring to 'parliaments'. The legislation spoke of 'facing the people'. In normal circumstances senators face the people half as often as do members of the House of Representatives. It seems to me that instead of wording the legislation in this rather complex and contorted fashion- it seems to be a rather contorted amendment- it should have been simple enough to word the legislation in terms of 'parliaments' instead of in terms of 'facing the electors '. We in this place serve for the terms of a certain number of parliaments. We are here for three, four, or five parliaments. A parliament is measured in terms of House of Representatives elections. 
-Of course it could be. But that is not likely. We went through a rather turbulent period at one time in which we had double dissolutions and sudden elections and no parliament seemed to run its full term. This meant that in some cases some members became pensionable after three or four years of office. Of course, that is an aberration. Surely we ought not to consider an aberration when we are considering what is likely to be the normal situation. What is likely to be the normal situation now under the new constitutional arrangements is that the elections of the Senate and the House of Representatives will be held simultaneously. They have now been brought into alignment. Surely we can now look at this proposition in terms of parliaments rather than in the terms used in this rather complex amendment. I know what the amendment is trying to get at. It is trying to correct an anomaly which has existed for many years whereby members of the Senate had to serve twice as long as members of the House of Representatives and each year had to contribute the same amount of money into the same fund before they could get the benefit of that fund. 
I want to take up a matter concerning the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I think this might be the appropriate moment to do so. It concerns off-cuts of, say, a news sequence which is filmed of events which may be occurring, for example, in the streets of Brisbane. Apparently it has become the policy of the ABC newsroom and current affairs programs to destroy off-cuts immediately after that program goes to air. I want to comment on the disadvantage in which that can place some citizens who may have to answer before the courts for certain incidents in which they were involved. If the ABC edits a series in such a way that the time sequence is destroyed and events do not appear as they occurred, a citizen can be placed at a disadvantage before the courts because the evidence the camera shows is thereby distorted. That distortion could be corrected if the off-cuts were available. It seems to me that for some reason- I do not think it is an acceptable reason but it is just a suspicion on my part- the ABC does not want to get personally involved with court procedures. Accordingly it makes it difficult for it to be involved by destroying evidence contained in off-cuts which would correct the sequence of what goes to air. 
I make it plain that the sequence is altered in the editing of the program. The events which are shown are not in sequence and what is shown can thereby be prejudicial to a citizen who is endeavouring to defend himself. I ask why there is such a policy. Why is it not possible for the ABC to protect those off-cuts for a period of some 10 to 14 days in order to allow that citizen an opportunity to request that they be held in case they are needed? 
-I hate to delay the Committee, especially as next week will add to our problems, but I must ask a couple of questions. I understand that the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development comes under group B. The question I raise concerns environmental impact statements.  Senator Colston  and I have raised several questions on this matter. The information that we are receiving seems to indicate that there are two environmental impact inquiries. One is being carried out by Queensland. We have to look very carefully at what the Queensland one means. It seems that the Iwasaki company itself has been required to present an environmental impact statement. It is rather peculiar that the company that stands to benefit from an approval to proceed is the one that is given the responsibility of producing an impact statement. If that is the case, one would have to view that statement with caution. It ought to be available for public scrutiny. An environmental impact statement is for public scrutiny and for public comment. 
But I am more interested in what the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  said this morning. He told the Senate that an impact statement is being prepared by our own Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. The Minister indicated that that environmental impact statement is not likely to be available until sometime in late June. I want to be assured that that impact statement is made available for public comment by the various interested parties before the Commonwealth Government makes any decision to allow the exchange approvals to proceed. Surely it is necessary for the people in Queensland who are concerned about the progress of this concept to be aware what the Premier is saying at the present time. He has said that the impact statement that has been accepted by the Queensland Government is not the final decision that has to be made and that there are further decisions that have to be made. 
I know of the difficulty in which the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  finds herself because this matter is really not within her area of responsibility. One could ask politely why she is at the table. It would be far better for us if the Minister responsible for this area were present. But there may be some good reason for the absence of that Minister. The Minister at the table may require some time to obtain that information. I can appreciate her difficulty. I accept that, as I have made the comments and as I consider them to be important, they will be treated with importance. 
Since we are dealing also with the Department of the Treasury I ask that the Treasury make public before a decision is made its assessments whether Iwasaki should be provided with exchange facilities to bring substantial sums of money into this country. The Opposition has raised questions about the alienation of Australian land.  Senator Carrick,  who represents the Treasurer in this place, has undertaken to give us information. The Parliament will rise in seven days time. We need to be reassured that the Treasury will answer the questions which are coming from the Opposition. We want to know what will be the results of large scale development by  Mr Iwasaki.  No one would question the infusion of that capital into a tourist development on the central Queensland coast if it did not have some rather disquieting aspects. One such aspect is that it was proposed- I believe that Iwasaki may have moved away from those proposals- to close off some of the beaches in Queensland. I do not think that it is the case now but it was proposed to be the case, and under pressure the Queensland Government and Iwasaki seemed to have moved away from that. 
I am concerned that not only has  Mr Iwasaki  purchased sufficient land upon which to build his tourist complex but also has he bought substantial tracts of land surrounding that complex. Far more land has been purchased by  Mr iwasaki  than is necessary for the tourist complex itself. That means that  Mr Iwasaki,  over a long period, stands to gain substantially from the development of surrounding land. One may say that he is putting the money in and he is entitled to the benefit which he may gain from an increase in the value of land which he has purchased on rather favourable conditions and under the patronage of the Queensland Premier. 
The question now arises whether this land is likely to be alienated because of the advantage that people in other countries would have where the dollar or the yen is much stronger than the Australian dollar. Is that land likely to be alienated? Is it likely to be hawked across the world, for the benefit of those who have the strength of capital, to the disadvantage of Australians? The alienation of Australian land, therefore, is a matter which needs to be considered when this complex is being considered. What is the Australian Government's attitude towards the alienation of land? What consequences will flow from this complex which is to be developed with such huge amounts of foreign capital? 
The  Chairman  of Estimates Committee C,  Senator Walters,  will recall that for a short time I attended the hearings of the Committee when it was dealing with appropriations for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Unfortunately, the hearings of the Committee on that Department adjourned on a Friday and, because of a commitment I had in a court in Brisbane, I was not able to attend the next meeting of the Committee. I gave notice that I would ask a series of questions concerning Applied Ecology Pty Ltd. The Estimates Committee was gracious enough to suggest that the sequence of the investigation should be broken to allow me to ask those questions. I said that that would not be fair to the 
Committee. The questions I will be asking in the Committee of the Whole concern Applied Ecology. I do not know whether an officer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is present. 
-That makes the situation awkward. 
-Perhaps I could ask the questions next week. I consider the questions concerning Applied Ecology to be about a very serious matter. The Committee will realise that Applied Ecology has been under debate in this place several times over the last five or six years. Applied Ecology commenced its operations during the term of the previous Liberal Government. It ran into difficulties during the term of the Labor Government. In my view it still continues to be a problem from which the Government does not seem to be able to escape. It seems that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is persisting with the enterprises of Applied Ecology when they should have been diversified. I do not know how to describe the scheme involved. Every time I think of it I think the word that describes it well is outrageous. It should be called the turtle farms in Torres Strait scheme. I have asked a series of questions. I have asked whether the environmetal impact statement which was demanded of Applied Ecology has been prepared? If the Committee is in some difficulty about time perhaps I should seek leave to continue my remarks. I most certainly will not be able to ask all the questions I need to ask in the short time which is available. Perhaps the Committee should report progress? I leave it to the Minister for Social Security to suggest the procedure I should follow. 
-I want to know whether the continuing expenditure on Applied Ecology Pty Ltd has been justified. Has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs made any sort of assessments in this regard? If it has not, why not? A further question I ask is: Who is  Chairman  of Applied Ecology? If it is a  Mr L.  Smart, why is he still Chairman? Has the Department considered the need for a change? Who are the personnel of Applied Ecology? I want to know exactly what turnover there has been in the staff of Applied Ecology- I am talking about administrative staff- over the last two years. 
The Minister for Social Security has reminded me about the annual report. She will recall that we were surprised that the presentation of the annual report should be so late. It did not in any depth reflect the expenditure of well over $100m of the taxpayers' money. The Minister will also recall that I expressed concernthe Committee agreed with me- that certain enterprises, such as Applied Ecology Pty Ltd, received no coverage in the annual report. The response was that Applied Ecology was a separate enterprise. Then, after questioning, we found that the shareholder of Applied Ecology was still the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
The question which is still very much in my mind is: Why should Applied Ecology escape the close scrutiny of the Estimates Committee when essentially it is still, in essence, part of the Department. We also expressed concern about ensuring that a number of other enterprises, such as Aboriginal Hostels Ltd, which are funded by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs give detailed reports to the Parliament so that those reports can come under close scrutiny. In relation to Applied Ecology, it is my intention later this year during the Estimates Committee's hearings to ask for a complete accounting to be made of Applied Ecology and for the results which have been achieved be given to the Committee in August or September of this year. It is necessary for the Parliament to impress upon the Department of Aboriginal Affairs that it is not sufficient to fund useless organisations with large sums of money merely to distribute the amount which is allocated to the Department. It is not satisfactory to have an enterprise which, from my quick calculation, must have cost the taxpayers some $5m without any apparent result. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; progress reported. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education, ls the Government considering the introduction of a student loans scheme? If so, will it supplement or replace the existing Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme and the adult secondary allowance scheme? 
-I seek leave to raise a matter which may be one of privilege. 
Leave granted. 
I was going to ask  Senator Carrick  this question during Question Time but time ran out. The question is this: Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  appearing before the Royal Commission in Brisbane at the request of the Commission or by arrangement? If it is at the request of the Commission then perhaps a question  of privilege  arises. I leave it at that.  Mr President,  the question of whether  Senator Withers  is appearing by direct request of the Commission cannot be answered by you. It can be answered only by  Senator Withers  himself. But it is important to ask that question because today the Leader of the Government is absent and is appearing before the Royal Commission. If  Senator Withers  is appearing by request- perhaps I should put it harder and say 'by demand'- then I believe that a question of privilege arises. 
-by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I resist the temptation to reply at this stage to the remarks of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- It is necessary again to make the protest that the Opposition seems to have to make year after year in the last weeks of a sitting. The Senate is now faced with a massive number of Bills. Some very important Bills are proposed to be passed through this place this week. The Government is requesting all honourable senators to truncate their speaking times thereby cutting down their contributions on very important legislation. Over the past two or three years it can be seen that the Opposition has co-operated with the Government within certain limits. Our view is that we will co-operate, but we must protest at the fact that the program that we have to complete in four days covers quite a number of Bills, many of which the Opposition has agreed to debate cognately. In fact, by agreement we have decided to take together 13 Bills- the Northern Territory package of legislation, as it is now called. Okay, we have agreed to do that, but sooner or later the Senate must start to take stock of a familiar pattern that is occurring year after year- Bills coming through the House of Representatives at a rather slow rate in the first two or three weeks of a sitting while the Senate is debating in a leisurely way relatively unimportant matters. 
Within four days we will be debating some very important Bills, including Bills which are crucial to self-government in the Northern Territory. I do not  blame the  Ministers in the Senate; I blame those who are responsible for the progress of legislation through the House of Representatives. They should have been well aware that this situation could arise. These Bills should not have been sent to us in this way. It means that we have to deal with them with dignity and efficiency but in a very hurried sort of way. The Opposition will do its utmost to assist senators to leave on Friday, if that is possible. I believe the Government Whip will agree with me that it is becoming more difficult to deal with legislation that is put before us at the end of each session. We have endeavoured in the Senate not to truncate debates by artificial means. The co-operation of honourable senators on both sides of the chamber has been sought, and the co-operation has been forthcoming. 
The program that was laid down early in the year provided for the Senate to finish on 2 June. Unfortunately some senators made arrangements with that date in mind. I think it would be wise in the future for all senators to take the suggested finishing date with more than a grain of salt and to add at least a week to the anticipated finishing date. With this sort of program it might be wise for senators to add a fortnight. I firmly protest that this situation should arise time and time again. I make one further point: The Opposition has accepted that second reading speeches should be incorporated in  Hansard.  We have accepted longer sitting hours each day, from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. We have accepted sitting four days a week and sometimes five days a week. Instead of the situation being improved, the situation has become worse. I would like a response, if possible, from the Government as to what can be done to correct the situation which, as an understatement, is lamentable. 
Honourable senators will recall that when progress was reported in this debate last Friday I was asking questions concerning a section of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs named Applied Ecology Pty Ltd. In the Estimates committee hearings I foreshadowed some questions that I would be asking in the Committee of the Whole. I was subsequently advised that some of the questions had been answered in a document titled 'Estimates Committee C, Written Replies to Questions Asked During Estimates Committee C Examination of Proposed Additional Expenditure for the Year 1 977-78 '. Although the answers given in that document do not entirely relate to the questions that I intended to ask, they do provide some satisfaction in that the progress and initiatives of the turtle farm project and other projects are outlined. I feel satisfied that those answers will do for the moment. 
When the Estimates committees meet again other senators and I can go into much more detail about indigenous staff, white staff, turnover of staff and costs. The straight questions concerning Applied Ecology also can be asked. After some 5 years of operation is the project justified? Has it been diversified sufficiently? Has it learned from the errors of the past or has it fallen back into those errors? I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to make certain that at the next hearings officers from Applied Ecology are present in sufficiency to answer the questions that are likely to be asked. Will the Minister assure us that organisations such as Applied Ecology understand their responsibility to give an account to the Estimates committees and not to hide behind the annual report of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which made little or no mention of the activities of Applied Ecology. 
I leave Applied Ecology for the moment. At a later stage I shall ask what vessel required a $40,000 refitting so soon after its purchase and how that problem arose. Those questions can be asked later in the year. I merely forewarn the Department and Applied Ecology that the questions will be asked so that they can take the necessary steps to give a clear accounting. I again make the point clear that I do not wish to disadvantage any project of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs which is directed towards assistance to the Aboriginal people; I merely question whether the emphasis should be directed away from a particular type of project to another project which might have more chance of success. Honourable senators will agree that we cannot heap failure upon failure. 
At the Committee hearings I raised the question of hovercraft services. Honourable senators will recall that, against good advice, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs committed itself to the purchase and the operation of a hovercraft in the Torres Strait. Local opinion and expert opinion elsewhere considered the area to be far too tumultuous- that is the only way that one can describe it- for the operation of such a craft. I asked why the advice of the supplying company on the advisability of a hovercraft service was the only advice sought. Of course the company was bound to say that it would be a great success. But local people were aware of the dangers, the costs and the problems likely to be met by such a service. In the replies supplied by the Department it is stated: 
Between January 1 975 and January 1 976 a hovercraft was tried and tested utilising the services of a UK charter firm,  Hoverworth  Ltd, and UK air cushion vehicle engineering consultants, Robert  Trillo  Ltd, who were responsible for maintenance and operational aspects. 
Will the Department at the earliest opportunity give me all the costs involved with that project? 
The Department advised: 
The service was ultimately discontinued, primarily because of: the high cost of chaner and operation. 
So it seems that the Department went into a charter operation rather than a purchase operation. Perhaps it is just as well. Nevertheless, let us get the cost of the whole operation. The reply continues:  vehicle proved unsuitable up to 40 per cent of the time because of local weather and tidal conditions. 
That was the information that was being handed out, not about the hydrofoil, but about the hovercraft. The reply went on:  high 'down time' associated with operation and delay and difficulty in parts supply. 
That was the sort of advice that was handed out at the time. It seems that the Department withdrew from a purchase situation to a hire situation. That may have been the caution. But really the caution should not have been necessary if the advice that it just would not work and that it would be better to look for something else had been taken. 
All those problems which were associated with the use of the hovercraft can now, in some way, be related to the helicopter. Can anyone give me any information, or the results of any survey, or any advice received and tell me from whom it was received concerning the operation in the same area by a helicopter? Are we going into another area of expensive operation and cost and subsequent failure? In the Torres Strait area, not only do we have substantial tidal problems, but also we have substantial wind problems. Also, rapidly changing weather conditions in a very remote area may lead to those cautions being taken which will ground the helicopter for a considerable part of the time. Again, if the helicopter enterprise or initiative can be shown to be of an entirely different nature from that of the hovercraft enterprise, then by all means the Senate will support it, especially in an area where communication is absolutely necessary. 
I commend the Department, however, on taking up with Telecom Australia the matter of a communication of another kind which does not depend on tide or wind, and that is a Telecom radio communication facility. I do not have the details in front of me, but I think that there is some proposition of that sort. The sooner it is expedited the better. That is the sort of expenditure that can be commended. That, together with some type of radio program, indigenous in character, to serve the people of Torres Strait, Cape York Peninsula and the Gulf of Carpentaria, is an enterprise worthy of support. If we can save money on hovercraft and helicopters, then perhaps we can spend more money in this direction. If we can save many hundreds of thousands of dollars a year on turtle farms and turtle raising, there may be other means by which we can assist the peoples of the area. 
-I refer to the matter of the helicopter service and the information provided by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to the effect that the helicopter service is to work in conjunction with the existing service provided by Thorpe's Transport Pty Ltd. I simply comment that that information in some way lessens my concern, because my experience with Thorpe's air services has been such that I am convinced that it is a very effective and worthwhile service which has been limited by the insufficient number of airstrips in the Torres Strait. Nevertheless, it is a company which one can expect will do its utmost to see that the proposed helicopter service is successful. So many of my objections may have been answered. 
The high cost, however, is an aspect which still concerns me. I am concerned also that the level of subsidy to Thorpe's air services for the running of this service will necessarily need to be brought under scrutiny. I take this opportunity to mention that on many occasions in difficult circumstances Thorpe's has been able to assist members of parliament to enter into the area and, often when difficulties have been met in getting out of the area, Thorpe's has come to the rescue by flying members of Parliament from Thursday Island as far south as Cairns to meet their southern connections. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill 1978 and the Customs Tariff Validation Bill 1978. We wish them a speedy passage. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Recently he considered it important to enlarge the terms of reference of the Royal Commission inquiring into the electoral redistribution. If he knew between 10 April and 23 April of  Senator Withers'  involvement, why did he not broaden the Commission's terms of reference then? Are we to understand that the Attorney-General has allowed himself to become enmeshed in the errors of others? 
I wish to add a few words as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. If one enters these discussions late one is fortunate in not having to say too much because everything has already been well said by others. Nevertheless, I say of  Senator Wood  that although we have levelled many criticisms at him from time to time not one of those criticisms has been directed towards his work on the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. The record stands for itself. The pride which he has had in the work that he has done is a pride that he deserves very much indeed. 

 Senator Sir Reginald Wright, a man who has had such a turbulent career in the Senate, I find to be of two characters. One we see in this chamber is aggressive, as we have been reminded recently. But in committee work he is another person altogether. I have served with him on several committees. I served for a short time with him on the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. He applies his great mind in a microscopic way to the benefit of this Parliament and the legislation which is enacted here. I wish both senators well in their retirement. They have done well for the Senate. 

 Senator Sir REGINALD WRIGHT (Tasmania) (5.58)- I acknowledge the very generous references made by  Senator Ian  Wood,  Senator Missen  and  Senator Georges-  I think with the approval of the Senate- to my work. My work has been given, as usual, with unlimited energy and effort to the best of my capacity. The functions of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances have been sufficiently described. The Committee has maintained steadfastly in a non-party way the principles enshrined in our charter. Be it remembered that the Senate had the foreknowledge to create this Committee in, I think, 1936 as a result of a great crisis in 1931. That was eight years after Lord Hewart's book  The New Despotism  was first published, if my memory is right, and two years before Hitler, by an abuse of subordinate legislation, invaded the Reichstag with this power. 
I have risen to pay my tribute to the cooperation of  Senator Wood  and his magnificent work as  Chairman  of the Committee. Let it be understood,  Mr President,  that in all the matters on which  Senator Wood  and I found ourselves of one view never has there been the slightest preconcert or consultation except by debate in Parliament and debate in Committee. I am grateful to the Senate for according these few minutes for me to acknowledge what I consider to be a very generous tribute and to thank honourable senators for it. 
-At the least the Opposition should be allowed to intrude into this strange debate which has taken place here tonight. It seemed that Caesar was attacking Caesar ad nauseum. Now that the babble has ceased we can get to the business of the Senate. 
-In answer to the interjection by  Senator Rae  I point out that what has taken place here in the last SO minutes has been quite irrelevant to the business of the Senate.  Senator Rae  has a hide to raise a point of order when we consider how for the last 50 minutes we have been endeavouring to deprive  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright of the right to speak.  Senator Rae  cannot accuse the Opposition of being part of that; he can accuse only the Government. I was stirred to that response by  Senator Rae's  interjection. 
The Bill before the Senate at the moment is the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1978. The main purpose of the Bill is to provide financial assistance to the States through section 96 non-repayable grants for capital works to improve the quality, capacity, efficiency and frequency of public transport services in eligible urban areas. The Bill will provide $300m, being two-thirds of the cost of approved projects for the five year period 1978-79 to 1982-83. In general terms the Bill provides for a continuation of the Commonwealth funding initiated by the Whitlam Labor Government under the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974. The allocation of funds to public transport by the Australian Labor Party was the first major investment of public funds in urban public transport since the electrification of Sydney's urban rail services in 1 920. The neglect of urban public transport since that time led to a deterioration in services and standards. That resulted in a decline in passenger journeys from 1,122 million in 1961 to 948 million in 1971, whilst for the same period Australia's urban population increased from 5.7 million to 7.5 million. 
The Whitlam Labor Government first provided Federal finance to meet the urgent problems the States were facing in replacing rolling stock. It provided funds for hydrofoils and ferries in Sydney, the erection of bus shelters in Adelaide, Sydney and Perth, rail line upgrading and signalling improvements, tram and bus purchases in Melbourne and the electrification of railway lines in Queensland and New South Wales. I submit to the Senate that that was a worthwhile and substantial initiative. I remind the Senate that it was Labor's 1974 legislation that established most of the important measures carried forward in this Bill. Perhaps it would be wise for the Opposition to recall the record of the Labor Government in this area, especially since the Labor Party is denigrated from day to day by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who takes every opportunity he can find to denigrate the period in which Labor was in office. That was a most progressive period. It was far too short to achieve what the Labor Government sought to achieve. It was far too short because of the obstruction by members of the present Government while in opposition, using their massive numbers to deny the people's elected government the right to govern. 
Labor's 1974 legislation established most of the important measures carried forward in this Bill. It provided financial assistance to the States for the programs put forward by the States on a two-thirds to one-third basis. It established five year funding arrangements as set out in the annexures to the Urban Public Transport Agreement of 1974 and processes for consultations with the States. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. It only carries on one of the many great innovations of the Whitlam Labor Government. In fact, one can only be surprised that this Labor initiative in the field of urban and regional affairs has not gone the way of many others which have been scrapped by a heartless, miserly and conservative government. Of course, one could be critical of the legislation. One major criticism must be the total inadequacy of the amount of funds provided by this Bill. The amount of funds provided is inadequate both in terms of what has been provided in the past and what needs to be provided now. I think it is wise and justified for us to look at Labor's record in the provision of funds for urban public transport. In Labor's original proposals at the end of 1972 it was envisaged that a total of $500m would be made available over a five year period, 1973-74 to 1977-78, subject to the increased allocations to cover cost escalations in that time. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in another place said that there was certainly no public statement on record at the time to that effect. I refer the Minister to an article on page 13 of the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of Thursday, 16 November 1972. It said: 
A Labor Government would implement a $760m public transport plan, the Leader of the Opposition (  Mr Whitlam),  said yesterday. 
The BTE Report, handed to the McMahon Government in June 1972, recommended that $760m be spent in a fiveyear period . . . 
A Labor Government was prepared to implement the whole of the Recommendation. 
Simple arithmetic would indicate to me that twothirds of $760m is $500m. It is a matter of public record that Labor was committed to spending $500m over five years on urban public transport. The Labor Government went ahead with that program. On 1 March 1973 the Federal Minister for Transport wrote to his State counterparts as follows: 
We have, of course, the basis of your program in details that were put forward by your transport authorities and evaluated by the Bureau of Transport Economics. I would hope that the overall size of the program would not be much higher than that assessed by the Bureau. 
This was the confirmation of the Whitlam election promise, particularly as to the scope of the assistance. The Labor Government backed up these words with action. The Federal commitment for the initial stage of programs in each of the five years 1973-74 to 1977-78 was set out in a schedule to the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974 which also ratified the Urban Public Transport Agreement concluded between the Federal Labor Government and the 
States. Its passage was delayed- I place emphasis on this- by the actions of the Senate which disrupted the orderly processes of government and culminated in a double dissolution in 1 974. 
We need to go back to that period to appreciate the obstruction of many programs that the Labor Government initiated. During that period the Senate went on strike. One could say that many of the economic problems that subsequently followed were the result of that three or four months period while the Senate sat adamantly opposed to the passage of Supply. The dislocation caused at that time penetrated into many areas of economic activity and led to lack of confidence and distrust. Under the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act $7 1.91m was appropriated for distribution amongst the States to fund their programs submitted in 1973. Under the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act an amount of $66. 1 1 m was appropriated in respect of the States programs submitted in 1974. Thus, in round figures, $138m was appropriated by the Federal Labor Government for the States 1973 and 1974 programs. If any honourable senator doubts those figures I refer him to page 2512 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 17 October 1974. I admit, however, that it is a matter of public record that the States spent only the abysmal sum of $79m to the end of 1975. 
This is a reflection not on the Federal Labor Government but on noncooperative coalition State governments which were more intent on biting off their noses to spite their faces than to take advantage of the opportunities offered to them by the Whitlam Labor Government. I remind  Senator Peter  Baume that it is not often that I get an opportunity to speak in support and to remind the Senate of the record of the Whitlam Labor Government. I am afraid he will need to be tolerant with me tonight because I am going to take just a bit more time in this exercise. The Whitlam Government was prepared for an outlay of Commonwealth funds for transport improvements amounting to $500m over five years on 1 973 values. But the programs submitted by the States came to nothing like that amount. In New South Wales, for example, the Liberal-Country Party Government did not proceed quickly enough when the funds were approved and the opportunity for federal funding, particularly of longer term construction projects on the scale originally envisaged, was lost. Under the original approvals about $37m of federal grant money was available for expenditure to 30 
June 1976. Up to that time only about $20m had been drawn by the State, or just over half of the amount available to it. I think that underlines the attitude of conservatively led State governments when the Federal Labor Government was in office. They resisted to their own disadvantage the initiatives of a Labor Government. They declined to take up amounts of money that were available to them in order to discredit a Labor Government. It was part of a massive attack upon the Labor Government which led to its defeat at the hands of the conservatives in this country. Since the change to a Labor Government in New South Wales in May 1976 the expenditure performance has been vastly improved. In the year to 30 June 1977 out of a total of $24.25m which was available, an amount of $23.64m was spent. The balance was reserved for the Granville-Penrith quadruplication which was one of a number of major construction projects discontinued by the previous New South Wales conservative Government. 
In the 1972 election campaign  Mr Nixon  pledged to spend $330m on urban public transport. In 1976-77 an amount of $64.6m was budgeted for urban public transport but only $58m was spent. In 1977-78 an estimated $51m will be granted. This was short of the amount the Federal Labor Government appropriated for expenditure in 1973-74 and 1974-75. In the next five financial years the amount to be made available will be only $60m a year and the legislation departs from existing arrangements in that there is no automatic provision for the Commonwealth to support cost escalation as an additional contribution to each project. 
I could go on for some time but I know the strictures that face the Senate, and of course we have to allow some time for  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright over the next two or three days. It seems to me that honourable senators opposite are not capable of handling their future colleague, their own rebel, and I certainly am prepared - 
-Their colleague. 
I correct myself. 
-Their past colleague. 
-Their present rebeland  Senator Withers  can have him back at any time he wants. 
-No, there is not. We saw the spectacle here tonight of exchange between Liberal and Liberal that revealed the basic level of their own philosophy. 
-No. I recall the old definition of a Caucus and a conservative party meeting. One has the thorns on the outside and the other has the thorns on the inside. I will let  Senator Withers  work that one out. I will not speak at any great length. I merely express the opinion that in the area of urban transport there is an urgent need for assistance to the States. Money is urgently needed for public transport in order to reduce the confusion which exists in the major cities which are dependent on private transport, which are subjected to costly expenditure on freeways and which are faced with increasing traffic congestion and pollution as a result of the over-use of private transport. One cannot underestimate the importance of the legislation which is to be passed through the Senate tonight. All that we on this side of the chamber complain about is that not enough money is being made available. A further criticism of course is that the States with, it appears, the exception of New South Wales, are using the money effectively and efficiently in order to get the best result. 
I am reminded of my own experience in Queensland of the slowness of development in Australia. About 55 years ago a house in which my family lived in South Brisbane was resumed by the railways because it wanted to connect the southern suburbs with the northern suburbs by rail. As I have said, the railways resumed that property 55 years ago to the disadvantage of my family and all our neighbours. The other day we were pleased to witness the lifting into place of the last link to connect the south side with the north side of Brisbane. It has taken 55 years to complete the link between the south side of the river and the north side of the river. The tragedy is that in Australia public programs take so long to be developed and completed. Legislation of the sort that is before the Senate is legislation which provides money but the money which is provided should be spent expeditiously. For that reason I reiterate, despite the criticisms that 1 have made, that the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. In fact, it supports it. and I rest on those comments. 

 -Mr President, that babble has almost driven the question out of my mind. I direct a question to the AttorneyGeneral. I am interested in the question asked by  Senator Chaney.  Does not the human rights legislation flow from an international agreement? If it does, is it not binding on the States, and is it unnecessary to approach the States with regard to such legislation? If that is the case and it is binding on the States, would it not be expected that the first person to answer before such a commission would be the Premier of Queensland who took police files into the State Parliament to intimidate members of his own coalition against proceeding in a certain way? 
-by leave- Yesterday the Opposition could have frustrated  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright if it had so desired but it did not do so because it believed this to be a matter between him and the Government. I rather enjoyed the exchange which took place yesterday. Anyone who is prepared to take on  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright deserves the treatment that he meted out to honourable senators yesterday. I do not believe that any honourable senator here should be given preferential treatment to that given to any other honourable senator who has been in a similar position. I recall  Senator Bonner  and  Senator Ryan  having introduced legislation, and that legislation then took its position, and rightly so, in the Government's program.  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright is in a different position because he retires on  30  June. The Opposition accepts what the Government is doing in this matter and looks forward to the information that  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright will provide in his second reading speech. This does not necessarily mean that we agree with him but, of course, how can we agree if we do not know what he has to say? We look forward to hearing what  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright has to say. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. In the circumstances, it is not necessary for me to say much on the subject except perhaps to make the comment that payroll tax is an iniquitous tax. I believe that at the last election we outlined our view that payroll tax was a tax on production. So far as the Opposition was concerned, payroll tax should have been abolished and some other form of tax applied in order to gain revenue. It seems extraordinary to me that recently we abolished for justifiable reasons probate and death duties as a means of taxation and of gaining revenue. Yet, at the same time, we continue to impose payroll tax which bears very heavily upon industry, upon commerce and especially upon those people who are engaged in industry which, in the present economic circumstances, is finding it difficult to maintain viability. 
This Bill is merely an instrument by which the Government ceases to apply payroll tax in the Northern Territory so that responsibility can be taken over by the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. I wonder why this Bill is not a part of the package of Bills with which we will be dealing shortly. It could have been. We could have debated all these Bills together. It does give me an opportunity to express one or two points of view on payroll tax. The sooner that the Government of this country comes to the view that payroll tax ought to be abolished and that it should use its undoubted influence upon the States, the better.  Senator Durack  indicated this morning the tremendous influence this Government has upon the States. He believed that by approaching the States he would be able to get some ratification of an international agreement. Of course, if he is as hopeful as that on the matter with which we dealt this morning, I do not doubt that he is as confident when it comes to the abolition of payroll tax. The States can apply payroll tax to gather revenue in a substantial sort of way. Payroll tax in Queensland is based on a levy of 5 per cent of the amount paid to employees. That is an imposition upon the earnings of people. It is a straight-out imposition based upon the level of earnings and not on the profitability of the concern. I would have thought that the Liberal Party would have been the first party to take the initiative to see that this tax was removed. 
At election time we made an error in our policy speech. We tried to achieve this worthwhile result, but we tried to trade it off. In trying to trade it off, we may have made an error. We were not able to convince the electorate that the abolition of payroll tax was a worthwhile initiative. Nevertheless, it is on the conscience of the Government and those who support its cooperative federalism that this payroll tax persists. This Bill is merely a means by which the new State- one must use this term to describe the Northern Territory. Is it a new State? It ceases to be a Territory, does it not? 
Well then, what is it that we have here? I do not want to go off on a flight of fancy. Of all the Territorians here, I am the oldest because I was born in Darwin some 58 years ago when it was a rugged outpost. The fact that I stood on one leg for the next 10 years of my life might have been the result of the environment in which I was born. 
I am not sure of that. Nevertheless, it was apparent to those who knew me well in my earlier years at school that if someone wanted to search me out in the playground they looked for the chap who was standing on one leg. I do not know whether it was some sort of instinctive reaction to the fact that I was born in the Territory at a very early stage in its development. I am not certain about that. 
Yes, I was a left legger. I should have been awake to that earlier. I would have thought that all the legislation with which we will deal later and which relates to the Northern Territory leads to the inevitable conclusion that we have created an extra State, an extra Parliament, more politicians and more expenditure, even though it may not be justified as far as the Northern Territory is concerned. I am not sure of the total population of the Northern Territory.  Senator Kilgariff  could possibly tell me. I believe the total population of Darwin is about 34,000 people. 
Darwin has a population of 50,000. Then all the work that the Australian Labor Party did and all the money that it provided for the reconstruction of Darwin have achieved a worthwhile end, that is, an increase in the population of Darwin from some 34,000 to 50,000. But in spite of the points which may be raised concerning this legislation- I do not doubt that  Senator Robertson  will bring forth these points- I question whether it is advisable for us to be moving the Territory towards state-hood so rapidly. I had better get back to the subject matter of the Bill before somebody takes a point of order against me. The Bill before us will amend the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Act 1971 to terminate the tax upon wages related to the Northern Territory of Australia and for related purposes. I am pleased to announce that the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
-I have a particular interest in this one. 
I got out of them. I seek leave to move a motion. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note  or  the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I would like an explanation on this point. I must admit that the Bills are confusing to a person who has not - 
-In this place people become specialists in certain areas either because of professional qualification or as a result of sheer experience. Others, of course, have a natural curiosity which we exercise from time to time to learn a little more. I am prepared to get to my feet and show my ignorance. By so doing I might gain a little information which would make me less ignorant. 
I am tempted to stir the Minister for Education further, but I shall try to stir another Minister instead. I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The Senate will recall that the Minister volunteered to appear before the Royal Commission in Brisbane and did so on a non-sitting day. Did the Royal Commission direct him to appear on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week, which were sitting days of the Parliament? Why did he not consider it necessary first to seek the leave of the Senate to do so? 
I should have thought that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  would have been more reasonable than he appears to be at the moment. I thought  Senator McAuliffe  's proposition was a reasonable one that could have been accepted by the Government. I think the Minister sees too much in the intention of the Opposition. He has confessed to some so-called direction being taken by the Government. He says that we are taking the opposite direction. I suggest to him that at this time when the House of Representatives has risen for the winter recess and we are in a position to amend the Bill, this would be an excellent opportunity for us to assert our authority over the other House, just as the Minister endeavoured to assert his authority on another occasion, when, incidentally he succeeded. On 1 1 November 1975, as I recall, this House asserted itself over the House of Representatives. If the Minister wants to be consistent perhaps he can achieve that end by accepting the Opposition's amendment, which is a reasonable amendment, and bring the House of Representatives back next week. 
 The Ministers of State Amendment Bill 1978 seeks to increase the annual sum provided for the payment of Ministers under section 66 of the Constitution. An amount is payable out of Consolidated Revenue for the salaries of Ministers of State. Provision for this is made under the Ministers of State Act 1952-73. The second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  was a short one. I can understand why. This would be the sort of provision that the Government would like to put through the Parliament before it came to the notice of  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright. 
-Does he agree with it? I should have thought that, with the honourable senator's zeal to protect the public purse, he would have expressed himself at length on this Bill. Now that I have read the second reading speech for the first time, I realise that there is another way in which the Government could have achieved the result which it is seeking. The Ministers of State Act was last amended in 1973. Apparently the annual sum appropriated under it is now insufficient to meet the current ministerial salaries recommended by the Remuneration Tribunal. TheGovernment. is suggesting that the Senate should pass this BUI and increase the amount made available. But there is another way of going about this matter. The Government could decrease the numbers in its Ministry. A glorious opportunity is presented to us with the introduction of this Bill to look at the position of the Ministry. If we had the time we could go through the portfolios one by one and examine whether they are justified. We could examine whether the holders of the position of Minister were, shall I say, worthy of the amount which the Remuneration Tribunal makes available to them. We could have what is termed in the vernacular a real ball on this one. 
-It is not a matter of having the numbers. Unfortunately, we really do not have the time. However, the temptation is great to go throught the list and ask questions. For instance, let me deal with the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee).  What has his portfolio achieved? What are the results? What is the size of the Department of Productivity? How many people are employed in it? Every time we create a portfolio we also create a bureaucracy. It can always be argued that the previous Government had a certain number of Ministers and that therefore this Government is entitled to have the same number of Ministers. But that is contrary to the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He said that he would confine the size of his Ministry to what he considered to be and what many other people consider to be a reasonable number- twenty. I suggest that 20 positions is not sufficient to allow for the ambitions of those people within the Government party room. 
I am not reflecting on Ministers in this place because I believe we do not have a sufficient number of Ministers here. Sooner or later we will have make a decision on whether we are to have any Ministers at all in this place or whether there is a sufficient number in this place to represent the Government properly. My view is that there is not a sufficient number of Ministers in this place to allow for a proper accountability of or to provide explanations for, shall we say, the actions of the Executive. One could go through the list of the 27 ministries and ponder whether several of them are justified. In order to correct the problem that arose during the election- a problem that faced the then Treasurer,  Mr Lynch-  another ministry was subsequently created, that of Finance. There was then a Treasurer and there was a Minister for Finance. There was a division in responsibility for financial matters. 
-Is that so? All I can say, whether it was done earlier or not, is that there were two establishments- two ministeries- and this addition to the bureaucracy meant additional cost to the public purse. The story does not end there because in Queensland  Mr BjelkePetersen  would say: 'Ha, they have 27 in Canberra. That is a grave reflection on the sovereignty of the State of Queensland; we will have twenty-eight'. New South Wales would follow suit as would Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and the new Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. 
There has been an unjustified increase in the number of ministries, an unjustified increase in the size of the bureaucracy, and this has led in this instance to a demand of the sort set out in this legislation, which is brought before the Parliament at a time when we cannot properly debate it. 
I could go on and try to number them. One can no longer count the parliaments in Australia. One has to use not only one's hands but also one's feet, if one has difficulty through running out of digits. One would need to use a computer to ascertain the number of parliaments, the number of parliamentarians and the number of councillors throughout Australia who govern 14 million people. In talking about structural problems we might be looking at the very problem of a country of 14 million people, over-governed by too many parliaments, too many politicians and too many councillors. What the present Government is doing in pursuing its federalism policy is further developing that trend whereas to the credit of the previous Labor Government, a centralist government, it was endeavouring to arrest that trend. 
I put it to the Senate that although a Government is entitled to determine the number of ministries that it wants, the Government ought not to be permitted to escape the criticism that there are perhaps between one and four unnecessary ministries at present. Instead of bringing this sort of legislation before the Parliament and seeking an increase in expenditure to pay for the increased number of ministries, perhaps the correct way to deal with the problem is to look at the list of ministries and begin to prune. If it were left to me I would soon reduce the number to 20. 
I thought you were referred to as a toe-cutter. I did not really understand what a toe-cutter was until someone described him as a person who used unnecessary  force against another individual. In other words, one who pares a person's nails back to his ankles. That title suits you. It does not rest fairly with me. To get back to the Bill before the Senate, I suggest that even at this late stage it would be far better to consider withdrawing this Bill, going back to the Prime Minister and suggesting to him that the best way to deal with the problem is to cut the Ministry by at least four. 

 Senator Sir REGINALD WRIGHT (Tasmania) (5.5)- The Ministers of State Amendment Bill 1978, which is before the Senate, makes provision for an increase of $23,000 in the amount payable to the Ministry. We are told that this will increase the amount which is available at the moment, which is $302,000, to $325,000. Of course, that Bill has to be read in the light of the fact that it relates to a special salary for Ministers over and above what Ministers receive by way of parliamentary allowances. It would be useful for the Parliament to know, when a Bill of this sort is introduced, what the total cost of the Ministry is, including both the parliamentary and the ministerial allowances as well as the other electoral allowances and the special ministerial allowances. I think that at the present time those allowances bring the total annual emolument for each Minister to between $38,000 and $45,000. We all recognise the tremendous demands made on Ministers. 
The first thing I want to say is that at the Committee stage  I  should like to be informed of the increase in Ministers' staffs over the relevant period. Within the past few days I have had before me a list which I think shows a fairly significant increase in the cost of ministerial staffs over this period. My second observation is that I have advocated that during this period of acute inflation and an attempt to restrain, the Remuneration Tribunal is under an urgent duty to keep parliamentary and ministerial allowances fixed. At any rate, we should index them at a rate no higher than the increases granted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission during the same period. Last year the Government made a submission to the same effect. This year it has made a submission to the same effect. But as I understand this Bill, it seeks to provide for what the Remuneration Tribunal has provided during this interval, whereas I thought the last award provided no increase for ministerial allowances as such. I should have thought that from the point of view of the Ministers themselves such an exiguous amount might have been forgone as an indication that they are prepared to accept that degree of restraint. 
Further, I suggest that there would be far more cohesion, far more effectiveness and far more confidence and strength if our Ministry were composed of 20 Ministers and no more and if they were all in the House of Representatives: and there should be 10 managers of business in the Senate to deal with this chamber's business, with a confidential relationship between the representative Ministers and Senate managers. This should replace the present impossible situation which requires five Ministers, in addition to their primary responsibilities, to represent another 22 Ministers in another chamber. If we are to have the present system this chamber ought to have at least eight Ministers in a Ministry of 27 people. We have reached the stage where the compression to five Ministers in this chamber ought, I think, to excite this chamber to take into serious consideration the principle whereby the business of the Senate would be advantaged if all the Ministers who are responsible for Executive government were in the House of Representatives and the managers, who would be of equal status to the Ministers and would have the responsibility of managing the business of the Senate, were in a confidential relationship with the Ministry, but occupied that degree of independence which the Constitution requires all senators to occupy. 

 - Mr Chairman, I feel obliged to respond to certain remarks that have been made in the Committee stage of the debate on this Bill and seek your indulgence to do so now, otherwise I will have to do so in the third reading stage. It will take the same amount of time. I need to make it clear in support of my leader that neither my leader nor my party at any time came to any formal agreement that we would finish at any particular time. The Whips in this place have a responsibility to ensure that senators are not driven to a point of exhaustion which will interfere and has interfered with their health. The Whips make a judgment, discuss the matter and make some sort of calculation. It is not a firm commitment; it is an understanding. If a senator on this side or the other side of the chamber happens to have a different view about how we should proceed, he is entitled to do so. If necessary, he is entitled to take the amount of time he requires to debate the legislation fully. Neither Whip has imposed any limitation on any senator during the past week. There have been some situations in which Government supporters have been in conflict with each other. 
I would go further and say that such a scheme is dangerous in that it encourages people to refrain from seeking medical advice when they should seek it. I cannot understand how anyone could accept the proposition that people should be encouraged not to seek early treatment. If I am wrong,  Senator Baume  can correct me, but that is what the Bill seems to provide. This seems to be a strange way in which to administer health care. The Bill has nothing to do with insuring motor vehicles. The Ministry used the phrase 'no claim bonus'. If a person driving around in his car runs into a post and damages a fender he says to himself: 'Blow that; I am not going to have it repaired until I do some further damage, otherwise I will lose my no claim bonus'. That sort of principle is now being applied to a health scheme. That seems to me to be dangerous. 
Exactly, and people certainly will not go to have a particular examination which might reveal the early stages of a malignant disease. Even a 6-month postponement of such an investigation could lead to tremendous hurt to the person concerned. What is more, we are talking about cost- that seems to be the element we are most concerned aboutand this system will lead to added cost. 
If  Senator Baume  wishes we can devote some time to this issue because it is important for us clearly to understand what we are about. Of course, the whole problem is that neither the previous Government nor this Government has been prepared to do what is required; namely, to bring the doctors under some form of discipline. It appears that we have a system which has been ripped off in a number of directions. I was completely horrified to find out that so-called respectable voluntary organisations were using the system- ripping off the systemin order to establish themselves and to improve their organisations. I do not doubt that many hospitals have been doing the same. It seems extraordinary that we should deny the ordinary person a service or should increase the cost of a service to an ordinary person in order to prevent these rip-offs. 
These rip-offs appear to me to be straight-out fraud and should be treated as such. We should penetrate into those areas where this fraudulent behaviour takes place. We should not in any way diminish a scheme designed to assist people who are in need. At whatever level, if there is a misuse of the system it ought to be countered. It seems to me that the doctors and the medical profession generally have never really applied themselves. They are in the best position to reduce these costs and these abuses. It seems to me that on an ideological basis- they claim to work upon an ideological basis- they are prepared to ignore these abuses. 
By not treating a person who does not need to be treated, for a start. It would help if a doctor were prepared to be honest about such a person and were to say to him: 'You don't need treatment; don't come back'. But doctors do not do that. Doctors have fallen into a pattern of behaviour. They say: 'It is your responsibility. If you want me to treat you, or if you feel that you, your husband or your children are sick, I will go along with that and charge you accordingly. It is not costing you anything: it is just costing the system'. It would help if the doctors were prepared to take a firm stand on who they treat. Some do, but I might say from what I have heard tonight and over the past few weeks, most do not. 
All right, I shall reverse it: Most do not, but some do. Is that okay? 
The number is sufficient to cause a grave escalation in costs, which has led to the introduction of this sort of legislation which places the burden back on the ordinary person. What else does front-end deductible mean? It seems to me that we have reached a situation where a further cost has to be imposed on the ordinary person and a reasonable health scheme is being destroyed because of a rapacity which could be brought under control by the medical profession. But it does not wish to do that. 
It could do it quite simply by taking a look at the health needs of this country and accepting a proposition which has been put to it, namely, that its members should be paid on the basis of an annual return and they should move away from the principle of fee-for-service. The services they provide to people are gravely disproportionate to the need. They approach their profession in a purely commercial and mechanical way. 1 know that is a dreadful commentary to make about a profession, but that is not the only profession to which that commentary applies. There is the engineering profession-- 
I am pleased to come back to relevancy, at the Minister's request. One does become inflamed by the revelation of the extraordinary costs which have developed and which  Senator Baume  has exposed. Our endeavour to correct the situation by placing costs upon those who should be the last to bear them is ridiculous. I do not know that my remarks are relevant at this stage- if I say now what I want to say I will not have to say it later- but the means of collecting fees is not improving the situation one scrap. In fact, it will increase the abuse. I am returning to the point. Wc should bc looking at a complete restructuring- that is the in word -of the medical profession and of the health system in this country. These Bills in no way improve the situation; in fact they are making the situation worse in an abhorrent and inhumane way. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
Does the Government plan to dismiss more than 1,000 permanent employees and 2,000 casual employees of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation to allow Defence Froces staff to operate canteens on a part time basis; if so, what are the reasons for this decision, and what actions does the Government plan to take to ensure that all the workers displaced by the decision are able to find alternative employment. 
Before moving that the debate be adjourned I would like to speak briefly on this matter. Important statements are being brought down. In view of the long time taken to read the Budget Speech perhaps we should accept the incorporation of these statements, but we do so with reluctance. 
-No, I am not refusing leave. I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Senator Guilfoyle)  agreed to: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The Bill before the Senate is one in which the Opposition takes great interest. We do not oppose the purpose of the Bill. However we would, of course, like to consider it in depth. It is quite possible that the amendment which my leader will propose will improve the Bill. For that reason, I concede to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt). 
-My question to the Attorney-General refers to the investigation which he, as Attorney-General, and the SolicitorGeneral carried out concerning that redistribution in Queensland. Can he inform the Senate whether any relevant information was withheld from him during that investigation, and by whom? 
-If the Opposition had no other justification for bringing forward this matter of public importance, the speech by  Senator Bonner  would have been justification enough because it has given him today an opportunity to make what I consider to be one of the best speeches he has made in this place.  His  speech went very much to the heart of the matter; that is, that after all this time, after debate and counter debate and after legislation has passed through this Parliament, the Aurukun people and the Mornington Island people find themselves worse off than they were before. It is with some comfort that we find that there is general unanimity and agreement in this place, as was indicated by the first speech on this matter and, of course, by the speech made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle). 
It is very difficult to take a view contrary to that of the Government on this matter. If one were to play politics one could attack the Government and perhaps the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for failing to understand that there is no way in which it is possible to come to agreement with the Queensland Government because the Queensland Government comprises people who do not understand what it is to give their word and to keep it. What has happened to date shows fairly clearly that in the first place the Federal Government should have done what it intended to do and should not have placed so much trust in those people who are and who have proven themselves to be so untrustworthy. I wish to read into the record again a telegram which was sent to the Minister at the time of the passage through the Queensland Parliament of the legislation with which we are concerned. It read: 
We are still extremely unhappy with legislation. We arc disappointed and sad that you could not get what you promised. Legislation has taken away self management. We are worse off than before. We are prepared to work under legislation subject to review in six months by you. 
The tragedy of it is that the people of Mornington Island and Aurukun were not even allowed the six months which they were prepared to suffer in co-operation with the Queensland Government because of the arbitrary reaction of the Queensland Premier who has not so much a wild imagination as a dangerous imagination. He confuses his imaginings with reality and many of his decisions are based on those imaginings to the detriment not only of the Aurukun and Mornington Island people but also to the detriment of us all. 
I take merely a few minutes to speak in this debate to allow subsequent speakers to speak for the IS minutes which is allocated to them. It is a great pity that in debating these matters of public importance we have limited ourselves to a debate of two hours. Perhaps at some future date we should look at this because it is excluding many honourable senators from entering into this debate and voicing an opinion similar to those which have been reinforced already. Honourable senators might ask: Why is it necessary for further honourable senators to speak? It is necessary for the Queensland Government and the Australian people to appreciate that there is widespread concern about the actions of the 
Queensland Government and the plight of the Aurukun and Mornington Island people. Each voice that is raised in this place is one more voice that will convince people that the present situation cannot continue. 
What is it that the Aurukun people seek? What is it that the Mornington Island people seek? They seek self-management of their affairs. We warned that this local government formula could not possibly work. We warned that it would be interfered with and that we were thrusting upon a simple people, intelligent in their simplicity- I do not use the word 'simple' in a derogatory sense- a means of management which they did not understand, which they did not want and which, in the circumstances, was completely unnecessary. What they want is at the heart of everything that they seek- and not without justice. They seek to have self-management. They seek to re-establish their very close bond with the land. They seek land rights. Where better can we give them land rights with full sympathy and understanding than in areas such as Aurukun and Mornington? Where better can we give them those rights so they can frustrate those who seek to exploit Aboriginal land to the disadvantage of the Aborigines and to destroy the environment in which they live. 
I could say much more. I know others could say much more. I am glad that I intervened in this debate for a short moment to express my view. I could say some very harsh things about the Queensland Premier. I have said them before. I have tested your patience,  Mr President.  Our Standing Orders are much more enlightened than the Standing Orders of the Queensland Parliament, which allow members of this Parliament to be abused without any limitation. When we endeavour to respond- perhaps we should not respond in kind- we find ourselves limited by our Standing Orders. 
I know. The honourable senator warned me of that during the adjournment debate some time ago. Nevertheless, our patience often is tried. To be insulted, abused and vilified by members of the Queensland Parliament and then to find that we must restrain ourselves is, I think, a restraint that weighs very heavily upon people such as myself who react often in a boisterous way. Let me not confuse the issue. We need support for the Mornington people and the Aurukun people. Under our Constitution this Parliament has certain powers. If the people are not to receive the rights they seek- perhaps under the law they might receive the rights- this Parliament must act quickly without any further delay. 
-In spite of this proposed change, the position has always been that the Senate could be called upon to make a final decision. I believe that on one occasion that occurred. Nevertheless, one must appreciate that there is a responsibility on the Opposition to use its good sense- this was well expressed tonight by our leader,  Senator Wriedt-  to make some provision for the minority and independent groups. Honourable senators must realise of course that it should not be done in such a way that the role of the Opposition is affected. After all, we do not have a coalition on this side. The Liberal Party has a comfortable arrangement whereby it is in coalition with the National Country Party. 
It is not comfortable, but on matters of arrangement their problems are less difficult than ours. One must realise that if provision is made for the minority groups and the Independents and it is formalised it will give an extraordinary right to the minority group to determine in which committee it shall participate, and that may mean the exclusion of members of the Opposition who have served on those committees for quite some time. We must realise that members of the Opposition, as individual senators, have a right. However, I am perfectly certain that if the spirit of the Standing Order is accepted as is intended there will not be any difficulties. As far as the Estimates committees are concerned, any honourable senator can attend those committees and participate to the fullest extent. There is that right for senators to attend Estimates committees. There is a little more difficulty with the Senate standing committees because they travel around. Although every senator has a right to participate in those standing committees and to ask questions, he or she has a problem - 
-That is right. They have a problem in that they do not have access to the support they need to cover some costly arrangements in order to travel from here to, say, Western Australia and stay for a week. The fares, of course, can be met from another source. Nevertheless daily expenses are a cost against the senator. One will find, however, that the senators in the Independent group have the same limitations of time that we have, and for that reason I do not doubt that their requests will be modest and able to be easily met. So the Opposition has taken the view which was so well expressed by our leader. However, I put it to the Committee that at no time should the rights of the Opposition be in any way limited. It has a role to play in the parliamentary system which is firmly embedded in the traditions and conventions. 
The minority groups have a difficulty in that they are not a part of the official Opposition as such. In the speaking lists on debates they are, by arrangement, generally slotted in according to the position they are taking in the debate. That means that they may by arrangement be on the Government list on one occasion and on the next occasion they may be on the Opposition list. They have that latitude and the freedom, which other senators do not have, to change their views from day to day according to their view of the matter before the Senate. Again I say to new senators that the sort of debate in which we are participating tonight, there being a free vote, is one of the rare debates which one can enter and vote on at will. Fortunately we do not get down to any severe disagreements. As the Government Whip said, there are times when one finds oneself voting very closely with a person whom one would normally oppose. 
-I support with less enthusiasm than  Senator Chaney  the proposition that has been put forward. I believe that the spirit of co-operation which is evident in the Committee at present will not be so evident at some future time when political reality is a little more pressing. There is a possibility that the Government will resist the transfer or referral of legislation to a standing committee. The legislation, treated in the way that it is treated at present, is the property of the Government. We will reach a stage where the Government will need its legislation, will seek to expedite it and will resist referring it to a standing committee. The proposition put by  Senator Wriedt,  that legislation should be considered by committees before it reaches the second reading stage, is a good one. It allows for the Bill to be properly scrutinised and for outside considerations, such as witnesses to appear and submissions to be made, which may in the long term serve us well. 
Another thing I fear is that the proposition, if implemented, may destroy the goodwill that exists in the standing committees, the goodwill that is established when a committee has before it an investigation on which it is united in achieving a result- for instance, a reference on drug trafficking and drug abuse. There is a common purpose in that committee to investigate to the fullest and come to a reasonable decision. Of course there may be an occasion when the Opposition takes the view that legislation should be resisted at all costs and will endeavour to delay it. That would be a reasonable political tactic in which it could engage. I suspect that it was a tactic in which the present Government engaged on one or two occasions when in Opposition. 
The honourable senator interjects: 'Never'. I happened to be the  chairman  of one of those committees and from time to time 1 had a sense that there were some inordinate delays. If that is to be the procedure I would prefer that the standing committees take on a special role of dealing with legislation, perhaps to the exclusion of certain references. We should go back to the appointment of special or select committees for certain types of references. That would relieve the load of the standing committees. It would alter the character of the standing committees, but they would then be what we intend them to be by the proposition that has been put forward tonight. They would be committees investigating the legislation that is passing through the Parliament. I have no objection to that. There are some problems which may arise. The committees may become overloaded. The Government will have to accept the proposition that certain references which take up so much time of the standing committees may need to be referred by the committee concerned to a select committee. Its early recommendation may need to be that the matter under investigation is of such a complex nature, so many submissions have been received and so much time is likely to be taken up that it ought to be referred to a select committee. 
I hope that the Committee will take in hand the possibility of there being an increase in the appointment of select committees. I do not doubt that the Senate would have the capacity to take on it that extra work. It would certainly relieve the standing committees of that type of reference. Let us not mislead ourselves. These references of Government Business to standing committees in certain situations may lead to delaying tactics from those committees and may lead to much more partisan behaviour by those committees than exists at present. As long as we understand that, let us proceed with the proposal. 
I will be brief,  Mr President,  because I wish to allow  Senator Mulvihill  to speak. However, it is necessary to make the point that  Senator Button  may have misrepresented the position of senators. It will be recalled that there was a debate in this place during which some substantial submissions were made. My information is that the Privileges Committee took that debate into account and that unless we had something to add there was really not much point in appearing before the Committee. I want to make that clear. I am pleased to see that common sense has prevailed and that during the period we have been absent from this place the rather horrendous proposals in the Presiding Officers' statement have not been carried out. Some rather constructive work has been done in regard to the security of this place. It was not just from some terrorist act that we needed to be protected; we needed to be protected from other hazards. 
I am pleased to say that I have received a letter signed by the Usher of the Black Rod concerning the security of Parliament House and certain evacuation procedures in case of fire and other emergencies. That program, that scheme and the layout of those proposals are in keeping with what the Senate desires. The proposals have been properly determined. Whoever was responsible for the layout of the proposals is to be commended. In particular it is to be commended that this has been done in an unobtrusive manner. That is what we have been trying to get at. The security of this place should have been tightened up. It has been tightened up but it should not be obvious that this has been done. 
I make the point that if at any time this place has to be evacuated because of a scare, I hope that the work of the two chambers will not be affected and that we will not suddenly find ourselves having to submit to a plan of evacuation because some lunatic has rung up and said that a bomb happens to be placed in the basement. I take it that in those circumstances when the Houses are in session they would continue to sit whereas the rest of the Parliament might need to be evacuated. 
All I can say to that is that unless honourable senators are prepared to take the risk they ought not to be here. A caper in some establishments in Brisbane is that whenever people want a half-day off work someone rings up and creates a scare. Then everyone just traipses out of the building and spends the rest of the afternoon in the local park. I am not suggesting that we should evacuate for the slightest reason and spend our time in the rose gardens. What has been done in a commonsense way is acceptable. 
I raise another point which relates to identification. I am not talking about the identification of parliamentarians. It seems to me that the identification of a person is necessary for that person to gain access to certain areas. But once that person gains access to those areas surely it is not necessary for that person to wear rather prominently a badge which, especially for women, is not in keeping with the rest of that person's outfit. It seems to me obnoxious that our guests should have to wear those badges in the dining room. Suerly once they enter that area the badge could be put away. 
-That is another matter with which I shall deal individually. The point I am making is that it seems ridiculous to have over-identification. It is ridiculous also to have an attendant of this place, who by his office is given a special type of identification in the form of a uniform, required to wear a badge also. It is ridiculous also for a policeman with his badge of office, namely, his uniform, having to wear further identification. To my mind that is overdoing it. I would like honourable senators also to take very much into consideration the proposition that if we are to secure this place and to do it in a sensible way so that it is not apparent, the wearing of those identification badges unnecessarily should be discouraged. I make the point also that honourable senators should check up and find out how many badges have been issued. I would say that practically every citizen in Canberra has a badge. 
Nevertheless, perhaps this is a matter which can be corrected as quickly as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 June 1 978: 
1 ) What funds have been allocated to the Commonwealth Employment Service for advertisements similar to that which appeared on page 6 of the  Financial Review,  22 May 1978. 
How much ofthe allocation detailed in (1 ) has so far been spent, and in which newspapers have the advertisements appeared. 
3 ) To whom are the advertisements chiefly directed. 
Are there any plans to increase this form of advertising; if so, what are the details. 
Are similar advertisements appearing on television and radio; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
1 ) What funds, if any, does the Commonwealth Government provide, either directly or indirectly, for the Queensland Government's Youth Employment Support Scheme, administered by the Queensland Department of Children 's Services. 
What liaison, if any, was there between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments prior to the establishment of this scheme. 
What continuing liaison is there between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments relating to this scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) Are the seasonally adjusted unemployment figures up to and including1 April 1978, prepared by  Dr Allan  Hall of the Australian National University and published in the  Financial Review,  23 May 1 978, accurate. 
Will the Government consider reintroducing the preparation and publication of seasonally adjusted statistics. 
I seek leave to ask a question concerning formulation of those committees. 
Leave granted. 
-It seems from the announcement of membership of the committees that there is no nomination for membership from the minority party which terms itself the Australian Democrats. Is that because it has not made any nomination? The Opposition by arrangement made provision for  Senator Mason  to take his place on the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment. If he has not formally done so perhaps it can be left for another occasion. 
I must commend  Senator Walsh  for contributing to this debate, on such short notice, in such an intelligent and resourceful way. I wish to add a few comments. I have not the expertise or the economic experience to support an argument in the way that  Senator Walsh  has done. However, I think it is reasonable to say from an ordinary layman's point of view that the 12.5 per cent which has been imposed as a special additional levy on imports of certain finished goods is, to my mind, counter-productive to the intention which the Government has stated. The Schedule seems to refer to many items but on the last page it refers briefly to passenger motor vehicles and it does so on two occasions under two different classifications. It seems to me extraordinary that the Government should decide to reduce the rate of sales tax on vehicles from 2 7 te per cent to 15 per cent in order to stimulate the car industry and, in the words of the Government, to give some incentive to people to purchase vehicles by giving what on the surface is an attractive reduction in price. It will not work that way. It just does not ever work that way. The 12.5 per cent surcharge will lift the price of new cars imported into this country by 12.5 per cent. The Australian industry, whose sales have dropped considerably in the past because of the economic recession, will seek to recover its position. We will find that the price of Australian cars will start to move up to the price of imported cars, either at the point of manufacture or at the point of distribution. So really nothing has been gained, except the introduction into the economy of what I consider to be a highly inflationary measure. 
If we look at the list of commodities to which the 12.5 per cent levy will apply we find that it begins with a very interesting item, namely, brandy. It then goes on to mention pilches. As we move down the list we find some very substantial consumer items which concern the every day family, including woven shirts, knitted undergarment shirts, babies napkins, women's blouses, knitted coats, female outer garments, dressing gowns, swim wear, men's shorts, men's trousers. So we see that protection is being re-introduced to the textile industry. Although the textile industry in Australia has clamoured for it in the past, in the present circumstances it is unnecessary and to my mind highly inflationary. I cannot for the life of me understand why the Government- I think  Senator Walsh  has properly explained the situation- should impose this protection in such away. 
I may sound repetitive, but I think honourable senators will understand why at times I become repetitive. Sometimes, of course, my purpose is to fill in time while waiting for a certain result to be achieved. It is my responsibility to move the amendment which the Australian Labor Party moved in the House of Representatives. There is a game which is played on the radio and which is called  Just a Minute.  The rules of that game are that a player should not repeat himself, should not pause and should not deviate. I have done all of those things, so I probably would not be very good al thai game! I trust that Iiic amendment is now being circulated. When I get a copy of it I will formally move it. 
The Opposition does not intend to divide the Senate on this amendment. Government senators are possibly wondering why this week the Opposition has not divided the Senate on amendments. We on this side take the view that the House can take a week to settle down. Next week we will be dividing the Senate because I believe it is a procedure which we ought not to neglect. No matter how much we wish to cooperate, I feel it is necessary under the forms of the Senate to call for a division on important amendments. I am not speaking about trivial amendments. Amendments such as this one should be the subject of a division. 
We in the Opposition might even possibly decide to remind the Government that it is responsible for the state of the House. I think it would be quite unfair if we were not to remind the Government of that responsibility from time to time. I think I have mentioned before that it is a sad reflection on the part of the Government on the  President  if, while he is in the chamber, he is not supported by a reasonable number of senators in attendance. For that reason, we give Government senators the necessary notice that while the  President  is in the chair, and perhaps for other reasons, from time to time we may draw attention to the state of the House. I do not intend to give support to my  deputy  who at the present dme is trying to get me to draw attention to the state of the House. I move the following amendment: 
Leave out all words after 'That ', insert: the Senate declines to give the Bill a second reading until the Government gives the House a satisfactory explanation, inter alia, as to- 
whether the Bill is in conflict with section 23 (3) and section 23 (4) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act; 
why the Bill disregards the commitments accepted by Australia as signatory to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade; and 
what machinery will be used to ensure that the additional Customs duty will be paid from "monopoly profits" and will not be added to the price of the goods concerned '. 
I trust that the House will consider that amendment and give it the support that is necessary. 

 - Mr Deputy President, on each occasion I have sought to congratulate you on your elevation to the office of  Chairman  of Committees there has been a sudden change in the occupancy of the chair, and I have not had the opportunity of so doing. I take now the opportunity of repeating what I have said in the corridors. I look on your appointment with considerable satisfaction. I have served with you on committees. I think I have even inflicted myself upon you as  chairman  of a committee. Now you have your chance to get your revenge. I commend you for the honour which the Senate has bestowed upon you. I do not doubt that your tolerance and patience will be all to our advantage. I am certain that we will not take advantage of it. 
Tonight the Senate has a choice of listening to me speak on the report of the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence or the next subject on the Notice Paper which is a report of the Public Accounts Committee. As we are now approaching the time at which we adjourn perhaps I can spend some time on the report of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. It is a pity that we have to speak on this excellent report a year after it was presented.  Senator Sim  has enhanced his reputation considerably, as  Chairman  of the Committee. Although I do not agree with him 90 per cent of the time I accept that he has done a good job as  Chairman  of the Committee. In particular, I enjoyed the previous report which the Committee brought down when the Prime Minister  (Mr. Malcolm Fraser)  was endeavouring to establish that there was a Soviet threat in the Indian Ocean. What happened? The Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence under the chairmanship of  Senator Sim  came down with the opposite conclusion- that there was no threat. It took a lot of courage on the part of the Committee and the  Chairman  to bring down such a report. As a result  Senator Sim's  reputation has been enhanced not only in the Senate but also on an international level. We cannot claim that he is pro-Soviet, but we can claim that he is impartial and that he has the courage of his convictions. For that reason the 
Committee can be trusted, with any reference given to it, to come down with the truth as it sees it depending upon the evidence which has been presented to it. 
The Senate is a lame Senate this week. It has 10 new members. That means that 15 per cent of the Senate can make only a limited participation at present because the new members have as yet not made their maiden speeches. They have had to put up with the old members of the Senate. I trust that after next Wednesday we will have to put up with them. If this week has been rather a docile week it has been for that reason. Things will liven up next week. I now refer to the Committee's report on the reference to it on the South Pacific. To all of us in the Senate the South Pacific is one of those vague, grey areas. We know that there are some newly emerged nations in the area. We know that they are very small. We often wonder why we establish their right to independence. The Senate has debated this matter on many occasions and has accepted that even the people of East Timor have the right to independence, self-management and nationhood. That applies to all countries, no matter how small they may have been or how little their chance of economic viability. We recognise the rights of small countries to independence and their right to establish their own type of society. 
I agree that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee is important and that it ought to receive the flexibility referred to by  Senator Primmer  and subsequently supported by  Senator Sim.  A committee of this sort needs to move in order to obtain the evidence and experience it needs to present a balanced report. It may be necessary to extend to this Committee the right to travel within the region of its reference, in this case the South Pacific. The Committee has brought down a substantial and intelligent report despite great difficulty, but how much better would that report have been if the Committee had been able to go to the areas with which it was concerned and with which Australia is concerned. I think that the Senate would accept that this Committee ought to have the right to travel within the area of our influence. This is not an undue influence. It is an influence which we can use to the best advantage to assist the countries which are referred to in the report. 
Those of us who have sympathy with  Senator Sim  are most certainly in favour of the Committee being given those facilities. It is not satisfactory that members of the Committee should travel as indivduals in their own time and pick up in a disjointed way the experience they need. We have heard from  Senator Davidson, Senator Mcintosh, Senator Sim  and others who have travelled independently in the area. They travelled without the facilities necessary, the research support, to draw out of the area all the information required to present a report to the Senate. 
I now refer to the operations of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Perhaps we should alter the words Defence and Foreign Affairs' to 'Peace and Foreign Affairs', particularly with regard to the Senate Committee. The approach of the Senate Committee has been to seek a common understanding. It seems to me that peace is the best sort of understanding and the best sort of defence. That has been my argument continually. We ought to accept that peace, understanding and communication between nations is the best way in which we can support our own defence. To  Senator Sim  the word 'peace' might bring an association of ideas, a reaction or even a revulsion, but I suggest to him that it is not such a horrid word.  His  whole approach to the references which have been given to his Committee has been such that he has accepted that peace and understanding are the best solution to the problem. That stands out in all his reports. 
I should like in the five minutes- I repeat in the five minutes- that I have left to speak to refer to one of the submissions which was given to the Comittee. It was a very good submission by a young man who, I believe, has a future. He is not with the Parliament at present. He served as an assistant to a senator. He is now a research assistant to the Attorney-General in New South Wales. I refer to Ian Macdonald who presented a submission to the Committee called 'The Australian Connection: Investment Trade and Aid in the South Pacific'. He went to a considerable amount of trouble to present this report. When former  Senator Cotton  was a Minister in this place he asked about the background to the report and commended the young man who prepared it. The amount of work and research that went into this submission indicates a growing interest in the area by the young men and women of Australia. If the rest of the submissions were of this standard the Committee would have had good material on which to base what has turned out to be an excellent report. 
The frontispiece of the submission contains a couple of quotations which I think ought to go into the record. The first quotation is from the Melbourne  Age  of 18 April 1977, in which the Prime Minister of Fiji, Ratu  Sir Kamisese  Mara is reported to have said: 
I think Australia is helping us because it is a rich country and not because it has respect Tor us. 
This might have been so before the Committee reported, but I think it would be less so now that the Senate Standing Committee has considered the area and presented a report on it. I would say that that would be a statement which the Prime Minister of Fiji would be less likely to make now. This is the importance of the Committee, its reference, and the report that it has brought down. 
A further quotation appears in the frontispiece of  Mr Macdonald  's submission. It is of a statement made by John Garrett in a paper entitled Australia in the Pacific: A Christian Interrogation', which appeared in  St Mark's Review  of March 1977, Number 89, at page 36. It reads:   . . virtually all Pacific island cultures are subtle in their ability to assess the motivation and character  or  givers. A great gift in many Pacific cultures normally  pre-supposes  that in politeness the recipient will respond spontaneously at some later time. The fact that gifts have hidden strings is therefore understood by Pacific governments. Being small, and used to the game in economies where relationships were forged by courteous barter, they will look skilfully for what underlies the gifts. If Australian giving is matched by a change of heart, increased ability to listen and learn, the power to say sorry for aspects of the past and to make amends, the giving will be enhanced by trust. 
I think that the record of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is one which will be enhanced by trust. The debate on this report tonight under General Business is worthy of the Committee and its report. Perhaps too few speakers have participated in the debate and too few honourable senators have known the background of the report. Of course, that is because we are a new Senate. I do not doubt that the Committee will receive further references from the Senate and that it will deal with them as effectively as it has done on this occasion. For that reason, I commend all honourable senators who were members of the Committee and trust that at an early opportunity we shall give them another reference with which they will deal just as effectively. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave- On behalf of  Senator Ryan  I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave for  Senator Ryan  to make her remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- On a point of procedure, I want it to be clear that  Senator Gietzelt  withdrew the request to continue his remarks. In fact the position now is that the papers have been tabled and three senators have spoken by leave. It is therefore the right of any honourable senator to raise matters concerning these papers by some other form or procedure. In particular, this matter now will not appear upon the Notice Paper in any way, which may limit further debate on it. 
I take this opportunity to convey to the Government that the expeditious way in which the Opposition has supported the Bill is a token of our co-operation for this day and perhaps for this day alone. 
-Not always. I rose tonight only because I do not want the Government to be misled. I also point out that we have expedited someone else's salaries and not our own. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. If we appear to pursue him, may I advise him that the matter is serious? Evidence of that is  Senator Withers  sitting in his place at the moment. I again ask the Minister the question I asked him on 7 June. I asked: 
If he knew between 10 April and 23 April of  Senator Withers'  involvement, why did he not broaden the Commission's terms of reference then? 
I also asked the Attorney-General whether he was allowing himself to become enmeshed in the errors of others. I now ask him to deny that his advice on 23 April was made in such a way as to ensure that no reference to  Senator Withers  was made public at that stage, in spite of the fact that he knew of it. I now ask: Was this pan of an arrangement to misdirect the Royal Commission? 
-I direct a question to the Attorney-General. In view of the answer which the Attorney gave to  Senator Button  earlier today that it was his understanding as at 23 April that  Senator Withers'  action in phoning  Mr Pearson  regarding the naming of the seat of the Gold Coast was not done on behalf of  Mr Eric  Robinson, why were the terms of reference drafted so as to exclude a finding that  Senator Withers'  action was on behalf of much wider interests than those of  Mr Robinson? 
We are debating the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill 1978. The Bill has a variety of purposes in that it provides for certain tax exemptions in relation to a variety of goods. Those honourable senator's who have had access to the short digest of Bills will appreciate its purposes. However, there is one area with which I wish to concern myself briefly; that is the exemption from sales tax of sun screen preparations certified effective against ultra violet rays. It seems to me extraordinary that we should take all this time to appreciate the inequity of imposing sales tax upon such a very important product. When it is considered that this country is one whose population is prone to skin cancer, it is easy to accept the very important move which is being taken by means of this legislation. 
I merely commend this particular exemption. I merely say that those honourable senators who have had any medical experience would appreciate the importance of that exemption.  Senator Coleman  intended to speak at great length on this particular point, but unfortunately she is not able to be here until tonight. So, on my own behalf, on behalf of  Senator Coleman  and, I take it, on behalf of every honourable senator, I commend this particular exemption. As for the other matters covered by the Bill, other honourable senators may like to attract the Senate 's attention to the changes which are proposed. 
That is the first time in my experience that the first reading of a money Bill has been relevant to the subject of the Bill itself. I congratulate  Senator Evans  for that. 
-Senator Tate. I beg the Senate's pardon. They are both new senators. I do not think I have congratulated them on their maiden speeches as yet; I do so now. I believe that we will hear much from both of them. I am certain that  Senator Tate  tonight has given some indication of what a Whip really needs in the Senate- someone who can talk with knowledge and with considerable expertise on a variety of subjects.  His  maiden speech I thought was excellent. He then spoke on the Excise Amendment Bill in a way which attracted the congratulations of  Senator Young  and now tonight he has spoken on the Pig Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill, It is popularly known here as the 'Pigs Laughter Bill' because on each occasion that it comes before the Senate we talk of all things irrelevant. But it was for  Senator Tate  to be relevant. I do believe from listening to him that he was twigging us somewhat towards the end of his speech. I will drift back into irrelevance, possibly because there are other speakers to follow and one finds oneself in the usual position in which a Whip finds himself, of connecting the previous speech with the next speech. 
I wish to deal with something which I consider to be a serious matter. I am pleased,  Mr President,  that you happen to be in the chair at the moment. I want to attract your attention to a section of the Constitution. Of course I am no constitutional expert but recently something occurred to me in Queensland and my attention was attracted to this section by the counsel whom I engaged to defend me on the charge that was brought against me by the Queensland Police. I found on advice that I had to treat the matter very seriously because a member of Parliament when he faces a charge before the courts has to consider carefully what consequences may flow from such a charge. The section of the Constitution to which my attention was drawn is section 44 which reads: 
Any person who 
Is attainted of treason, or has been convicted and is under sentence, or subject to be sentenced, for any offence punishable under the law of the Commonwealth or of a State by imprisonment for one year or longer: shall be incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. 
I do not think that has ever been put to the test. Nevertheless the opinion of counsel given to me was that one need not be subject to be sentenced for any offence punishable under the law of the Commonwealth or of a State and does not need to be imprisoned for one year or longer. The Constitution merely says that anyone who is convicted of an offence for which the penalty is . . . shall be incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. Let us take for example the possibility that one of the three offences with which I was charged and subsequently acquitted- fortunately- had a penalty of 12 months imprisonment or more. Then, under this section of the Constitution, I would have been incapable of continuing to sit in this place. Fortunately, not any one of those offences carried a penalty of 12 months imprisonment, but they did carry a penalty of 6 months imprisonment. It was brought to my notice that if the charge had been not under the civil code under the Traffic Act but under the Criminal Code, one offence, resisting arrest, would have carried a maximum penalty of two years imprisonment. If I had been convicted of that offence, under the Constitution I would have forfeited my seat even though the penalty I received may have been just 24 hours gaol or some other penalty. But, having been convicted for that offence under that Code, I would have forfeited my seat. 
I consider this matter to be serious because 1 do not think many members or senators are aware of section 44 (ii), nor do they realise the consequences which may flow. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was charged for fishing in a restricted area, I do not think he was aware of the consequences which could have flowed from that charge if he had been convicted in the court. I do not know whether the subsequent action which he took to defend himself was a result of someone attracting his attention to section 44 (ii). If he was advised to have himself suitably protected, he received good advice indeed. 
The problem needs to be emphasised because so many offences these days carry a substantial penalty. Several members of Parliament to my knowledge have been caught in a situation in which perhaps they have had one drink too many and have been apprehended and brought before the courts. The penalty in Queensland for driving under the influence is a maximum of nine months imprisonment. The penalty for a second offence is a maximum of 18 months imprisonment. These are State offences. If a member of Parliament is brought before the court a second time, although he may not receive 18 months imprisonment he would still receive a penalty under the State code. Then of course he would forfeit his seat if the provision is interpreted as it was interpreted to me. There are now many offences for which the penalties have been escalated. Perhaps one may be caught committing the simple offence of having possession of a prohibited drug. In the circumstances of which I speak that could lead to a member forfeiting his seat in this Parliament. 
I ask you,  Mr President,  whether at some time someone can pay some attention to the consequences which may flow from this constitutional provision. I want someone on one of our committees, perhaps the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, to take a look at this matter. In view of the circumstances in which I found myself, I consider the matter to be a serious consideration. Perhaps the interpretation of the provision given to me is not the interpretation which is meant. No member should ignore that section and the Senate ought not to ignore that section. Perhaps at an early opportunity we may be able to obtain some ruling for the protection of members in this place. We are coming under considerable pressure in the community as we seek to carry out our responsibilities. Sometimes some of us may be a little overenthusiastic. This may lead to a conviction which may lead to a forfeiture of our place in this Parliament. There may be people who are vindictive who may seek to place us in a position in which we receive such a penalty which may lead to the forfeiture of our positions in the Parliament. 
I move from that to a more domestic matter which may be debated in this place but which is not as yet on the Notice Paper. It arises from a statement which you made,  Mr President,  this morning concerning the employment of a person in the catering section of the Parliament. I do not want to canvass the rights and wrongs of that case at this stage. That may be done at a later stage. Again I take this opportunity to put a case to you,  Mr President.  I ask: Why does not the House Committee play a more effective role in the running of this Parliament? I may be misjudging the House Committee because I have had no experience on the House Committee. 
Recently I was elected to the House Committee. I consider that appointment to be as important as any other election to any other committee. The secretariats of other committees to which I have been appointed immediately on my appointment have given me considerable information as to when meetings are held, the rules under which they are held- the Standing Orders, for instance. Secretaries have given me copies of past minutes and some indication of future programs and sittings. It is some time since I was appointed to the House Committee and I have had no contact whatsoever from anyone who is responsible. At this moment I would not know, although I am listed on the Notice Paper as a member of the House Committee, who is the Secretary of the House Committee or who is the  Chairman.  This neglect has been brought to my notice because of the incident which occurred, if I can understate it by saying that it was an incident. It is a very serious matter that has developed in the Parliament where the Parliament is without a catering service. 
I would have thought that the House Committee would have been consulted in some way concerning this problem and that it could have heard some sort of report and made a judgment on the matter. One of my colleagues on the House Committee said that the House Committee has merely an advisory role; it has no role other than an advisory role. It merely is called to meet when someone believes it is necessary to call that Committee together. I have also been advised that the Committee has no powers, that the powers rest in the Presiding Officers. If that is the case I have been seriously misled. Perhaps I should not have sought membership of the House Committee. I thought that the House Committee would have a far more satisfactory role than that. I appreciate the statutory responsibility for this place rests with the two Presiding Officers. But if the Parliament has considered it necessary to have a House Committee I would have thought that the House Committee would have been used to its best effect by the Presiding Officers and that they would not neglect it, disregard it or not consider it. 
Two very important aspects have arisen here. Firstly, the security of Parliament House is involved. I would have thought that the House Committee would have been consulted in some way and that not only the Privileges Committee, not only the Prime Minister but also the House Committee as such would have had some important role to play. In view of the industrial problem that we face at the present time I would have thought that the House Committee would have been called together at the first opportunity to discuss the matter. After all, there would be a considerable number of people on the Committee who would be able to give some sort of advice to those who are responsible for the  supervision of our staff. When I say 'our staff', I mean the staff who work in co-operation with us to make this place run. I also would have thought that, as has happened on other occasions with other committees of which I have been a member, members of the House Committee would have been in a better position as a group to consult with the person concerned and perhaps to advise him not so much of his responsibility but of the unreasonable attitude that he may be taking when everybody is considered, not just a consideration of himself and himself alone. 
I may now appear to be rambling. I do not wish to ramble. All I want to do is to make the point that the House Committee ought not be to disregarded and that at the earliest opportunity it should be called together to consider this very important matter. 1 could go on to another matter, but I believe that  Senator Primmer  wishes to speak. I am certain that he will speak for at least the eight minutes that remain before the adjournment question is put. I believe that there is another  speaker  who wishes to follow. I can see by the look in  Senator Primmer  's eyes that he now has the message. I thank you,  Mr President,  for listening to me so patiently. I am pleased to have been able to put before you two matters which I consider to be very important indeed. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate able to inform the Senate of the popularity of the various parties in New South Wales based upon their performance? So that he can give an informative answer, I ask: Is he aware that the recent Morgan poll - 
I thank the honourable senator. Is the Minister aware that the Morgan poll in today's  Bulletin  shows the Australian Labor Party's popularity rating at 61 per cent, the Liberal Party's rating at 25 per cent and the National Country Party's rating at 4 per cent? That is a total rating for the Liberal and National Country parties of 29 per cent, as against the Australian Labor Party rating which, I repeat, is 61 per cent. Can the Minister explain those figures? Can he give some reason why such support is flowing to the Labor Party in New South Wales? 
-I welcome the opportunity to speak to the motion which is before us. I have not seen the report of the interdepartmental committee, but it seems to me that it is a report that should have been produced quite a number of years ago. If this had occurred, some decisions to assist these people would have flowed. There is no doubt that the South Sea Islanders form a special group that has been in some way ignored. It has not been properly recognised that this group has been caught up in the area of discrimination against the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islands people. For many years this group has been caught up in this discrimination and deprivation. The assistance which has lately flowed to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islands people has been denied to the South Pacific Islanders. 
My view, and I think the view of all, is that perhaps this was not the intention, that perhaps the assistance given to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people should also have flowed to the South Pacific Islanders. Perhaps  Senator Bonner  will take the opportunity, in the few minutes that are available, to give us his opinion on this. I think it is very important that the Senate should consider immediately the provision of some form of assistance- assistance at the same level as is being given to the Aboriginal people. I know that the deprivation of the Aboriginal has been very severe and deep-rooted, as his culture is in the very land itself. Perhaps the South Sea Islanders have not the same kinship with the soil. Nevertheless, they have suffered alongside the Aboriginal people. Perhaps the Act which seeks to assist the Aboriginal people is limited and cannot be used in assisting Pacific Islanders. 
If that is the case, I would like to be informed of it. My view is that the assistance should have flowed readily and easily to the Pacific Islanders. I cannot quite understand why it has not. 
-Whatever the other reasons may have been, now is the time to expose them, so we can put them under scrutiny and make some quick decisions. I think  Senator Cavanagh  will agree that the South Pacific Islanders have been in an underprivileged position. There has been a very strong element of racism throughout Australia. We are endeavouring to recover from that, but the Pacific Islanders, with other peoples, have been caught in the trap of discrimination. The few words that I have had to say at this time have been directed towards the Government, through the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  with a view to having prompt attention paid to the plight of these people. 
I do not know what are the recommendations of the report. It appeared suddenly, as most reports and statements suddenly appear in this place. I am not being critical. I am saying that that is the nature of the place. We set up a committee of inquiry, its report comes down, suddenly it is before us, we do not have an opportunity to speak to it because we do not have access to it. This is a complaint that we have made from time to time. We do not have access to a report for a sufficient period prior to the sitting of the Parliament to scrutinise it and be able to enter into some sort of debate on it when it is tabled. What usually happens is that we move that the Senate take note of the report, it goes on the Notice Paper, and on some future Thursday night we come back to the debate on the problem. By that time, of course, events may have passed us by. Really, we should be debating the matter at an opportune time. The opportune time is when the report is presented. Some very critical matters which need attention may be raised in the report. However, I am being diverted. My appeal, in support of what  Senator Keeffe  has said, concerns the need quickly to help the Pacific Islanders and to bring them under the umbrella of the assistance that is given to other people who are in a similar economic position. 

 - Mr President, may I be the first to congratulate  Senator Hamer  on an excellent speech. It was so well delivered and it was, if I may use his own term, a speech worthy of review. Perhaps we ought to take his advice and send his speech to the appropriate committee for review and consideration. Whilst I have been here for some time I have not reached the point of cynicism where we can push such a speech to one side and say: 'That is merely the advice that comes newly to us'. It was an excellent speech and it is in keeping with the other speeches which have been made by other senators on first coming to this place. It has certainly set a standard for those who have to follow him. I do not doubt they will reach an equal standard. Some of the propositions that he puts are to me exceptionally welcome. One is that for the moment we should dispense with the five Ministers that we have in this chamber. That would suit this side of the chamber well. Of course, we will change our minds when we get back to government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at the moment appears to be directing his attention to that very matter. When the Labor Party was in government at least there were seven Ministers. Now we have six and for one period it seemed as though we were to have only five. 
<para pgwide="yes">
 Senator Hamer's proposition could be supported for another reason; that the workload that is placed on Ministers in this chamber is far too oppressive. For five, maybe six, people to represent 27 responsibilities is a task which should not be placed on any one person. The proposition that  Senator Hamer  places before us is not a new one; honourable senators will remember that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack putting a similar proposition. However, at a later stage perhaps he would like to introduce those matters again and we will take them up by way of debate and also by way of interjection. The honourable senator's speech was so interesting that interjection was not brought to mind. Having said all those things, the honourable senator can now expect a less tolerant attitude in thefuture. 
The purpose of my entry in this debate of course is the usual one. We will proceed to hear further maiden speeches at 8 o'clock. It would be unfair for anyone making his maiden speech to speak now for a brief 15 minutes, to be interrupted for two hours and then to finalise his first speech in this place. Therefore I take the opportunity to make my speech on the Budget. 
I refer to a matter which has concerned me for some time and on which I have asked questions in this place. By way of my speech on the Budget I shall ask some further questions. The matter is the Iwasaki project in Queensland. We have debated the matter here and received assurances from Ministers in this place that before the Iwasaki project would be approved by governments environmental aspects would be considered. A report has appeared in the  Age  which now raises the question. 
I ask whether the attention of the Minister concerned has been drawn to a report in the Melbourne  Age  of 1 September that the Federal Government approval for the Iwasaki tourist project was given despite strong objection by the Department of Foreign Affairs and the express reservations of the Departments of Defence, Industry and Commerce, Transport, Primary Industry and Immigration and Ethnic Affairs? That is a substantial array of departments that have expressed strong objections. The question needs to be answered by the Government. In the face of such objections, did it proceed to give consent to the project? In view of this disturbing information- the  Age  story was backed up by direct quotes from Cabinet documents and confidential departmental minutes- will the Minister agree to table documents referred to in the newspaper article in question? I would like to be assured that the Minister is satisfied that the Federal Government has made the correct decision in this matter. 
Those who have raised this matter in debate in the Senate have been accused of taking a narrow view of a worthwhile economic project. Some of us have been accused of taking a racist position because Japanese capital and a particular Japanese gentleman are involved. But we showed concern because of certain procedures that the Queensland Government allowed which seemed to have expedited the project in the face of strong objections. I know that  Senator Collard  has put a case for the venture as being a wise economic project that will bring substantial capital into Queensland which will be followed by a substantial flow of tourists which would lead to an influx of much needed money. But he seemed to avoid or to evade the points that were raised that this project was of a particular nature. We made complaints that a foreign enclave- I think that term was used- specifically directed to obtaining foreign support in a special way may be established in this area. This project would lead to the escalation of values in this area, and rightly so. If money is poured into the area and certain facilities are provided there- let us for the moment forget the environmental problem- of course the value of surrounding land escalates. That brings into question the decisions made by the Queensland Government- perhaps I should not say the Queensland Government but the Queensland Premier- in giving preferential treatment to- providing easy access to substantial tracts of land to  Mr Iwasaki.  We see the accumulation, the promotion, the development, the escalation of value involved with a project that it excludes Australian participation except in a secondary and subservient way. It would be done in a way which would lead to alienation- I hesitate to use the word- of land in an area which will exclude Australians both physically and monetarily. 
I would like to be assured of that but I would have thought that that would have been firmly established in the terms of the agreement with Iwasaki. But there are reports which now appear in the Senate which seem to indicate that the Iwasaki project has certain aspects and characteristics that were not revealed in the first announcement. In the short time that I have available and because of the manner of which I came to enter the debate I cannot give the details. The questions which I raise I would like the Minister to answer. For convenience I will place these questions on the Notice Paper. But I support the questions in the way that I have. I have made requests regarding the confidential departmental minutes and quotes from Cabinet documents which seem to be the basis of the newspaper article. Since the newspaper article has used such confidential material it is reasonable to ask that that confidential material be placed before the Parliament. I have a feeling that the Government gave consent to the project without the necessary conditions of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development being met. I am not certain of my grounds here. But, if that has been the case, I am certain that the Minister will give an explanation, and I trust that that explanation will be satisfactory. 
I wonder what were the strong objections of the Department of Foreign Affairs to the project. Did it object because of external implications or because the project was concerned with the alienation of Australian territory? To what extent does this approach indicate what has happened in the past? Has any survey been made by any government department as to the amount of land which has come under external control? If I recall correctly, the policy was that Australian land could be held on lease but freehold was difficult to obtain. The policy appears to have changed; it certainly has changed in Queensland. If it has changed and freehold is available to people 'offshore' that is the word that is being used these days-to what extent has that facility been used? Is it correct that a large section of Cape York Peninsula is in the hands of foreign interests? Is that land freehold? My information is that a substantial mass of land is freehold and is in the hands of foreign interests. What has happened in Western Australia? What will happen under the pressure of a mounting need for external reserves, for instance in Japan, where Japanese capitalists- perhaps  Mr Iwasaki-  would like to hedge their financial position by investing in and developing Australian land? What will happen if the power of those reserves is such that the diminished Australian dollar cannot withstand the onslaught? Is it the case now that Australian land is held equally as much by foreign interests as it is by Australian manufacturing industry? If that is the case then of course the sooner that we make an investigation the better. 
I am rather disturbed to hear that the Australian Bureau of Statistics is no longer concerned with accumulating, analysing and reporting on the level of foreign investment. That office says that it has neither the staff nor the facilities to engage in research in this very important area. If foreign investment is not in any way to be supervised and information is not to be given to us, perhaps we may find that our interests are being undermined by stealth. Is this a chauvinistic point of view? Is this a racist attitude? Is this over-nationalism? In order to be truly international in our own right we firstly would have to be guilty of some nationalism, guilty of some protection of those things which we as a people have inherited. We should not in any way allow that heritage to be undermined or to be given away. How can we as a people accept our responsibility internationally if we do not accept the responsibility nationally in perhaps this narrow way? 
I seem to have drifted away from the Iwasaki project, but it seems to me that that project is symbolic of what is happening. We seem to be prepared to make substantial considerations for people like  Mr Iwasaki.  Yet we seem to restrict our generosity in a much more limited way when it comes to the people on Mornington Island and the people of Aurukun who are simply requesting some land tenure, some right to exercise their own influence over land with which they have been associated for so long. We seem not to show them the same sort of generosity. In fact, we take it that the Aborigines in those places should not receive rights over and above those given to any other Australian. I suggest that perhaps we ought to offer to the Aurukun and Mornington Island people the same rights and privileges as we have given to  Mr Iwasaki.  Of course, we have discriminated in favour of  Mr Iwasaki.  Discrimination has definitely favoured  Mr Iwasaki.  I suggest that this favouritism should have rested and stopped at the Queensland border. It should not have penetrated to the very heart of the Government in Canberra. It seem that it has done so. Perhaps the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  could consider the article in the  Age,  look at the serious questions raised in that article and come up with a review of the situation. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
I placed this matter on the Notice Paper with the intention of allowing any other person who wanted to speak on it to do so. I have nothing further to say. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I strongly support the point that  Senator Walsh  has raised. I was under the impression that in order to get an allocation of Australian crude a company had to take up an allocation of overseas crude. That has been the past experience. It seems that there has been some change, and 1 ask: What is the change? The question that  Senator Walsh  has asked is important to the industry because if this move freezes out the importation of refined products, some companies will be at a further disadvantage compared with the major oil companies in Australia that have entered the market in a substantial way and are discounting in a very aggressive mannerperhaps we could almost say, discounting in an unfair manner. It may lead even to the closing down of what we term Australian-owned companies under the pressure of discounting by the major overseas-owned companies, such as Shell Co. of Australia Ltd and British Petroleum Co. of Australia Limited. I would like to be assured of the ability of the small operator, and perhaps an independent operator, to continue operating.  Mr Sykes  is or was an independent and he has indicated that this new policy will allow the independents to come back into the field and to import products. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  seems to be indicating, and this has led to  Senator Walsh  pressing his question, that this will not be the case. Refined products purchased overseas are protected by dumping laws. I take it that we will not allow the dumping of refined spirit on the Australian market, although I do not know how it can be avoided because already there is dumping of the product on the Australian market in such a way that many people are being hurt. I support  Senator Walsh  's questioning and if the Minister, who is not directly responsible for this matter, is not certain of his ground perhaps he could get the information for us from the Minister who has direct responsibility. 
-! want to get just one point clear. Was it not the case that in order to obtain an allocation of Australian crude a company needed to have certain sales in the market place? Has that changed? 
So a company needs an allocation or substantial sales in order to get an Australian allocation. Having got that Australian allocation the company is required to import a certain amount of crude from overseas? Has the situation not changed? Let us suppose that I, as an independent, desired to import or buy crude. It is now not a disadvantage for me to buy overseas crude because the price is the same. Parity has been established. So I go overseas to purchase substantial amounts of crude.  Senator Durack  is now saying that, having done that, I am required to take up an allocation. I will get that allocation anyhow. 
But I am importing crude from overseas. There is no disadvantage to me now. I can get crude in quantity now if I can pay for it. So I get overseas crude. The Minister is now saying that because I buy overseas crude I must take an allocation of Australian crude. He is also saying that the allocation of Australian crude is still based upon sales within the market place. Is that correct? 
-We should not be engaging in this type of debate,  Mr Chairman,  but it is as to our entitlement. The reason I am asking these questions is that there was a faint hope that the dislocation in the market place caused by wholesale discounting by major companies was likely to end because of the new policy that we are discussing. Apparently, that is not the case. So the discounting that exists at present will continue to operate in the manner that it has been operating to the disadvantage of so many Australians. 
Will the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  make his advisers available to me so that they can straighten me out on this problem. I do not see any purpose in engaging in crossfire on this matter any longer. There is still confusion in my mind about what will happen. Perhaps the Minister can arrange to make his advisers available to me. 
I take the opportunity to say that almost immediately the practice which the Senate has developed of sending these reports to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment has shown some considerable reward. It means that reports which sometimes, when they come into this place, are passed without scrutiny when perhaps they contain some very important recommendations or point to some errors which have been made and which need to be debated in this place are in fact scrutinised. The report spoken of by  Senator Jessop  and the report with which I am concerned is the report of the Australian Institute of Marine Science in North Queensland. It is important to me that it has been revealed that a substantial reduction in staff which has been caused by the imposition of staff ceilings is affecting the work of the Institute. One would have thought that a staffing priority should have been given to this Institute, especially in its formative period. The tremendous amount of research which needs to be carried out by this Institute- for many years areas of research have been neglected- makes the work of this Institute one of high priority. 
Perhaps in this rather stumbling way I am getting to the point that I have raised before in this Parliament, namely, the need to do the research that will protect one of the finest eco-systems in the world. I refer to the Great Barrier Reef. The need to protect the Reef against a variety of threats has been raised many times in the Senate. The report which has come from the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment again highlights the need for the Government perhaps to review its policy on the Australian Institute of Marine Science to allow it to be staffed at the level that was recommended in the first place. If that were done, the Institute could immediately undertake research which is needed to protect the Great Barrier Reef against, for instance, the Crown of Thorns Starfish. We have not heard very much about that lately, but the threat is still there. The progression of that plague- that is the only word that one can use in connection with the Crown of Thorns starfishcontinues and is spreading to the south. 
We in this place have taken it for granted that, after the debates of many years and the establishment of the Institute and of the Great Barrier Reef Authority, something is being done about this threat, if not about many of the other threats. But, having established the Institute, one would have expected that it would have been staffed to the level necessary to carry out research and to investigate the root cause of the problem. But from what  Senator Jessop  has revealed tonight in the debate on this report, it seems that there is a serious limitation on the ability of the Institute to do the work for which it has been set up to do. Also, we have heard very little from the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, other than that a marine park has been established. One of the dangers is that, having forced certain decisions to be made over a period of years, the Senate might be lulled into a sense of false security about these matters and might be led to believe that there is nothing further to be done. Therefore,  Senator Jessop  's report tonight should be accepted in that light. There is still much to be done by the Institute of Marine Science and I hope that  Senator Jessop  and members of the Government will press in their party rooms the proposal that the Institute should be staffed at its rightful level. 
As always happens on the night when we consider General Business, matters come upon us fairly swiftly. In debates on matters which suddenly we discover to be of interest we contribute in some small way. I will not refer to the rest of the reports which are to be presented because my remarks would then become irrelevant to this debate. But might I say that the short debate we have had tonight gives value to discussions of General Business, even though some of the issues might be dealt with rather scantily. 
-by leave- Apparently we now follow a new procedure in that the mover of the motion closes the debate and then we all seek leave to continue the debate. In closing the debate  Senator Missen  did such an excellent job of it that I suddenly realised that what I had considered to be merely a formal matter before the Senate turned out to be an extremely important matter. I am a new member of the Joint Committee on Publications. I was appointed to it the other day. I now realise that what I had considered to be merely a formal activity has become a very vital one indeed if one is to take into consideration the debate tonight. May I say that there was an attempt under the Labor Government to correct the situation which has been revealed. Honourable senators will recall that a considerable amount of additional funds were provided and, as  Senator Missen  has indicated, there was a shortfall in expenditure of almost $500,000 in the updating of the consolidation. 
One must give credit to ex-Senator Murphy at the time he was Attorney-General for realising the importance of consolidating the various Acts. In fact, I have a very impressive array of books at home which began the process of this consolidation- a process which had been neglected in the past, which was considered for a while to be important and now apparently, according to what  Senator Missen  has said tonight, has again been neglected. Nevertheless, I think the debate tonight will prove that we ought to stimulate those persons who are responsible for this matter. It appears that the person who needs stimulation is  Senator Chaney.  He has admitted that he has responsibility for this matter. What better stimulation can one give to  Senator Chaney,  an ex- Whip, that he should now be on the receiving end of some advice, and that is that he should get about the job as quickly as possible and spend the $500,000 that is available- I trust that the money will be brought forwardtogether with the other $600,000, making a total of $ 1 ,100,000, to do the job that  Senator Missen  indicates is so important. As  Senator Chaney  referred to me as a member of the Publications Committee newly appointed, I refer to him as the Minister for Administrative Services newly appointed with a very heavy responsibility indeed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted: debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I commend the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  on the statement that he has just made. It is an important statement. I suggest to him that this is the better way in which to present statements on behalf of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and that he ought to get out of the habit into which he has fallen of having put to him lead questions about the CSIRO which subsequently result in very lengthy answers being given. I hope that the Minister will take note of what I am saying. Perhaps in the future the CSIRO will provide shorter answers to the prepared question which the Minister is asked at Question Time. 
Let me not divert from the very important statement that the Minister has put down. The Opposition joins with the Minister in congratulating the past  Chairman  of the CSIRO,  Mr Burgmann,  and in wishing him well. I also commend and comment on the importance of the appointment of  Dr J.  P. Wild as the new  Chairman.  The Minister is correct when he says that  Dr Wild  is a prominent Australian and a prominent scientist. I also commend him and the organisation which he now heads for the development of the InterScan aircraft landing system. I believe that we in this place have not given sufficient consideration to it, nor have we expressed in full our appreciation of that development. The Opposition expresses the hope that in this regard Australia will get a slice of the action in developing the market for this system. We hope that other CSIRO inventions which have been developed to benefit mankind in general are also developed in such a way that Australian industry gains some advantage from the work that the CSIRO has done. 
CSIRO is to be commended for diversifying its efforts in support of industry. Previously the CSIRO appeared to be directing its attention, effectively and usefully, towards rural industries. Apparently it is now entering into a wider field and that will be to the advantage of Australian industry; it certainly will be to the advantage of the CSIRO. We on this side of the House commend that diversification. We believe that it can be made effective only by proper funding. This brings me to the blanket method by which the Government applies ceilings to enterprises such as the CSIRO. My view is that if a ceiling of this sort is to be applied on the number of people employed or the expenditure of the Organisation- I do not believe the ceiling should be applied to the number of people employed- to meet some budgetary requirement which has been dreamed up, priorities must be established, and the highest priority and support should be given to this scientific organisation. 
This points to the need for CSIRO and other scientific bodies to be backed up by the willingness of Australian industry to take up developmental work. This in turn depends on adequate capital funding and a capacity to take risks. Only by such means can we get the specialised industry needed for new jobs in Australia. That leads me to the problem that we face in regard to restructuring manufacturing industry in Australia in order to move away from those heavily protected industries into other industries which, by reason of their specialisation- for instance in developing something like InterScan- with proper capital support, can take up, a new endeavour- creating new jobs. If the innovations of the CSIRO are properly supported with capital the Organisation can perhaps play an important part in restructuring manufacturing industry in Australia. 
All that I have said this afternoon is in support of the proposition. It might seem strange, coming from me. It certainly appears to be strangely received by the Minister judging by the look of disbelief on his face. We seldom have an opportunity to speak on this type of organisation which, as has been said, is a credit to the Australian community. I have commended the CSIRO involvement with industry. There is a tremendous amount of expertise in the CSIRO which should be made available to industry, not only to large industry but also to the smaller levels of industry, to small businesses. I do not doubt that the Organisation can devote its attention to developing manufacturing processes which can lead to the support of small businesses and industries. Also, it may be able to direct to some small organisations some method of producing some new appliance, perhaps mechanical, which would be useful in rural industry or in some other place and which would be suitable for export. I commend the statement, the CSIRO and its officers. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I merely want to ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  a question which may also involve you,  Mr President.  I was always of the opinion that when the Parliamentary Library asked for information it was the Parliament that was asking for it. For that reason I think it ought to be clarified that when the Parliamentary Library asks for information, in order to compile a brief for an honourable senator, the information is sought on behalf of the Parliament. 
Yes. I think that you,  Mr President,  may in some way be involved in the questions that  Senator Ryan  has raised. If the Parliamentary Library is to be inhibited or limited in any way in obtaining information, and an honourable senator is to be directed to ask a question, there just might also be an element of privilege involved. I therefore ask the Minister and the  President  to follow up this matter. 
I have a few words to say on this Bill. For the reasons that  Senator Grimes  has given and those that were advanced in another place, I view with some concern the move to place the funding arrangements for the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority on to the open market. People who are interested in those reasons can perhaps look at the House of Representatives  Hansard.  I accept what  Senator Grimes  said that the people of the ACT should have some say in these matters. Perhaps they have not been fully consulted in this regard. What concerns me is that by going on to the open market it may be necessary for the ACT Electricity Authority to compete for funds at a substantial rate of interest. 
Perhaps the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  can answer this question for me. After all, my view may be based on intuition. It may not be based on correct information. The Minister can, perhaps, supply me with the counter argument to my suggestion that if the ACT Electricity Authority goes on to the open market it will have to compete for funds at a rate of interest of 10 per cent, 1 1 per cent or 12 per cent in order to finance its expansion and development. Will this then lead to increased rates for electricity consumption within the Australian Capital Territory? If it does, that is all the more reason why we should consider consultation with the people of the ACT before we change the method of funding. Am I correct in my opinion that the ACT Electricity Authority is now being funded by the Government? If it is funded by the Government, can it not continue to be so funded? Why should the ACT Electricity Authority, receiving funds in this way, suddenly lose its source of funding and have to go to the expensive open market for funds for extension and development? 
Of course, we are debating the second reading of this Bill. I have just received a note from my leader. Perhaps I ought to read it to the Senate but perhaps I shall refrain from doing so. Perhaps I use the word 'perhaps' too often. I should ask these questions at the Committee stage of the Bill but I am merely saving the time of the  Chairman  of Committees by asking them during the second reading debate. Perhaps the Minister can respond. 
I was to speak next, but  Senator Townley  has put most of my thoughts out of my mind. I am so confused now about the traffic system in Hobart. 
Shall I go from the ridiculous to the sublime if I can? I wish to speak on the matter that was raised during Question Time concerning the taxing- that  is  the only word I can use, although it is not quite accurate- of children's earnings from personal exertion. This matter has been dealt with in the past, when the proposition was that any income over $315 a year earned by a child by selling newspapers, collecting a few bottles, doing odd jobs at the local store or working on Saturday morning would deprive his mother from receiving in full the family allowance. The matter has been debated here in such a way that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  was forced to retreat from that position and say fairly clearly in this place that income earned from personal exertion would not be considered when assessing the family allowance and that the family allowance would remain protected from such earnings. At the time it was considered by various speakers that any attempt by the Government to place a test on income earned by children through personal exertion was mean, pennypinching and immoral in the true sense of the term. Yet in the House this morning the Minister said: 'Yes we have decided that that was bad, but now we have lifted the amount a child may earn from $6 a week to $20 a week'. But the principle remains. Personal exertion on the part of children in order to support their families in difficult circumstances is in some way to limit the family allowance. So the meanness and the pettiness remain. The amount of $6 has been increased to $20. It is absurd, but I will not go into that. 
I merely want to deal with the position in which the Minister now finds herself. It surprises me that with a Minister under attack, although it is only on the first reading of the Bill, the Government has made no attempt whatsoever to encourage the Minister concerned or the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  to come into the chamber. There is no doubt about it; the Minister has now been placed in a situation where she could be on the defensive against a motion of censure in this place. It is as serious as that. The Minister for Social Security came into this place some weeks ago and, under questioning, gave a firm assurance that the Government would not persist with taxing earnings derived by a child from personal exertion. By reason of pressure from both sides of the chamber and pressure from the community at large and through the Press, she gave that clear assurance. Today she has moved away from that assurance. 
The undertaking given by the Minister was clear and she now finds herself having to defend her retreat from that position. She clearly and sincerely informed the House that the situation regarding the income derived from the personal exertion of the child would not be taken into consideration. She has now come into the chamber and said: 'We have relaxed it somewhat; it is not going to be $6 a week, it is going to be $20 a week'. Many children participate in some activity to support the family income and $20 a week is really only a small amount. It is what children could earn quite easily on a Saturday morning by delivering newspapers or magazines, or doing a variety of jobs or messages. It is not a great amount. Nevertheless, immediately they reach this so easily attained amount they will deprive their mother of some funds. 
The Minister is now under attack and it is surprising that the Government does not realise the serious position in which she has been placed through the disloyalty of her Cabinet colleagues. I charge the Leader of the Government in the Senate as being a party to that disloyalty. He should be here to answer the charge that he and the Cabinet have placed one of their colleagues in a position where she has to defend herself against the charge that she misled the Senate. That is what it amounts to. She misled the Senate. It was not done deliberately. She was forced into a position where she had to come into this place and deny her clear undertaking to us that the Government would not proceed with this legislation. She had to stand, undefended by those on her side of the Senate, for a full hour this morning endeavouring to answer questions about a situation which was not of her making. 
It is quite extraordinary that the Senate should feel the full effect of an arbitrary decision by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  and it is not the first time it has occurred.  Senator Withers  is a classical example of what can be the result. He made an announcement here on one occasion that he may have misled the Senate. It was for  Senator Withers  to answer to the Senate for doing so. However, he had no opportunity to do so. He was ruthlessly exterminated by the Prime Minister who had to find a scapegoat in what has now been called the 'Robinson affair'.  Senator Withers  is not with us at the moment; I do not blame him for that. He has taken four weeks leave. He is fortunate that the Opposition did not persist with a motion alleging that he misled the Senate. We believed that the treatment the Prime Minister handed out to  Senator Withers  was punishment enough. It was ruthless and completely unjust. It showed disloyalty on the part of the Prime Minister to one of his colleagues. 
Now we have a repetition of it. The Prime Minister has shown extreme disloyalty to one of his Ministers who gave a clear assurance to the Senate that the policy of the Government was not to persist with the proposal to take into account when calculating the family allowance the earnings of children derived from their personal exertion. The Minister now is placed in a serious position and I wonder how many on the 
Government side will be prepared to come to her defence. The Minister, through no fault of her own, is in a very defensive position. She is under challenge for having misled the Senate by giving a clear undertaking- as clear as that undertaking could be, as  Senator Cavanagh  proved when he referred to her answers to questions and to statements which she made in this place. She gave this undertaking clearly, sincerely and with the full intention of carrying it out. However, she was overruled by her Prime Minister and Cabinet and now stands accused in this place. 
The Government has not had the decency to allow her to come back into this place and defend herself, nor has anyone on her side of the chamber, perhaps with the exception of  Senator Martin  who made a fairly clear speech on the inequity of the proposed legislation.  Senator Martin  implied that the Minister may not have been responsible for the change in policy. Nevertheless, as far as the Senate is concerned, the Minister gave a clear undertaking. She has moved away from it and must answer for doing so. The Leader of the Government in the Senate, who represents the Prime Minister, must accept responsibility for the Minister finding herself under challenge because of the disloyalty to which he was a party. It is extraordinary that  Senator Guilfoyle,  who is perhaps the most effective Minister in this place and possibly one of the most effective Ministers in the Government, has been treated shabbily not only on this but also on another occasion. I refer to the reshuffle that took place at the time of the Withers affair. It is extraordinary that  Senator Guilfoyle,  whose position in the Cabinet is next to  Senator Carrick,  is not the  Deputy  Leader in this place. The  Deputy  Leader in the Senate is junior to  Senator Guilfoyle  in the Cabinet. What sort of discrimination is this and why is it necessary for the Opposition to take it up? Why has it not been taken up by someone on the Government side? 
-The interjection is that they have no guts. Perhaps that is a wide statement. Perhaps one or two on the Government side will be prepared to expose the situation for what it is. One of their Ministers is being treated in a manner which is exceptional even taking into account the history of the Government in this place over the past three years. What has been done to  Senator Guilfoyle  is exceptional in the circumstances.  Senator Webster  need not smile. Although he is not a member of the Cabinet, he is one of  Senator Guilfoyle  's colleagues. It surprises me that he is in the chamber alone when for the last two hours the Minister for 
Social Security has been under attack. Let me assure the Senate that the Minister for Social Security will continue to be under attack in this place for the next few days. There will be continual questioning on this matter although we on this side know that while we are attacking the Minister for Social Security, somebody else is really responsible. I wonder whether any honourable senator opposite is prepared to get up and say that somebody else is responsible. I wonder whether he as a Minister responsible for a portfolio would like to be treated in the same way that  Senator Guilfoyle  has been treated. How would  Senator Webster  feel if he made a policy statement in this place which set out a certain proposal and the following week he was told to come into this place and say that what he said initially was not the real situation? Where would that put him?  Senator Webster  should visualise the situation. The whole of his credibility would be at stake. He should put himself in  Senator Guilfoyle  's place, because all of her credibility is at stake. She has tried to defend herself by rationalising the change in the situtation. In actual fact, what she should be doing is passing the buck back to the person who deserves to take the dump. She should say: 'There has been a change in government policy. What I stated on 22 August was the correct position, as far as I was concerned and as far as my Department was concerned '. That is the sort of answer which  Senator Guilfoyle  is justified in giving. I suppose she is more loyal than other honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber. She is bound by Cabinet loyalty but it seems that Cabinet has no loyalty to her. 
What will be the result of the proposition with which she now persists? The proposition means that the youngsters who earn a few dollars at the weekend or after school will have to declare those earnings. If they do not declare them they will find themselves in the position of being the youngest tax evaders in the community. What will the Government do to children under this legislation? It will make them tax evaders, cheats, liars and deceivers. Surely they will look at the money they have earned and the manner in which they have earned it and say: 'Why should someone take any of this away from me when the family to which I belong has a need for it?' It is personal exertion about which we are talking. We are not talking about interest from trusts or interest from shares which may have been lodged in a child's name for some tax evasion purpose. We are talking about money which the children physically earn themselves. It must be abhorrent to everyone in this place that the Government should attempt in some way to limit those earnings and to take some of them away from the children. 
If I were a cartoonist I would depict the 'Great Mai ' with a mask over his face and a gun pointed at some kid and with a caption reading 'Hand it over! ' That is the real situation. It is exactly the situation and  Senator Webster  knows it. As far as the children who are earning a few dollars are concerned, this proposal means that some of their earnings will be taken away. It will not be taken away from them; it will be taken away from their mothers.  Senator Martin  outlined the position quite clearly. It is an attack on the family allowance of a mother through her child. I expect that in the next week Government members will have a chance to express their opinions. I do not doubt that they will express their opinions in the party room. I would be very much surprised if the matter were not raised in their party room for the purpose of showing how one of their Ministers has been humiliated and embarrassed. It is clear to us that she has tried as effectively as she can to avoid the thrust of the questions and that she has been loyal to those who have been disloyal to her. I cannot find sufficient words quickly enough to describe what I consider to be one of the most despicable actions that has been evident in this place. 
When I started my speech I felt tempted to call for a quorum as I felt that there ought to be more people listening to what I had to say. However, had I done that I would have been accused of having the sort of vanity which sought a captive audience. What honourable senators on the Government side of the House deserve is for a quorum to be called continually. If they intend to behave in this manner they need to have lesson after lesson read to them. They will be subjected to this in the next week or so.  (Quorum formed). 
Perhaps the calling of a quorum would have been of more advantage to me at the beginning of my speech rather than at the end. Since  Senator Guilfoyle  is present in the chamber, I point out that for the past hour and a half critical comments have been made of the Government's action which caused her to come into this place and announce the change of policy. The point that I was making was that the Cabinet was duty bound to extend to  Senator Guilfoyle  the same loyalty as she extended to it. Nevertheless, a quorum has now been formed. I was at the tail end of my remarks when the quorum was called. While the bells were being rung  Senator Webster  made all sorts of remarks about Opposition senators not being in the chamber. Let me make it quite clear to Government senators that they are responsible for maintaining a quorum in the House. 
Let us put the matter to a test. The next time a quorum is called Government senators should stay out of the chamber and see what happens. If they think they have no responsibility for keeping a quorum in the House, I suggest that they do not come into the chamber the next time we call for a quorum. We will then see how they get out of the situation which results. I put it to honourable senators on the Government side of the House that one of their Ministers has been placed under attack here for the last hour because of the Government's action and they have not cared very much; they have not bothered. 
-Perhaps not. I know just how  Senator Sim  thinks. 

 - Senator Sim has pointed his finger at me on several occasions. He was the first person to point a finger at me in this place. That was eight years ago. Honourable senators opposite are prepared to accept the situation that has been thrust upon us in this place. A Minister has given a clear assurance to the Senate that the policy of the Government is that if it is clear that the income of children is earned by personal exertion it will not be taxed and it will not in any way affect the family allowance. That assurance was given categorically and clearly. Some weeks later, because of a decision which Cabinet made, that Minister had to come into the Senate and defend a contrary proposal. Yet honourable senators opposite consider it to be a matter of no importance. Where is the sense of loyalty of honourable senators opposite? Is the sense of loyalty of the members of the Government the same as that of members of the Cabinet, or are they prepared, within their party room, to take up the matter and clearly say that that cannot happen? We cannot have the situation of a Minister coming into this place declaring clearly what he or she intends to do and then announcing a clear reversal of that declaration because, in my view, that is getting very close to misleading the House. It surprises me that the Government should take this matter so lightly. It surprises me that  Senator Webster  says that it is not a matter of importance, that there ought not to be anyone listening to this criticism. Let the 
Government see what it can do to brush this criticism aside during the next two or three days. Let us see what happens when the legislation is introduced and the Government has to take a vote on this change in policy which proposes that the income that a child may earn without affecting the family allowance is to be increased from $6 to $20 a week. Too often this Senate has been treated with contempt by the Executive Government. The  Senator Withers  affair is a classic example of that.  Senator Guilfoyle,  although she is senior to the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in this place, was not given that appointment which she deserved. Also, I think the way that  Senator Guilfoyle  has been thrust into this affair is a disgrace to the Government. Unfortunately the Opposition now will have to persist with the charge that she- whether it is deliberate or not- has misled the Senate. She made clear, categorical statements in answers to questions that the position was such and yet she has stated in the Senate that the position was not so. 
If that is not misleading the Senate I do not know what is. If the justification is that the Cabinet changed its mind the accusation I have made that the Cabinet was disloyal to its Minister is accurate. The Cabinet must have known that she made a clear declaration to the Senate. There is no doubt that Cabinet was party to that decision. If the Executive Government is to behave in that way to one of the Ministers in this place it is a matter for censure. How can we censure the Cabinet in this place? We cannot. So we are forced to censure the Minister who is responsible for making the statement. From where I stand that is unfair. Nevertheless, we on this side will have to persist in the unfairness. I trust that someone on the Government side will come to the defence of the Minister and remind the Cabinet that it has a responsibility to the Minister just as the Minister has a responsibility to the Senate. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement by the  President  on 21 September 1978 relating to Parliament House security. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
1 ) What improvements are planned to the Coolangatta Airport, and what is the expected cost of the improvements. 
Has the Minister received representations from the Marketing Director of the Gold Coast Visitors' Bureau,  Mr Brian  Calvert, suggesting that an international airport be sited between the Gold Coast and Brisbane; if so, (a) what would be the estimated cost of establishing an international airport in that position; (b) has the Department undertaken an investigation of the viability of such an airport; (c) what are the details of  Mr Calven's  representations; and (d) are the representations concerned currently under active consideration by the Department of Transport. 
One of the Bills to be debated is a money Bill. I take it that we can debate the motion for the first reading of that Bill without separating the Bills. Is that in order? 
It seems that the Government is obsessed with bringing into this place Bills that impose taxation. I cannot resist the temptation to move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr President, in view of the fact that there is now a notice of motion on the Notice Paper referring to your statement on House security, will you ask the police to desist from searching people as they enter the gallery until such time as the matter has been debated by the Senate? 
May I take this opportunity to say a few words on a couple of matters. Firstly, I congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who is in charge of the House, for her recent victory against those who sought to treat her rather shabbily. The announcement today that the Government has retreated from certain decisions it had made, in opposition to a statement she had made in the Senate, is a victory for her and for the Senate as a whole. I congratulate the Minister. I also direct your attention,  Mr President,  to the state of the galleries over the past hour or so and say to you that if you treat the constituents of this country as thieves and search them when they come into the galleries then they will stay away. Perhaps there is a lesson to be learned. I must admit that there are a couple of ways to ensure that the galleries are empty. One is to treat those present to rather boring speeches and the other is to prevent people from coming into the place. Nevertheless, this matter is on the Notice Paper and I should not refer to it at length. However, I repeat that if we treat constituents as thieves they will stay away. They do not deserve that treatment and I suggest to you,  Mr President,  that you take that advice for what it is worth. 
The matter that inspired me to rise tonight,  Mr President,  is that today you wore a new wig into this place. I can say to you that I was rather attached to the old wig, which had a sparrowlike look about it. It looked worn, but nevertheless in some way it was cherished and suited you rather well. I think the new one you wore today needs to be treated pretty savagely. I think it ought to be put through a wringer or a washing machine. It ought to be kicked about; it ought to get that worn look about it. It does not suit you well. 
No. I was quite surprised to see that today we were presented with something that would have suited Judge Jeffreys very well but which does not suit you,  Mr President,  one scrap. It is far too new. I know you were uncomfortable with it because you fingered it so often. My advice to you privately and now publicly is that you should treat it with disdain, kick it about a little bit, wear it a little bit like a new lawyer who goes into a new court with a new wig, trying to establish a reputation of some experience. What does he do? He treats his wig in a way - 
-No, not as he treats his wife. I am serious about this. I did not think that tonight I would be contributing a short speech on the President's wig. Nevertheless, I think it is necessary that something should be said about it. How does one treat a President's wig? One ought to consider it to be the trappings of the past. Do away with it, burn it, dispense with it.  Mr President,  you should do with it what your predecessor did- put it in the wastepaper basket from time to time. Do anything with it, but if you have to wear it, at least wear it in a different way. 
All I am suggesting,  Mr President,  is that it would be far easier for you and much better if you did not wear it at all. You look so well in the ruffles that you wear that you have a certain dignity in this place that does not need the wig. For some reason today this new wig sort of offended me. Someone is waving at me in a way that says to me: 'Finish what you have said because you have said enough.' It is advice that I have been given by  Senator Chaney  in the past. I have always followed the signals that  Senator Chaney  has given me in the past when he was Government Whip. Now that he has taken upon himself the new responsibility of being Minister for Administrative Services, of course I am less likely to heed his advice. Like all politicians who get to their feet on very important occasions like this during the adjournment debate, it is very difficult for me to find a quick ending to what I have to say. 
I have covered several things tonight. Firstly, I have said congratulations to you,  Mr President.  I have also drawn attention to the state of the House. It is tempting for me at this late stage to call a quorum, but I will not. I have also said to you,  Mr President,  that perhaps it would be better if you came into this place with a wig that was slightly soiled rather than that magnificent adornment you had today which was so clean and so pure that it gave to you an air of inexperience. Perhaps I might suggest to you that it would be better to wear the old one no matter how worn it may be rather than this borrowed one. Perhaps you ought to wait until you get your own wig. 
-I now have been drawn into the debate by  Senator Lewis.  What an extraordinary contribution that was from him. He was trying to say that a member of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs can have no view of his own. In other words, immediately he is appointed to that Committee he ceases to be a member of this Parliament. 
-That is what you implied and that is what I inferred from what you said. It seems to me that  Senator Lewis  is quite unaware of the fact that the committee system supports the Senate; it is not the other way around. There is no doubt that  Senator Evans  has a view and he expressed it firmly on the basis of his own experience. He has a right to express it here in this place at this time. He should not be limited by the fact that he is on the Committee to which the matter has been referred. There is no doubt that, being a reasonable person, he might hear evidence put before that Committee which will cause him to change his mind. At the present time his opinion is as he has stated it, and he has a right to state it without being attacked in the way that he has been.  Senator Lewis's  call upon him to resign I think was churlish. I use that word now because in one of the newspapers today I was said to be churlish because I made a comment about the President's wig late one night this week. I do not recall exactly what I said. Nevertheless, churlish is a word that will be part of my vocabulary for a few days. I think  Senator Lewis  has been churlish in his remarks to  Senator Evans.  I do not think  Senator Evans  deserved that in view of his excellent contribution, which rather showed up  Senator Lewis's  contribution for what it was worth, that is, a somewhat diminished and, if I could finish with this word, churlish one. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) Did the Department of Transport decide in March 1978 to allow commercial jet aircraft to take off in fog when the visibility is as low as 350 metres. 
Was the proposal to reduce the visibility minimum from 700 metres to 350 metres initiated by his own Department, or was it in response to representations by some other party or parties. 
If by some other party or parties, who were those parties, and what arguments were used in support of the applications. 
Were the applications made in writing. 
What benefits will accrue to the aviation industry as a result of the lower take-off minimum. 
At which airports does the 350 metre take-off visibility requirement apply. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: What point was  Senator Baume  endeavouring to make by asking such a question and what point was the Minister endeavouring to make by endeavouring to have that letter incorporated in  Hansard?  Why did she decide to use a letter of such a personal nature in such a way? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
In view of the substantial reorganisations taking place in the Canteens Organisation and the number of people that have been affected by such change, I think it is necessary that the Senate debate this matter at the earliest opportunity. With those comments, I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
Did a report in the  Age,  1 September 1978, state that Federal Government approval for the Iwasaki tourist project was given despite the strong objections of the Department of Foreign Affairs, and the expressed reservations of the Departments of Defence, Industry and Commerce, Transport, Primary Industry and Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
Will the Minister table the Cabinet documents and departmental minutes referred to in the newspaper article. 
Will the Federal Government's decision on this matter be reviewed in the light of this report. 
-I present the following petition from 69 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken part in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1975 and again in December 1977 and that on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into effect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition and that, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government Members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their stated objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extend to acting otherwise or to enacting legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely: ° Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments. ° Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension. ° Unemployed divided into those with dependants and those without. ° Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension age- invalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for sufferers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people, therefore, 
Your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education and refer to the payment of student fees. I know that I am not allowed to use the word 'hypocrite' as it is unparliamentary; so I will not use it. I ask the Minister: Is it not a fact that the thrust of the proposed legislation which he intends to introduce and the legislation which he is discussing with the States is that the university itself- not the organisations- shall collect the fees, which shall be compulsory? What then is the difference? Is it not a fact that compulsion will be maintained and that the university itself shall collect the fees? 
The Opposition came quickly to the support of the matter of public importance presented by  Senator Chipp.  As is the case with many honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber, honourable senators on this side of the chamber unanimously took the view at a Party meeting this morning that they should resist the position that has been revealed in the Senate this afternoon in clear terms by speakers who have preceded me in the debate. It is the view of members of the Opposition that the most despicable of human attitudes is racial prejudice. I do not think that we expected to have this matter brought before us in such a way that we as a nation, operating a flag airline, should have that airline bring us into disrepute and humiliate us in this way. I was surprised that the Leader of the 
Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  endeavoured to justify the position taken by Qantas in some way, the continuation of this state of affairs by taking the same view as the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  apparently took when he gave his statement to the  Age.  I take it that the report is accurate. It reads: 
The transport Minister,  Mr Nixon,  said last night any restriction on Jewish passengers was part of an arrangement under which Qantas operated its Damascus service. It was part of Qantas' normal commercial operations and the Federal Government had taken no part in the decision. 
The Minister enlarged upon that statement. He approached this very serious matter in the same commercial way as Qantas and it is to his disadvantage that he did so. It seems to me that the simple course would have been for Qantas to say, and say firmly, that it could not operate a flight from Australia across to Europe in a way that would debar or prohibit any person travelling on that flight because of racial or religious background. That surely is the simple ethical position that Qantas should have taken immediately. In international arrangements we should take the position clearly that we cannot accept such a proposition, arrangement, or agreement. Yet is seems that for quite some time this is not what has been occurring. Suddenly the issue is before us and, having been brought before us, it is necessary for the Government to take swift action to bring the practice to an end. I hope that this debate will bring some weight to bear upon the Government to convince Qantas immediately that, no matter what the commercial loss may be, it would be far better not to fly six times weekly over Syria and to land one of those flights in Damascus but to go by another route. 
I sought some information how this could be done but, unfortunately, the only map available to me is a very small map that I obtained from our transport office. It seems to me that  Senator Baume  has a much better map. However, even this small map seems to indicate that there are alternatives available. Those alternatives should be taken advantage of immediately. I rang the Department of Transport and sought from it some information on what alternative routes were available to Qantas and what would be the commercial loss if they were taken. Unfortunately, I was not able to obtain much cooperation or information because, for some reason, all the responsible officers were not there. I think there was an interdepartmental committee meeting which was engaging their attention. What fascinated me was the suggestion that I should refer my questions to the Minister for Transport. I made the point that it was rather odd that the Opposition should have to ask the 
Minister for information which it could use against him. It is a typical response from departments these days, as we on Estimates committees have discovered. It seems to me that they are insensitive to their responsibilities just as Qantas is quite insensitive to its responsibility to carry out the will of the Australian people as reflected in the speeches that have been made in the Senate. 
We are rapidly getting the reputation of being a servile people. We seemed to bow quite easily to the demands of Indonesia over Timor and one suspects that the reason we made no firm protest over Indonesian actions in East Timor or, for that matter, over the death of the six journalists referred to by  Senator Mason  today was that Indonesia could make it tremendously difficult for us by refusing us the right to travel over Indonesia. So we bowed to the requests of Indonesia in the face of the possibility of that commercial disadvantage. We bow to the requests of other nations when they apply pressure to us, and evidently we have succumbed to a request by Syria. In fairness to Syria, it may be that it said that it was not in a position to protect people of Jewish origin who were on a plane going over that territory- I cannot quite see how that is so- and if it happened to land those people may be at risk and the rest of the passengers also may be at risk. It has never been put to us in those terms that that was the real reason for Qantas 's decision. I do not think it is. I think the real reason is the economic sanction that would have been placed upon us if we had not made a decision based on racial grounds. That is quite unacceptable. 
This is one of those rare occasions when I find myself opposed to a Palestinian or Arabian position. It is said that I am the only Arab, or Arab by near kin, in the Labor Caucus. I accept that, but-- 
Those of us who come from the Caucasian area are all Semites under the skin. We need to be reminded of that from time to time. We seem to change our religious attitudes and views but even they should not put us apart. It seems that the horror of the Middle Eastern situation could be underlined by those remarks. Nevertheless, that is the situation which exists. Some of us have great sympathy for the plight of the Palestinian people and some of us, sometimes the same ones of us, have considerable sympathy for the Israeli plight, just as we are concerned about the situation in Northern Ireland and other places. The proposition which is being put to the Senate is a simple, humane, sensible and highly ethical one- that we ought not to succumb to this sort of pressure which, if we did succumb to it, would place us in an extremely indefensible position against a claim that we are racist- nothing more or less- and that we have succumbed to carrying out what is essentially a racist action. 
We need to be consistent. We take a very strong stand against apartheid in South Africa and have very firm attitudes opposing what happens in South Africa on racial grounds. We adopt the same attitude in respect of Rhodesia and we should be consistent and take the same stand to resist anything that has a racial overtone or undertone. It does not seem as though there is any opposition in this place to the proposition put by  Senator Chipp,  that is, that 'the appalling action of Qantas Airways Ltd of banning Jews from flights which land in Syria' should be condemned out of hand. This is one of the occasions when I deplore our Standing Orders because they prevent us from coming to a vote on these matters. We really should be coming to a vote on this very important issue. We should force honourable senators to take a position on it. I find it difficult to find the right words to condemn the attitude of Qantas and the position taken by the Minister for Transport purely on commercial grounds. I merely rest upon the fact that other members of the Senate have been far more eloquent and far more emotive, and justly so, in support of the proposition put forward by  Senator Chipp. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Bill which we are discussing is the Science and Industry Research Amendment Bill 1978. The purpose of the Bill is to redefine and broaden the functions of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation as laid down by the Science and Industry Research Act 1949 and to provide new organisational structure for its direction and control. In looking at the short digest of the Bill which has been provided by the Parliamentary Library, I note that the propositions put before us in the Bill have general acceptance, almost unanimous acceptance, in this place. Perhaps I ought to drop the word 'almost' and say that the Bill has unanimous acceptance in this chamber. If I recall correctly we debated the matter at length on a previous occasion with the same unanimity. I doubt that it is necessary for me to add to what I said previously on the occasion of the debate of the report. 
The contribution from honourable senators on both sides has been enlightening. I do not have much more to say but for the benefit of the  speaker  who follows me I say merely that all the great anticipations of the legislation that is before us will come to nothing unless the finance is provided to support this grand concept. Unless the funds and staff are made available, all we have is merely a framework, a part structure. Nothing substantial will flow from what we have accepted as being a fine concept. This legislation is introduced at a time when the Government is concerned with budgetary restrictions. I suggest that these budgetary restrictions should have no priority as far as this legislation is concerned. We are rapidly reaching a position in Australia which is similar to that position reached in many other countries which have an advanced education system where a flow of graduates comes out from tertiary institutions with no place to go. 
There is a possibility, if the funds are provided, for the great wealth of qualified talent which is emerging to be used to the benefit of the research institutes which are being set up by this legislation. Unless the funds are made available of course we will have a situation where we create the need but are not able to satisfy it. I wonder whether honourable senators- I do not doubt that they have- have given thought to those graduates who have left universities with little chance of employment. More so, I wonder whether they have given thought to the many students who enter the various streams of the universities knowing that when they complete their studies they will have nowhere to go. Since I have nothing to add to the excellent contributions that have been made on the general philosophy of the need to have diversification in science and bodies that are provided for in this Bill, I merely voice my concern that, having developed the idea by inquiry and having produced this legislation, all of it will be worthless unless the funds are provided. The hopes that we now raise by this legislation in the minds of young students, young graduates and those people who are doing advance studies may come to a useless end. 
That might sound a gloomy note to inject into the debate, but let me repeat what I have said about other legislation, and other needs of society- that a priority should be established so that, although there may be need for budgetary restrictions, it should not apply as a blanket restriction upon all government activities. A selection should be made so that money will be provided without restraint in those areas that the Parliament decides are of prime importance to the future of the country. 
I merely reiterate that the Opposition supports this legislation. We have spoken previously to the CSIRO, which, in Australian terms, is almost akin to a motherhood concept with us. We look upon it as not so much as a sacred cow- that is not the right term- but with respect and often admiration, realising the great contribution that it has made to the primary industries of this country. As a result of this legislation, and the proposed diversification of its role, the CSIRO may be able to give to secondary industry what it has previously given to primary industry; but we have spoken of that before. I repeat that the Opposition supports the Bill and the concepts that it contains. 
1 wish to speak to the motion. The Opposition has at its command certain devices by which it can, if it so desires, continue a debate. I make my remarks to indicate that it is desirable to allow honourable senators to express an opinion on important matters at the time a statement is made unless some arrangement is made for the resumption of the debate to take place at a later hour of the day. I make it clear that the important rights which back bench senators have at times when statements are brought down should not be limited by any prior arrangement. 
If, because of the time taken up in such debate, some important legislation may be delayed, other means exist by which we can expedite the legislation and make up for the delay. It is not the prerogative of a Minister or an Opposition spokesman to believe that they can be the only speakers in such a matter. I have spoken to this motion for two reasons. The Opposition can, if it so desires, debate the matter in spite of the action taken either by the Minister or someone else on the Government side. The Opposition has one or two devices by which it can prolong the debate if it believes it to be necessary. 
-On behalf of  Senator Robertson  I present the following petition from 1 1 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance ( No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
Has the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs advertised at least one position of commissioner with the Industries Assistance Commission, at an annual salary of $34,699, without consultation with, or reference to; the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission,  Mr McKinnon;  if so, (a) how many positions are involved; (b) why was the Industries Assistance Commission not consulted before the positions were advertised in national newspapers; and (c) what plans does the Government have for the Industries Assistance Commission. 
Because of the time factor the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has not read the important statement which has been brought down but has had it incorporated in  Hansard  It is now the custom to incorporate ministerial statements and second reading speeches to facilitate the passage of legislation in the Senate. The statement informs us that the Government has decided to legislate for the creation of an Aboriginal Development Agency which will embrace the present functions of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission and the Aboriginal Loans Commission and take over from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs the administration of its Enterprise program. Reading the first paragraph of the statement raises in me some interest that the proposals may be a way to save expenditure by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs which we considered to be open-ended and which did not serve the Aboriginal people. Another paragraph of the statement refers to Torres Strait Islanders. One would expect that certain schemes which have absorbed large sums of money without evident result would be brought under some control. 
The point that the Opposition makes is that in setting up this agency the rights of the Aboriginal people to participate and to decide their own affairs should be fully recognised. The Aboriginal people themselves should participate in the operation, the administration and the policy making decisions of the agency upon its establishment. It is important at this stage to accept that principle. It is important also to accept the proposition that such an agency will cut down substantially the area of responsibility of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I take it that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs budget will be reduced by the amount that is necessary to fund and develop this agency. I take it that we are not now to have an addition to the present structure of the Department in the form of another commission or agency to assist the Aboriginal people. The overexpensive way of administering funds for Aboriginal people through the Department might be exacerbated by another bureaucracy. We await the legislation and hope that the matters of which I have spoken will be taken into consideration. I hope also that the better elements of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission and the Aboriginal Loans Commission are reinforced rather than diminished. That will be the concern of honourable senators on this side of the chamber and I do not doubt that it will be the concern of those on the other side. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Putting the Acting  Chairman  to one side, I put it to the Minister that neither of the present members-  Dr Baker  and  Mr Schubert-  has the correct qualifications. I am glad that the Minister read out  Dr Baker's  qualifications. He is an expert in his field, but he is not a biologist, he is not an ecologist and he is not an environmentalist. Neither is  Mr Schubert.  What the Minister is suggesting is that there is a possibility that the third person to be appointed will not be any of these either. That is what I am talking about. The Government is appointing a person who has all the qualifications in his particular field, but he has no expertise, no discipline, in the three areas that are most necessary and which ought to be represented in full on the Authority. What the Government is doing by this Bill is altering the qualifications to add another person who, though he may be excellent in his own field, may be similar to the other two but neither an environmentalist nor a biologist nor an ecologist. It seems to me that the Government is downgrading the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and it is allowing, shall we say, access to those who would seek to consider the 
Great Barrier Reef as other than a very important and delicate ecosystem that needs to have the supervision of a biologist or an ecologist or an environmentalist, or all three. 
Let me say that the early stages of  Dr Baker's  training are those which would lead one to become an ecologist or an environmentalist or, for that matter, a biologist. But when he came to his speciality and to his discipline, of course he confined himself to the pharmacological area and to the chemical area. I am getting out of my depth to a certain extent, but I know what I am talking about even if I cannot use the correct term. I know just exactly what is likely to happen unless the status of the Authority is maintained at the highest scientific level that is concerned with the protection of the Reef, the ecology of the Reef, the environment of the Reef and the biological life of the Reef. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Minister for Administrative Services read the text of the statement by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
I have taken this action specifically to point out that under the Standing Orders a statement can be read. There should be no confusion in the future about our attitude in this respect. 
-by leave- I do not doubt that the Government is eager to adjourn for Christmas so as to escape some of the problems that are facing it at the moment, but I will not develop that theme because it might start a debate that could take us into conflict with the proposition put forward by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  that we should, as far as possible, see an even processing of legislation. I should like to make the point that it is up to the Goverment to ensure that in the last two or three weeks of this session we are not faced with the same problem that we have faced year after year of departments bringing forward urgent legislation and Ministers seeking to get that legislation passed with as little debate as possible. It is a well-known technique that many governments have used. I take it that the Leader of the Government in the Senate will make certain that the legislation comes forward steadily and not in a congested form in the last week of sitting. 
I assure the Leader of the Government in the Senate that General Business is very important to the Opposition. We would resist any attempt by the Government to take away from the Opposition that section of the Notice Paper. As we progress towards the end of this year it may be necessary for us to take up matters in General Business that are just as important to us as government legislation happens to be to the Government itself. Nevertheless, once the Government makes a firm announcement as to just when it wants the Senate to rise and bearing in mind the propositions I have put before the Senate, we on this side of the Senate will cooperate to see that no honourable senator is inconvenienced. 
While I am aware that one ought not to refer to the debate just concluded, this is the first opportunity I have had to comment on  Senator Button's  reference to my inability to understand the Bill we have just finished debating. I might say that I could have made an excellent speech on metric conversion and the need to reconsider it if I had been given the opportunity. As to the matter of weights and measures, it is something that has concerned me lately because a cartoon was recently published that showed me in a rather unfortunate light. If I needed some incentive to reduce weight and consider my weights and measures, then of course I got the incentive through that cartoon. 
The Bill before us, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Amendment Bill, as  Senator Webster  would be aware, deals with a matter with which I have been concerned for quite a number of years. In fact, I believe I have not paid sufficient attention to the matter over the past two or three years and for this reason this Bill comes at an appropriate time for me to make some comments. There seems to be a tendency to drift away from the proposition that we all accepted during those great investigations that took place here in the Senate and by a variety of associated committees. Those investigations led us to the conclusion that the Great Barrier Reef was a single ecosystem, a heritage that was not only an Australian heritage but a world heritage. I would have thought that by now it would have been declared as part of our national heritage; in fact, we may have gone further and considered it for acceptance as a world heritage area. What seems to be emerging, and it is unfortunate, since the establishment of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority three years ago, is a concept that this great ecosystem can in some way be divided up or fragmented for a variety of purposes. 
I know of  Senator Webster's  concern in this matter because I remember going to Melbourne on one occasion seeking support for an expedition to the Great Barrier Reef to carry out a survey on the crown of thorns problem. We were receiving support from divers in Victoria. I think one of the divers was related to the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  who is in charge of the House tonight. We were invited out to his place for entertainment, but unfortunately the lights failed. It was a precursor of the slogan that the Liberals used in the last election campaign, something that referred to the lights. On that night there just were not any lights at  Senator Webster's  place and we ate in the dark. Nevertheless I enjoyed myself. Getting back to the point, at that time  Senator Webster  was well concerned with the future of the Great Barrier Reef. There are many people on both sides of the House concerned about the future of the Great Barrier Reef and the need to retain it in its wilderness form as one great ecosystem that needs to be protected from a variety of threats including man-made threats. 
Then there was the great battle, and I use that word advisedly, against drilling on the Great Barrier Reef which placed the Premier of Queensland at a disadvantage. It almost brought him to his defeat. He had a proxy from somewhere which he took out of his pocket and used, unlike  Mr Gorton  who on a similar occasion refused to use a proxy to survive. The great Bjelke-Petersen used his proxy to survive but was brought to that point by a campaign against oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. That campaign was mounted by people throughout Australia and led to the establishment, together with the various investigations carried out by the Senate, of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. The point I am making is that there is still no declaration of areas of the reef as a national park. I ask the Minister why this is the case. Further, might I just pronounce a fear that again a lot of speculation is emerging about oil exploration on the reef. On 11 May 1977 the  Nation Review  reported that a draft Cabinet submission had recommended oil exploration at the southern end of the Great Barrier Reef and the Government has not said no to that. In spite of questions asked there still has not been a straight no. 
I pose to the Minister a question that he may pose to the Minister who is directly responsible: Just why has it come about that we again begin to speculate on oil drilling in the area of the Great Barrier Reef when, after so much controversy, so much research, so much investigation, it was decided that oil drilling just was not to be considered? It seems to me to be so unnecessary that the Government should now be engaged in investigation as to whether oil spillages will affect coral when the overwhelming consensus of people not only in Queensland but throughout Australia is that there ought to be no oil drilling in the area of the Great Barrier Reef. So all this speculation, all this research, all this inquiry into the effects of oil on coral, to me seems to be so unnecessary when one concludes that the strong popular feeling is against any drilling for oil on the Great Barrier Reef. 
I do not want in any way to understate the great concern about any mineral or oil exploration in the area of the Great Barrier Reef. I also do not want suddenly to have to accept or to consider, together with many of the people who were engaged in the campaign against oil drilling in the area of the Reef, the possibility of the campaign needing to start all over again. We have been through all that and our memories are long. If the Government is speculating about oil drilling, let it say so clearly so that we can again commence the campaign to convince both the Government of Queensland and the Federal government that that really is not on. The unions will not accept oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. The population of Queensland as a whole will not accept oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. Any effort in that direction will prove to be wasted. I suggest also that the mining and oil exploration companies ought not to be permitted to show any inclination to commence drilling or to commence lobbying for drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. I make this suggestion because such an inclination would bring us back into the area of disputation and contention. Such is the feeling that surrounds the protection of the Reef that oil drilling will not be accepted by the people at large. 
What concerns me also is that the Government has decided for some reason or other that the States should be given back- I take it that this was taken away from the States by legislation and various High Court decisions- the responsibility for the supervision of waters within the three-mile limit. I want a clear statement from the Minister and the Government as to whether the Commonwealth Government has handed back the responsibility for the supervision of waters within the three-mile limit to the State governments, especially the Government of Queensland. If it has done so, we will find that the Great Barrier Reef will be again subject to the mercy of the Premier of Queensland and those who support him. 
I know that  Senator Maunsell  is taking notes. He will possibly say that I have engaged in an unjustified attack on the Premier of Queensland, who is a great national hero and who is two months away from holding the record for being Premier of the State. However, I say that in the past the Great Barrier Reef has almost proven to be Bjelke-Petersen's downfall.- Looking at the events of the past few weeks, I think that it is a pity that it has not. The future of the Great Barrier Reef, a national and world heritage, cannot be entrusted to the decisions of  Mr BjelkePetersen.  I ask the Minister whether it is correct that the responsibility for the three-mile limit now rests with the Government of Queensland. If that is the case, let us start showing our concern about the future of the Great Barrier Reef. 
The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority is already at a disadvantage. Its jurisdiction does not extend further than the shallow water around each island. The Bjelke-Petersen Government has allowed, and even encouraged, the development of industrial complexes on these islands as well as along the coast. These industrial complexes are a very real threat to the ecology of the Great Barrier Reef. Even with this knowledge the Federal Government seems to be intent on handing over even more of the responsibility for the Reef to those people who can be described only as vandals- vandals who seem to be in control of the Government of Queensland. 
The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority seems to be in a strange position. I have not been able to ascertain who is the  Chairman  of the Authority. I wonder whether the Minister can tell me that. It was Don McMichael. Who is it at the present time? Is there an Acting Chairman? If so, who is he? Why is the position still being filled in an acting capacity? If I recall correctly, the legislation was changed some time ago to alter the status of the person who could be the  Chairman  of the Authority. Why is there a delay in filling the position? What is the purpose of it? Is it to weaken the standing and status of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority? Is it to give added strength to the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee, which was supposed to be merely an advisory committee? Incidentally, the Consultative Committee was set up to enable people with particular expertise to assist the Authority. I should have thought that the Consultative Committee would consist of people with a special interest in the Great Barrier Reef. I should have thought that it would consist of not only environmentalists but also laymen who have a sincere desire to see that the Great Barrier Reef is maintained as a single ecosystem- people who realise its importance and know its worth to the community at large. In that regard I refer not only to the Australian community but also to the world community at large. 
I have always questioned the character and composition of the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee. I have just been handed a list of the membership of that Committee.  Mr J.  F. S. 
Brown, the  Chairman,  is a member of the Queensland Confederation of Industry. The Committee members include  Mr L.  F. Backen of the Commonwealth Department of National Resources,  Mr J.  C. Ballingall of the Queensland Commercial Fishermen's State Council,  Dr D.  W. Connell of the Australian Conservation Foundation,  Mr P.  B. Eccles of the Commonwealth Department of Transport and  Mr P.  F. Ellis of the Queensland Co-ordinator-General's Department.  Mr Gilmartin  of the Australian Institute of Marine Science was on the list but his name seems to have been deleted. Other Committee members include  Mr E.  Hegerl of the Queensland Conservation Council,  Mr J.  H. Izatt of the Queensland Game Fishing Association,  Mr J.  P. Killoran- a familiar name- of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement,  Dr J.  T. Baker of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority,  Dr P.  Mather of the Great Barrier Reef Committee, Professor J. D. Ovington of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service,  Mr A.  J. Peel of the Queensland Department of Harbours and Marine, Mr E. A. Purnell-Webb of the Commonwealth Department of Primary Industry,  Mr G.  W. Saunders of the Queensland National Parks and Wildlife Service, Professor K. Stark of the James Cook University of North Queensland,  Mr J.  Wilson of the Queensland Tourist Bureau and  Mr J.  T. Woods of the Queensland Department of Mines. 
I am reinforced by some of the names on that list. Nevertheless, on reflection, there seems to me to be too many representatives of the bureaucracy upon the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee. It seems to me that there are representatives of a variety of organisations whose interests would conflict with the general interest, which 1 believe is a strong interest, namely, the protection of the Great Barrier Reef as a whole. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Amendment Bill will ensure that the representative of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority on the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee will remain a member of that Authority, as he should do; that the representative status is that of a direct appointee. The Authority's representative on the Committee is a member or an acting member of the Authority. The Bill delineates the northern boundaries of the Great Barrier Reef. It closes off the tip of Cape York to ensure that the region has been legally declared. 
This Bill is concerned mostly with changes in legislative machinery. On the whole these changes are acceptable to the Opposition, but one of the proposed amendments does not satisfy us. For that reason we intend to move an amendment to sub-section 5 of section 10 of the principal Act by omitting paragraph (a) of clause 3 of the Bill and substituting the following paragraph: 
by omitting from sub-section 5 'the field of biological conservation' and substituting 'the environmental sciences': and. 
I think that amendment will be circulated. 
I take it that the Clerks have that in hand. If not, I should hand in the proposed amendment so that it is available for the Committee stage of the Bill. I think that there is sufficient time for us to go through all stages of this Bill tonight. We will be moving that amendment at the Committee stage. The Government wishes to change the legal requirement for the  Chairman  of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority so that he must hold special academic qualifications and have experience in the field of biological conservation. The Government wishes to substitute for the appointment of the  Chairman  the requirement that the  Chairman  will have to possess qualifications or extensive experience in a field related to functions of the Authority. We agree that the existing requirement is too rigid. Very few people would qualify under such strenuous demands, but the Government's proposed amendment means that the  Chairman  need have no relevant experience or qualifications; that is, no environmental or scientific experience or qualifications. It would mean that the Authority could be made up of three people without specifically relevant experience or qualifications. Of course, that supports a query I raised previously about the reason for the delay. Because I am a suspicious person the suspicion arises that perhaps the changes are being made to fit a particular person that the Government may have in mind. I am entitled to express that suspicion strongly, having in mind the track record of the Government when it comes to making appointments. Either it deletes people it does not like or it bides its time and appoints people whom it specially requires and who it believes will carry out its requirements and wishes. 
-The trouble with us, if I might say so, is that we took a view that such behaviour was reprehensible. I know that we were always accused of creating jobs for the boys, but we really did not know how to do it. If we need an example of how it should be done we should be looking at the record of appointments of this Government over the past couple of years because this Government can do it with impunity. It is part of its ethic, but it is certainly not part of ours. When we do it, we are rather clumsy about it. When the Government does it, it does it with style, it does it regularly and it gets away with it because it is never really exposed. Honourable senators should not divert me from what 1 was saying because I do not wish to take up too much time of the Senate. I know that there is other business to come before the Senate. We were promised that legislation would come forward rapidly. It is not my place to be holding the floor to make the Government comfortable. Judging from the way we are proceeding, if the Government does not produce some further legislation for debate tonight we may as well pack up and go home at 9.30. That, of course, is a reflection on the Government. It is not a reflection on the Opposition. We maintain our position and we make our comments, but at least we expect the Government to be keeping legislation up to us. I am afraid it is failing to do so. If the Government Whip suddenly races through the door and starts to complain about the comments I am making, let him reflect very carefully on just what we are going to be doing between 9.30 and 10.30 tonight. 
The other two members of the Authority are not required to have specific qualifications or experience. If the  Chairman  is not required to have specific qualifications and experience, what will be the status of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority? The Authority is the paramount body responsible for the future protection of the Reef. Having in mind the representations from so many departments and from such a varied field, the Consultative Committee, if it were not checked by a firm strong, reasoned and experienced Authority, could lead in my view to the fragmentation of the Reef. My view is that the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority's special scientific status would protect the Reef against any desire or endeavour of the Consultative Committee to fragment and to divide this vast area. 
Why is there to be no legal requirement on any member of the Authority to have experience or qualifications directly relevant to the environmental sciences? We believe that many people, conservationists and others, will see this alteration to the professional requirements of the  Chairman  as an attempt to re-order the legislation and to fit it to a particular nominee for the job. That spells out the matter in more particular terms than the general terms in which I expressed it previously. The Australian Conservation Foundation is disturbed by this proposed amendment. It did not want any change to the legal requirement for relevant expertise. Although it is true that the existing requirements make it too difficult to find suitably qualified people for the job of  Chairman,  I believe that this ought not to lead to the weakening of the qualifications of the status of the position. Surely there are many men or women overseas with sufficient status who, given the necessary economic incentive, would take on such a responsible and worthwhile job. 
There is a way in which the Government can ease these difficulties and at the same time fulfil the obvious need for the relevant environmental and scientific.experience. We will be moving an amendment to section 10 of the principal Act. We will move that in sub-section (5) the words the field of biological conservation' be omitted and replaced with the words 'the environmental sciences'. I believe that our amendment would serve to calm the justifiable fears of the conservationists that the  Chairman  could be merely a cipher for government policies. It would make the job accessible to a wider variety of people who, although eminently suitable in terms of experience and qualifications, nevertheless are unable to fulfil the demands of the existing requirements. 
I could add to those remarks. I could repeat my concern, but again I have a feeling that my concerns about the protection of the Great Barrier Reef and the many threats that face it are shared by others. There is no doubt that the Authority grew out of that concern. All of us in the Senate desire to see that the Authority works effectively for the protection of the Great Barrier Reef. One does not need to list the threats to the Reef from pollution from the rivers and the industrial complexes such as those at Gladstone. One can go back over the ground and consider the threat to the Barrier Reef from the movement of tankers in the channel coming from the north to the south. One can also speak of the cleaning out of tankers travelling between ports which adds to the general pollution of the area. One can speak of the threat to the Reef from insecticides which are used in a prolific way to control the pests that invade our cane fields. 
One could also point out the threat to the Reef from the tourist industry and the penetration of the Reef by people without proper advice on how to prevent the Reef from being damaged in any way by an overcollection of shells or by the overexposure of some of the micro-organisms that exist on the Barrier Reef. One can also speak of the continuing threat to the Reef from the crownofthorns starfish, a problem which still exists. In addition to those problems one could also clearly state that unless the problems are met, properly investigated and understood then the overall standard and acceptance of the Reef as an area of tremendous natural beauty might in some way be diminished. If that acceptance is allowed to diminish then it will permit commercial interests to invade the area. 
It needs to be accepted that the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority is a prestigous authority with a great responsibility which this legislation gives to it. It would be unwise to allow that Authority and its status to be in any way diminished. What the Opposition expects to do in support of the Bill, by way of the proposed amendment, is to make it easier for the Government to carry out the wishes of the people of Australia as expressed many times within the Senate. 
I have an amendment to clause 3, which reads: 
Section 10 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting sub-section (5); and 
by omitting from sub-section (6) 'part-time'. 
I move: 
Omit paragraph (a), insert the following paragraph: 
by omitting from sub-section (5) 'the field of biological conservation' and inserting 'the environmental sciences'; and 
Copies of the amendment have been circulated. We have debated the proposition at the second reading stage of the Bill. I do not wish to enlarge upon that debate. I believe that what the Opposition is proposing will at least give some very definite limits to the nature of the appointment. The Government's amendment will have the effect of opening the field and the person appointed may not be an expert in the field. It is not necessary for the  chairman  of certain scientific instrumentalities or boards to be expert in the scientific area- he may be an administrator. However, the Great Barrier Reef is an area of special concern and I think it is necessary to have a scientist as  Chairman  of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority- the dominant person of a committee of three. Since there has been some difficulty in obtaining someone with qualifications in the biological field, we could widen the concept by appointing someone who is an expert in the environmental sciences. I cannot understand why the Government does not accept that proposition. Perhaps the intention of the Government is to place the Authority under a commercial type of administrative control which in some way would limit, inhibit or put down the scientific expertise of the rest of the Authority. 
I ask the Minister to give me the names and the qualifications of the two other members of the Authority. I have already read into the record the names of the members of the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee. I think the Senate will appreciate that a consultative committee should function in the way that its name implies- it should be consultative. We should never have a situation in which the tail wags the dog. Perhaps when the Minister gives us the names of the other two members of the Authority and details of their qualifications we will be able to judge how much more strongly we should push our amendment. 
-I think that the Minister is under a misconception. By substituting the environmental sciences for the biological sciences we are broadening the field considerably. There is no doubt that the environmental sciences cover a larger field than the biological sciences. They are directed fairly strictly to biological expertise, but the environmental sciences can cover a fairly large field. They can cover ecologists and many other people. With my layman's knowledge, I have gained the impression that we are broadening the field. 
The Government is opening the area of appointment so that a person with little scientificability but considerable commercial and administrative qualifications could be appointed. The Government may argue that this is necessary. We argue that this is dangerous when one takes into consideration the position of the two other members of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority.  Mr Schubert  is a distinguished publicservant in Queensland. He is, as the Minister stated, the Co-ordinator-General of Public Works in Queensland. But his position on the Authority is that of Queensland 's representative. I should have thought that the Queensland appointee would have come from the ecological, environmental or biological sciences. There are quite a number of people in Queensland who would have been suited to hold that position. Nevertheless, it has been decided that  Mr Schubert  is to be the person to hold the position. 

 Dr Baker is eminent in his own field of pharmacology. He is the Director of the Roche Research Institute of Marine Pharmacology, which has done a deal of research on the Great Barrier Reef. But that research has been directed to its own interests. He is not an ecologist or a scientist in the environmental area. Perhaps I would be doing him an injustice if I were to say that he is not a scientist in the biological area. Perhaps the Minister will give me some information which will enlighten me further on this point. But these two men are limited in respect of the basic scientific requirements that are needed for the protection of the Great Barrier Reef and the development of a concept that will protect the delicate ecosystem of the Reef. 
I have some concern about the Government's proposition. It is quite possible that as a result of the Government's amendment we will have as members of the Authority an administrator and a co-ordinator-general, who do not have the necessary scientific background, and who could outvote  Dr Baker  and make decisions which could be detrimental to the future of the Great Barrier Reef. So I am not comforted by what the Minister has said. I merely suggest that he may do better if he accepts the proposition that the Opposition is putting forward, that is, that the amendment will broaden the rather narrowness of the original Bill and as such should really be acceptable. The danger of having an Authority that is too limited in its scientific knowledge and its scientific dedication to service of the Great Barrier Reef needs to be avoided. 
-by leave- We are now advised of an industrial dispute. I consider it important that we should be advised of the nature of the dispute and the reason for it. I think you,  Mr President,  have given us some general information. But it is coming to a stage now where Parliament is being affected by people removing their labour. This happened with the strike in the Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms. We found ourselves without the services, most unnecessarily, of our staff at Parliament House. Subsequently we discovered that the causes for that stoppage could have been avoided. I wonder,  Mr President,  whether you could tell us just what is the nature of the dispute and whether it is being, shall we say, handled in a way which may prolong it to the disadvantage of the Parliament? Is there any way in which we can rapidly come to some understanding of the problems of the people who are involved in this dispute? Why is it that we are faced with a withdrawal of labour? In my experience I cannot recall a previous occasion when this has happened. We find that the records of the Parliament will not be available in time for the sitting tomorrow. Perhaps it might be reasonable in the circumstances for us all to go out on strike in sympathy because if we do not have the records, how can we proceed to carry out our work effectively. If you gave us the reason,  Mr President,  for this action then we may have cause to go out in support. Without enlarging on that,  Mr President,  I wonder whether you could assure us that we are not entering an area of industrial disputation that could easily be avoided. 
-I second the amendment and reserve my right to speak to the motion. I seek leave to make a brief statement as the Opposition Whip. 
Leave granted. 
I am prompted by some of the interjections from the Government side which may give the impression that some arrangement was made as to the length of speaking times in this debate. There is general agreement that this matter, important as it is, should be decided today, but because it is a conscience matter a decision as to taking part in the debate has been left to individuals concerned. It is for the Government to decide whether it wishes to come to some arrangement with its members. I just put it to the Senate that although there is general agreement that the matter should be decided today, many things will be said as the debate proceeds and there will be less to be said later on by subsequent speakers. Some intending speakers may even withdraw from the debate. But no one who has an important contribution to make should be limited in this debate. I believe very strongly that it is a matter for the individual and that is why we on the Opposition side did not come to an agreement, as we have on previous occasions, to limit speaking times to 10 or 12 minutes. Surely in this debate speakers should be free to extend their arguments despite the need to complete the debate some time today. 

 - Mr President, I was on my feet. I do not think that you would deny me the right to speak briefly on the adjournment. I merely want to indicate - 
-But we intend to vote against the adjournment also. That is why I am on my feet. The Opposition takes the view that after such a long debate we should come to a decision tonight. That is the reason we go along with the Government. Let me also say that because the debate will not be adjourned possibly we will deny three other senators the right to participate in this matter of conscience next week. I believe this factor also ought to be taken into consideration. Nevertheless it could always be argued that they should be here tonight. It is possible that if this debate continued next Tuesday the result would be different from that which we will reach tonight. 
I had intended to move for the adjournment of the debate. It will proceed if we oppose the adjournment of the Senate. I was going to move along those lines. However, I have again considered the fact that the debate has been a long one. I have yet to speak and when I do possibly I will explain why I think the debate should have been adjourned so that the matter could be reconsidered by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. However, I will not use this opportunity as a device to explain the reason why I intended to seek an adjournment at a later stage. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Can the Minister express some alarm at the figures revealed - 
-I am certain that she will express alarm. I am giving her the opportunity to do so. I refer to the infant mortality rate of Aborigines in the Northern Territory. According to reports the rate soared by 41 per cent between 1976 and 1977. I wonder whether the Minister could explain to us why this is so and what action is being taken to correct that situation. 
If the honourable senator looks at the Notice Paper he will find out who are the members of the Committee. I am one of the members of that Committee. For some reason or another this Ordinance got through the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances without receiving the scrutiny that it should have had. If it had had that scrutiny, I would say, based on the opinions voiced by members of that Committee, that they themselves would have moved for the disallowance. I say that they would have moved for the disallowance because when the Ordinance came before the Committee on 14 September 1978  Senator Hamer,  who addressed himself so well to the proposition today, raised the question of whether the subject was too important to be dealt with by ordinance. In other words, he was saying that it was a matter which should be dealt with by substantive legislation. He was right in raising the matter, but I am afraid that the advice given to him, on scrutiny, appears to be incorrect. 
I say that because section 4, clause (3) on the first page of the 55th report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances says: 
That the Committee would recommend to the Senate that it be authorised to revise its charter so that it will no longer apply to A.C.T. Ordinances approved by the Legislative Assembly the Committee's fourth principle relating to substantive legislation. 
It was not until  Senator Cavanagh  raised the point that it may have been necessary to have considered this matter with more caution - 
-He is a member of the Committee. I do not say that we ought not to raise this matter. If I had spoken earlier I would have moved possibly for the adjournment of this debate so that the matter could go back to the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. 
It would have allowed the Committee at least to discuss it and to come forward with the proposition that the Ordinance should be disallowed. It should not have been the initiative of  Senator Ryan  to move for the disallowance. I am convinced that the Committee, which has so much standing in this place, would have brought the matter forward to be dealt with not by ordinance but by substantive legislation. 
If the matter had been brought forward by the Committee in this way, I would have supported  Senator Hamer  in his view. From what he and  Senator Cavanagh  have said today it would have been a matter for substantive legislation and the Ordinance would have been disallowed. The matter cannot be adjourned at this late stage. Members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee have spoken strongly against this particular Ordinance and supported the proposition that it be disallowed. We will have to rest on their advocacy in this place. But I suggest that we look carefully at that recommendation and be clear about it. If the Legislative Assembly rejects the Ordinance we will have to apply the fourth principle about which  Senator Cavanagh  spoke. I believe that if the matter had reached the Senate in this way, the Senate would have been influenced in a different manner to the way in which it has been influenced today. 
-by leave- I welcome the report that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  has put down and trust that he is giving us an assurance that that is to be the program, that the Government will not suddenly introduce next week new legislation which will prolong the activity of the Parliament. I think I mentioned this previously. I take it that what he has now given us is a clear program which we can consider. 
Yes, it is amazing how emergencies suddenly appear unexpectedly as a result of pressure from a particular Minister or particular department, but there is no doubt that the program he has indicated is such as can be met within the times that he has indicated, and the Opposition will co-operate accordingly. 
The Estimates debate which takes place in the Committee of the Whole is always stimulating because it brings forward points which we miss when the Estimates Committees are meeting separately, possibly because honourable senators are not able to attend all the meetings of the Estimates Committees. Adding to what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said about the importance of preventing the Executive from controlling the Parliament, in Queensland this situation has been taken to a very dangerous extreme and there the Executive does control the Parliament. It traditionally has done so but it has come to the point where the Executive is endeavouring to assert control to the disadvantage of the  Speaker  and of the Parliament. 
I make a brief plea in support of the Whips in this place. For some reason or other the staff of the Whips, especially on the Opposition side, is supplied at the whim of the Prime Minister of the day. It is fortunate that the Opposition has accepted that its Whip's office should be staffed according to its proper requirements and at the level set down for the Government Whip 's office. However, that is so only because of the attitude that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  has taken. However, if the direction of Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  were to be followed, it would mean that the Opposition Whip would have no establishment staff as such. The Prime Minister for some reason or other has determined also that the staff of the Whips shall be based in Canberra. In other words he has imposed a limitation on the staff of the Whips which ought not to be imposed by him but which ought to be considered by the  President  of the Senate. 
I take it that the  President  accepts that the two Whips' offices are annexes to this very chamber itself and need to be manned in the highest capacity. Not only that, but also the Whips themselves, because of the amount of work they have to face when the Parliament is in session, neglect considerably the work of their electoral offices while they are engaged on what is very much a fulltime occupation in this place. The work of the offices tends to fall behind when the Parliament is sitting yet the Prime Minister has dictated that not only should the staff of the Whips be Canberra based but also they should not be allocated any facility for travel in order that the Whips during the recess may take their staff back to their electoral office to do their work and to reduce the amount of work that has accumulated. The Whip is not able to do that. He is not able to use his staff to the best advantage. It seems to me to be a rather arbitrary action on the part of the Prime Minister and on the part of the Executive so to determine. 
I would have thought that the important office of Whip and the staffing of the Whips' offices should be a matter for the  President  of the Senate and not a matter for the Prime Minister. The  President  would be in a better position to assess whether the Whips should be given some facilities and whether their staff should be given at least the same entitlements that are given to staff members of other senators. I believe that at present all senators receive six travel entitlements a year for their staff to enable research assistants and electoral assistants to come to Canberra. But for some reason or other the staff of the Whips are not included. It seems to me most necessary that the Whips should be able to use their clerks to the best advantage. That is not the case. I wonder whether the  President  or the Minister can express a view on that matter. Why is it that the Prime Minister has taken such a stand? Why is it that he has limited the ability of the Whips to use their staff to the best advantage? It seems to me to be an extraordinary example of what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has pointed out; the Executive has intruded into an area where it should not intrude. For that reason I express again what I have expressed before- the need for the  President  to look very closely at the staffing position in which the Whips, especially the Opposition Whip, find themselves. 

 Senator MacGibbon has just come into the chamber. He might be encouraged to tell the 
Senate exactly what his position as a senator isfinding himself without suitable premises in his electorate for a period of six months. He may not want to put that case at present but it seems to me extraordinary that a new senator should find himself unable to operate to the greatest efficiency because of some limitation placed upon him which should not be placed upon him. 
I have no complaint in that regard because the office I occupy at present is well equipped. It is equipped as well as the office of any senator in this Parliament. But I might say that I had to wait four months before I achieved this. I thought that that might have been just an odd-one-out situation. But I believe that my experience not only has been matched; but also has been exceeded by  Senator MacGibbon.  The senator's office is very much a part of this Parliament. At present that matter comes within the responsibilities of the Department of Administrative Services. No matter how well the staff at the Department of Administrative Services endeavour to work on behalf of the member they find themselves under severe budgetary restrictions.  Senator MacGibbon  has an old table, I am told, and a couple of old chairs. 
I am told that one honourable senator does not have a table at all. It is an extraordinary situation in which we find ourselves. Having been elected to the Parliament, we then have to wait for a considerable period before we receive the facilities that are necessary for us to do our jobs correctly. Again, the  President  may say that that does not come within his area of responsibility but rather within the area of responsibilities of the Department of Administrative Services. Again, we extend  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's argument that even that area should be a matter for the Parliament itself and not for the Public Service Board or the Executive Government of the day. I put those points forward. 
-I would like to ask a question within the ambit of the Department of Science. It concerns a matter that I have raised in this place. 
Consideration interrupted. 
I should like to know whether there has been adequate debate on this proposition. If there has not been, for the sake of those who were not in the chamber perhaps there could be some explanation of the need for such a motion. If there was a debate of course honourable senators will be able to read the  Hansard  record. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I take this opportunity of asking the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  just what has eventuated in New South Wales, what results have been achieved, what progress has been made and what the Government is doing in connection with those recent cases of misuse of benefits that involved the Greek community. 
Yes, alleged misuse. I would like the Minister at this stage to give us some information on whether the Government is proceeding in the matter and, if so, at what level. Also, how many people are still involved, what assistance is being given to those who cannot afford it and does the Government intend to persist with court proceedings? 
During Estimates Committee C proceedings the Department of Aboriginal Affairs came under very close scrutiny. I think it is admitted that for the first time the Department of Aboriginal Affairs gave very detailed information which was helpful to the Committee, at least for the short period when I attended the Committee hearings. So we have a report of a substantial nature from 
Estimates Committee C. Many questions were asked. I do not know whether we have all the answers to them. However, we did get more information this year than we have done on previous occasions. 
I wish to refer briefly to the matter raised by  Senator Kilgariff.  He gave some information on a matter upon which I had based a question to  Senator Guilfoyle  as the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and that is, the Aboriginal infant mortality rate in the Northern Territory. According to the Department of Health annual report the Aboriginal infant mortality rate in the Northern Territory took a sharp percentage rise in the years  1976  to  1977. 1  know that we can raise this matter when the proposed expenditure for the Department of Health is brought on, but I think it is necessary to raise it in connection with this Department's estimates because I would have thought that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs would have a specific concern about this sharp increase in the Aboriginal infant mortality rate. It is a concern that should be reinforced when one remembers that the expectation was that the infant mortality rate would decrease. There having been such a sharp increase after so much money being spent in that area, the situation must now be considered as urgent. It has been said before that if those figures related to white babies and if the rate of infant mortality were to be related to some problem in a white community, it would be considered an emergency situation and emergency measures would have been put into effect. That may be being too critical, but surely the Department must now have some explanation for the situation.  Senator Guilfoyle  will recall that I asked her whether the Government was prepared to make a statement on this matter. I do not think that such a statement has come forward. Perhaps the Department has a view on this. Perhaps the Department has a reason for the situation. Perhaps it can give us some explanation. What is to be done about the situation? 
I am reminded of a question asked by  Senator Puplick  this morning which placed our position in this area in a very poor light compared with the positions of countries north of us. I think our infant mortality rate placed us just slightly ahead of Sri Lanka and one or two other countries in South East Asia. Has our poor reputation come about as a result of the heavy infant mortality in the Northern Territory? We go to tremendous measures to protect the life of a single child; why do we not take similar measures to protect the lives of hundreds of children? It is in stark contrast to our debate last Thursday when we were debating the rights of the unborn child. Now we seem to have evidence that we are neglecting the life of the child itself, especially the Aboriginal child. If I sound serious it is because I am serious and I feel the matter ought to be taken up.  Senator Kilgariff  has raised the matter. He represents the Northern Territory and for that reason he has a special concern.  His  concern has spread to the rest of us but I wonder whether it has spread to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. If it has not, why has it not? 
-Can I take the matter a little further? The amount of money which the Government intends to spend is a little more than it intends to spend on those infamous turtle farms in Torres Strait when during the investigations we found that it was proposed to spend Sim on what was perhaps the greatest hoax of all time. That Sim was to support some six or seven turtle farms in the Torres Strait region. That is another matter but I contrast it with what we are doing in endeavouring to correct a very serious situation in the Northern Territory as far as the health of Aboriginal communities is concerned as evidenced in infant mortality figures. I say to the Minister that we cannot let the matter rest, because if there is such a high mortality rate with infants then the overall standard of health of the whole community must be poor because many survive but do so in a very deprived state. The errors of the past are still very much with us. 
The Government should reconsider the proposed expenditure. It should forget about budgetary restrictions and requirements and regard this as a matter of extreme emergency. It may be necessary for us to improve the dietary position of whole Aboriginal communities in certain areas in order to allow children to be conceived and reared with sufficient nutrition. I am not an expert on these matters, but  Dr Kalokerinos  is one doctor who has written so urgently about the protein shortage in the nutrition of Aboriginal children. 
-And many other vitamins as well. It is a problem that becomes more serious as the child becomes older. The Aboriginal community can be intellectually repressed because of poor dietary provisions in the prenatal period and the immediate adolescent period. I put it again that it is an emergency which parallels those that suddenly occur in 
South East Asia- emergencies caused by flood, famine and earthquake- and to which we apply substantial sums of money. I do not question that aid. All I say is that we have an emergency which from this distance does not appear to be apparent. For instance, if all these children were to suddenly die by some sudden disaster caused by flood or by earthquake, we would be racing to the assistance of those communities, but because it is an insidious thing which has been suddenly revealed to us in the health report we seem not to give it the importance that we should. If I repeat myself, it is because I am trying to emphasise the seriousness of the situation. I can see a response in the Minister but nevertheless I think we have to take that response further than this place to see whether we can get the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of Health to consider it to be urgent. Cabinet and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  should also consider it to be urgent and apply the necessary moneys which will provide the health teams to go into those areas to correct the sorry situation. 
I enter into this debate at this late stage to make the point that for quite some time now we have had a running debate about the affairs of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and it seems to me that it is not now a matter for an investigation in New South Wales- it is very much a matter for this Parliament. We cannot continue to go on in this way with charge and counter-charge. Let us cast our minds back to other incidents in this place which led to the dismissal of the former Leader of the Government in the Senate. It was a very serious matter. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  took a high-principled stand, or so he said. I believe that it was an unfair stand but the former Leader of the Government in the Senate suffered by it . He suffered considerably because the whole of his career, the whole of his future, has been blighted by the decision of the Prime Minister. In fairness to  Senator Withers,  we have never really debated that dismissal. We have never raised the matter since then and stated that we believed that it was for the Senate to decide whether 

 Senator Withers had misled the Senate. We have not raised it since then because we felt that  Senator Withers  had suffered sufficiently at the hands of the Prime Minister without the Senate taking a further stand. 
But here we have a different situation, a different attitude, a different position being taken by the Prime Minister as far as the Minister for Primary Industry is concerned. Really, it ought not to be allowed to continue in this way. I think that the matter ought to be brought to a head. It is quite possible that  Mr Sinclair,  the Minister for Primary Industry, is being treated most unfairly, but the matter ought to be resolved. There ought not to be a conflict as to whether evidence should be brought before this House which may enable us to determine whether  Mr Sinclair  is at fault. The Prime Minister says that he is not at fault, yet there is a very big question mark over  Mr Sinclair.  I believe that the Prime Minister is partisan about this matter.  Senator Walsh  raised the matter here tonight and  Senator Carrick  challenged him to give the source of his material. I think that  Senator Walsh  has tabled part of a document. 
It is an unattested document. Unfortunately, I have in my hand a document which is very important to this whole matter. My view is that the document I have here ought to be tabled and printed so that we can decide as a parliament just exactly where the fault lies. I have the document in front of me and I seek leave not only to table it but also to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
I would agree with that. However, the matter which has been raised in this way tonight and which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has refuted can in some way be supported by the document which I have. I seek leave to have this document incorporated. I am prepared, as I continue, to hand over the document to the Minister so that he can look at it and determine whether it should be incorporated in  Hansard.  If he does not give leave I can take the time of the Senate to read it, but I do not wish to do that. That would only extend the sitting of the Senate. 
I am seeking leave to have the matter incorporated. 
I do not think that honourable senators should be debating an issue which involves a member of another House and a quasi judicial inquiry that is taking place. I do not see any reason why we should debate and introduce documents in relation to a member of another House- I use this only by way of example because the previous  speaker  in the debate mentioned it- any more than we should have any sort of debate about any matter that might involve somebody else who is concerned with a proceeding which is taking place outside this chamber. I simply urge that some of the more vigorous members of the Opposition give some thought to the consequences of this action. I am reminded of what happened yesterday during Question Time. Probably politics became involved in Question Time and the debate proceeded back and forth across the chamber. This shows what can happen when we start using the chamber in a way in which perhaps it was not intended to be used. I would hope that we would not try to debate the matter that has been raised or table the document which honourable senators opposite are seeking to table just as we should not debate a matter involving anybody else who is involved in some proceeding which is actually underway outside this chamber. 

 -Mr President, I am sorry to say that this matter has gone on far too long. I think that it ought to be brought fairly clearly before the Parliament. It just cannot go on in this way. As has happened in the other place, and it will possibly happen in this chamber, there is a tendency for the debate to degenerate into a continuing exchange. 
-Of course, there has been a considerable amount of that on both sides of the Senate over a long period. I remember the long session that took place prior to the dismissal of the Labor Government. Both in this Parliament and in the Queensland Parliament there was a long and insidious campaign of muckraking. The problem that we face in respect of the Minister for Primary Industry has been a continuing one. The contents of this document sooner or later will be put into the Senate record. I have that document here before me. Part of the document has been tabled. I am insisting, since this is the case, that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  take a look at this document and allow me to have it incorporated in  Hansard  to bring the matter to a head. 
-I am not answering that. I have the document in front of me. It is fair enough for honourable senators to ask me where I got the document from. All I can say is that I have the document. It is in circulation. It is a matter of speculation and rumour. It may not contain the matters that honourable senators opposite fear so much. I believe that the best answer to the problem is to have the document incorporated in  Hansard.  Sufficient time should be given to the Leader of the Government to take a look at this document to judge whether or not it should be incorporated in the  Hansard  record. If he does not wish it to be incorporated, we can take the matter on from there. I cannot speak again in the adjournment debate once I resume my seat. I do not know how it could be done but perhaps another honourable senator could be given an opportunity to have the document incorporated. In fairness, the Minister must see the document. That is a standard rule in the Senate. I did not have an opportunity to show him the document before the debate. I did not think that it was necessary until  Senator Walsh  raised the matter. 

 The document having been shown to the Leader of the Government in the Senate- 

I am still on my feet. Apparently the Minister has indicated that he is not going to grant leave. 

 Honourable senators interjecting- 

Let us come to order. The Minister sought leave to make a statement while I still had the floor. That leave was refused. Whether it was in order or not, I do not know; but I would not have objected if the Minister had made a statement to explain why leave for the incorporation would not be granted. Now that I seek leave to have the matter incorporated he will refuse it. However, I seek leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard. 

 -Mr President, it is a lengthy document - 
It is the fundamental right and duty of the House to consider and discuss any matter, if it is thought to be in the public interest. 
I quote that paragraph because nobody has used that as an argument for saying that this matter ought to be permitted. Paragraph (3) states: 
If it is not inconsistent with fundamental rights and duties, the House should avoid setting itself up as an alternative forum or body of inquiry or permit its proceedings to interfere in the course of justice. 
I would also like to quote from a statement by  Dr HV.Evatton  page 200. 
I think I should be allowed to continue. I have listened to the points of order. I think I have reasonably tried to put the point of view that this document ought to be incorporated in the records of this House. The incorporation of the document was resisted in the other House. It has now emerged in this House. I make the point that it is necessary for this matter to be brought to a conclusion. Sooner or later this document will be in the record. I put that case to the Senate. I have been refused the right to incorporate the document in the record. I now have to decide whether to read it into the record tonight. 
-I know exactly how the time is going. I have to make my own decision as to what I should do. I can decide to read the document into the record tonight. Nevertheless, I have come to the conclusion that I shall give the matter some further time. I think the Government is foolish in resisting. It is now a matter of speculation. The matter will be speculated upon and churned around. I think the best idea is for the Senate to accept the incorporation but it has not done so. It is now left for me to decide whether to attempt to read the document into the record tonight. I will consider what I will do tomorrow. 
We are now in difficulty because we allowed  Senator Martin  by leave to refer to estimates that had been passed. However, what she has had to say has been important and has received strong support from this side of the chamber. What she has referred to needs to be answered by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster).  It may be that other honourable senators on this side have been stimulated to speak supporting her comments. The  Clerk  may be able to advise us whether by some device we can by leave go back to consider estimates that have been passed. I noticed that the advisers to the Minister possibly were caught off balance by the quickness with which we came to consider these estimates.  Mr Chairman,  perhaps you could consult and advise us shortly whether we can return to discuss further what  Senator Martin  has raised and allow the Minister to respond to it. 
I refer to division 827.01 National Companies and Securities Commission- Office of Provisional Executive Director where a provision of $150,000 has been made for the first time. I welcome that appropriation. It is almost 10 years since the Senate inquired into the stock exchanges throughout Australia. That inquiry revealed- perhaps this is an understatement- a substantial fraud. 
Perhaps the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  would like to respond. I briefly state that I strongly support what  Senator Martin  has raised. It has been of concern to both sides of the chamber that public servants in statutory organisations need to appreciate the authority- I use that word in its correct sense- of the Estimates committees and to give information when that information is sought and not to hedge in any way. We have had a deal of hedging on several committees when information has been sought.  Senator Martin  also referred to the failure of various statutory authorities and even departments to have their annual reports prepared and submitted, even if they are only in preliminary form, to the Parliament before the estimates are discussed. That matter is important. Not only is the authority to which  Senator Martin  referred at fault; many other departments and statutory authorities also have been at fault in that annual reports have not been available. The excuse given has been that the reports have not been printed. I think it would be satisfactory to have preliminary or draft reports before the Parliament and for the printing to take place at some later stage. What  Senator Martin  has raised is extremely valid. 
Statutory authorities and departments must realise that the Estimates committees' hearings are not just an idle exercise; they are an important function of this Parliament and of the Senate. The information that is sought should be given and the representation before the committees should be at the highest level. In most cases it is; in some cases it is not. It has become a matter of repetition in this place for honourable senators to complain that we are still seeking a better response from certain instrumentalities.  Senator Martin,  as  Chairman  of the Senate Estimates Committee A, is in the best position to make an assessment and she has the support of honourable senators on this side in the statement and comments she has made. 
Let me continue the arms length discussion. I would think that the example used by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  would be an example I would use to show just how necessary it is for this information to be provided. If that information is not available to the 
Parliament for scrutiny, how are we to be assured that such a contract was not given to a specially privileged or patronised person? It is necessary for us to know exactly who the consultant is, what services he will be giving and what price he will be charging for those services. It is very important that everyone else should know also because how can one separate that sort of a decision from a decision when one calls tenders? When one calls tenders they are confidential until the time the tendering is finalised and the contract is awarded. But once that is done all the information concerning the various tenders is available and should be available not only to the Parliament but also to the competitors as well. 
I am very suspicious of any arrangement which specially selects some person for some reason which is not evident and which is then protected by what is termed 'commercial confidentiality'. I cannot see any area which would justify withholding information from an Estimates committee. The Minister has not justified the situation one scrap. It is important for us to know the facts. We had this argument in relation to the National Gallery where large sums of money were being expended on works of art. We were told that we could not ask about the price of these works of art because of commercial confidentiality and that if we revealed the price that was paid or was to be paid the arrangement and the sale would be prejudiced. Maybe in anticipation of a purchase that might be so, but once the purchase is made all the information and the conditions applying to it should be made available. 
The Minister is saying, of course, that after a decision has been made there are certain areas in which confidentiality must be maintained. I cannot see that. If a contract is given to a consultant for special reasons that is all right but that should be disclosed because subsequently someone may say that the special reasons were not valid, that the money paid for those services was far too high and that, besides that, better equipment and services were available at lower prices. Surely the Minister will . accept the proposition that there is no confidentiality at all in that sort of transaction. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
What an extraordinary series of reports this is from the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and what extraordinary revelations they contain. We have received similar reports from the Public Accounts Committee previously and it is to be commended for its investigations. I trust that the Government will look at the Committee's recommendations and make them effective. I also suggest to the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  who is in charge of Government business this afternoon, and to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney),  whose responsibility has been brought so closely under scrutiny, that they should make the debate on the papers a matter of priority when the Parliament reassembles. I think it is necessary for us to examine closely the points that have been outlined in this further report from the Public Accounts Committee. We should take its reports as seriously or even more seriously than we take many other reports that come before the Parliament. There seems to be evidence here of a gross misuse of funds and, from its past record, the Senate does not take the misuse of funds lightly. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave-  I  move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I  seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 275 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That if the laws governing collection of fees from university students are amended so as to prohibit compulsory membership of student associations, the provision of support and welfare services to students will be grievously curtailed. 
That the present provision for conscientious objection to student bodies at the Australian National University represents an adequate and sufficient safeguard to personal liberties. 
That in order to ensure complete freedom of association within universities, and to ensure the automony and intellectual freedom of student bodies the prevailing system should not be done away with. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that provisions for membership of student bodies at the Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education should not be altered. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I refer the Minister for Education to a question asked earlier by  Senator Knight.  The Minister has announced today that he intends to introduce legislation concerning the payment of student fees at two institutions- the Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education. Because both institutions are engaged in discussions which may lead to some self-regulation on the matter, wil the Minister re-consider his answer and not close off his options? Will he also consider the fact that the legislation that he proposes may not be necessary next February? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
May I take the opportunity to say that today quite a number of reports have been tabled. Over the past week the list of reports tabled has been as impressive as it is today. That spurs me to comment that these reports should be brought down before the Estimates committees complete their hearings. Each of these reports would have been of considerable interest to us as we investigated the expenditure of the various departments and associated corporations and institutions. So for that reason I again appeal to the Government to appeal to departments to have their reports presented before the Estimates committees begin their hearings. We have put up with this situation year after year. 
We have moved that the Senate take note of these reports, so they will go on to the Notice Paper now and it is possible that we will not debate them until well into next year. By that time we should be receiving the reports for the current year. If these reports are to be tabled as late as this, I feel that the Senate should take action in some way to convince the departments that the reports are necessary for the investigation of the Estimates. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Before seeking leave to continue my remarks later so that the proceedings of the Senate may carry on, I would like to say that this report is the most significant report that has come from the Joint Committee on Publications. If there are some of us who think that  Senator Missen  spoke far too long, we must appreciate that everything he said was worthy of note. I trust that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney),  who was in the chamber to listen to the comments accompanying the presentation of the report, will accept the criticisms set out in it. Of course, we cannot hold the Minister responsible because he has been in charge of the Department only for a short time. Out of this report emerges the fact that the Australian Government Publishing Service has had problems for a long time. They emerge in this report and if it were not for the recommendations we would be seriously concerned about the situation. However, the recommendations are of such a definitive nature that if they are carried out possibly the problems of the Service will be at an end. 
I would like to take just faint credit for the report, from looking at the membership of the Joint Committee on Publications, I notice that I am a member. I was appointed on 17 August 1978. I must apologise for the fact that because of other duties I was not able to attend meetings. Therefore I cannot take the fullest credit for the nature of the report. Nevertheless I take some reflected credit and I trust that the report will come before the Senate, as I have suggested other reports should come before the Senate, at an early opportunity so that we can see whether or not the Minister is prepared to respond to the recommendations. If he is not, if the Government is not, all this worthy effort will have been of little avail. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The Opposition does not oppose the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill 1978. The Bill provides for payments to the States of grants in respect of current expenditure on schools, in respect of capital expenditure on schools, and in respect of other school programs for the year 1979. The total payment made by the Commonwealth is in excess of $600m. It is appropriate to say that the needs of Australian schools were assessed by the Schools Commission in accordance with its charter, and in its most recent report the Schools Commission indicated that, although it assessed the needs, the guidelines on a one per cent increase in real terms imposed by the Government and the directions given by the Government to the Schools Commission imposed severe limitations on the capacity to fulfil real needs. 
It should be noted that the expenditure allocated to capital is down in real terms at a time when there is a rundown of activity in the construction industry and when many schools still have real needs in terms of buildings and physical resources. The Government has virtually abdicated responsibility for government schools to the State governments and within the non-government sector has allocated increased funds to the level 1 schools- the wealthy private schools- and comparatively small funds to the level 6 schools, which are the poorer Catholic parochial schools. In this regard the Government has departed substantially from the needs principle. That is to be regretted. 
The statement issued by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on the 21 November under the heading 'Progress in Education' ignores some of the Government's commitment to inequality in the Australian schools system. While criticising the thrust and direction of Government policy in relation to schools, the Opposition regards this legislation as essentially machinery to provide for the payment to the States of Commonwealth funds for schools, and accordingly it is not opposed to the Bill. 
The States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Bill 1978 provides funding to Australian universities for the triennium and funding to the colleges of advanced education sector and the technical and further education sector for the year 1979. It is a machinery Bill, which the Opposition does not oppose. It is interesting to note that funding for the colleges of advanced education and the TAFE sector for the years 1980 and 1981 is not provided, because their funding will be considered for these years after consideration of the Williams Report on Education and Training and after the receipt of other advice by the Government. This suggests that recurrent finance for universities will not be affected by the Williams Committee report. If so, the Government appears to be prejudging the report of the Williams inquiry. 
As a matter of fact I am just reading from notes. If the honourable senator wants me to expand on the notes I could possibly extend my speech to 45 minutes or even 50 minutes. 
-Yes, they are fairly copious notes. As the Minister indicated, the amounts provided are based on the Tertiary Education Commission's report for the 1979-81 triennium, subject of course to the overriding factor of Government guidelines. 
The Opposition commends the provisions of the Bill providing for additional flexibility in expenditure, particularly in a no growth situation such as the universities are now suffering. There is a need for greater flexibility in expenditure arrangements, subject of course to proper accountability for that expenditure. I conclude by saying that the Opposition does not oppose the legislation. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- For the second time this week we are indebted to the Joint Committee of Public Accounts for the reports that it has brought down. We are suitably impressed with the amount of work that it has done. It surprises me that the Committee, meeting before the Parliament sits, has managed to deal with its work load. That it has been able to carry out an analysis of the problems that have been referred to it is worthy of admiration. Those are nice comments to make but they have to be made. We will need to look at the work load which we impose upon the Public Accounts Committee. I do not know whether the Committee is able to break into subcommittees. If it is not, such a provision should be made to facilitate its investigations. If that is not possible, we may reach the point where there will need to be not one but two Public Accounts Committees to enable the excellent work that has been detailed in this place this morning to be continued. 
-by leave-  Mr President,  we welcome what you have said. It is timely. I do not need to say anything further to what I have said previously. I do not know how you managed to time it so well. It is very much acceptable to the Opposition and will be a great advance. 
I refer the Leader of the Government in the Senate to the question asked by  Senator Messner  which he just answered. Is he aware of the latest report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation which highlights a growing problem on the home loan front? Has he read the article in the Australian  Financial Review  which states that because of the surge in home loan defaults recession has hit the great Australian dream? Is the evidence that is now emerging showing that because of the policies of the Government we are entering into a dangerous stage of recession? Unless the Government alters its position many people in the housing industry and the home ownership area will be in increasing difficulty. This will affect the whole economy. That picture is contrary to the picture the Minister just painted in answer to  Senator Messner  's question. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I do so in order to make a few sharp comments about the proposed presentation of papers. On the last day of the sitting a three-page list of reports and other papers are to be presented. These include important reports which, in the normal course, would have been the subject of considerable debate. I refer, for instance, to the text of Australia's Model Bilateral Nuclear Safeguards Agreement, and to the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs entitled 'Australia and Papua New Guinea: Negotiations on Maritime Boundaries and on Other Matters Relating to Torres Strait. These very important statements and reports are to be tabled on the last day when we are unable to debate or comment on them properly. On several occasions I have remarked on the importance of not introducing significant legislation in the last week of the sittings, especially preceding a long recess. Today we have another problem emerging in that reports are being presented in substantial numbers on the last day of sitting. 
Yesterday I commented on the fact that we had before us a list of reports that was two pages long. Today the list is three pages. During the last week we have had tabled reports that should have been tabled before the Estimates committees sat. I made that complaint yesterday. Today, I wish to complain that three pages of important statements, upon which we are unable to comment, are to come before the Senate. One can resort to the device of taking note of these papers and adjourning debate, but that debate would take place half way through next year when, in many cases, events may have passed us by. I ask the Government to accept my criticism and make certain that next year this problem does not recur. 

 Senator CARRICK (New South WalesMinister for Education)- I share the worry of honourable senators concerning the delay in the presentation of some reports. I share their concern that reports have not been available for the Estimates committees, and that debate upon them has not been possible. May I indicate to honourable senators that if, upon the resumption of the Parliament for the autumn sittings, they want to respond to particular reports by debate I will see whether we can arrange that at an early date. I know that that is no compensation for delay. I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I have already commented on the fact that this very important statement should have been debated during the present sesssional period. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 

 Mr President, may I say that as we proceed with the presentation of these reports I become more irritated because of their importance. Perhaps on this last day I ought not to allow myself to become as irritated as I became yesterday. However, I reaffirm the remarks I made yesterday. I notice that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  is acknowledging my remarks by nodding his head. I trust that this will be the last occasion on which this sort of thing will happen in this place. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
Might I add to the remarks that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  has just made. We do not mind having these important papers presented to us, but we would like to have them presented at a time when they can be debated. We will place them on the Notice 
Paper. I trust that this paper will be debated at an early opportunity. 
The reports of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development are of great concern to this Parliament because of decisions that have been made in those two areas. They are particularly of importance to Queensland senators because of the Iwasaki project and the fact that the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority has been given the responsibility of supervising one of our great national heritages. 
I say to the Minister that it is not good enough to say that we are caught with all these reports because we are rising a week earlier- not two weeks earlier, as he said. That is not good enough. I would not give an out to these departments. It is extraordinary that these departments are not preparing their reports throughout the whole year. Surely a department does not have to wait until the end of the year before it starts to prepare its report for the previous year. It seems to me that we may have to bring down some sort of regulation which will force departments to report to the Parliament before a certain date. I believe that some departments and authorities are escaping the scrutiny of this Parliament by bringing in their reports very late indeed. 
-That is another point that has been brought out before. Some of these reports have been for the previous year. 
-We have all complained about it time and time again. I am merely complaining to the dedicated at present. 
I cannot quite pick up the interjections this morning, but there seems to be general agreement about what I am saying. Perhaps we could look at the proposition that departments and authorities should report before a certain date. It is not good enough to leave it to the end of a session. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The Australian Labor Party decided this morning not to support the proposition. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  made it clear that the Party had taken a determined stand on oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef and had come out strongly against it. Its policy has been determined. It has not changed its attitude. The Party rests on that position and understands, of course, that a variety of eminent committees have investigated the possibility, the feasibility or the desirability of drilling on the Great Barrier Reef and have come out strongly against it. If  Senator Collard  's speech had been heard by members of the Caucus this morning it is quite possible that we would have changed our minds. It seems to me that perhaps those who support the proposition are correct in their concern. If that is the sort of case that has been put by people in responsible positions-  Senator Collard  holds a responsible position- then the threat to the Great Barrier Reef from mining interests which wish to exploit the area is real. 
I assure the Senate that various forces which are at work will prevent drilling within the precincts of the Great Barrier Reef because they take a far greater responsibility for the future of the reef than does  Senator Collard  and the interests which he supports. It seems to me astonishing that for many years we could go through a campaign in Queensland and decide on a ban on oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef, on a withdrawal of the oil explorations companies from their intention to drill and on the establishment of a royal commission. That royal commission came down with positive conclusions which were reinforced in the Senate and which led to the setting up of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and a consultative committee. It desired to protect the whole area of the Great Barrier Reef, to establish it as a national park and to protect it as part of the national heritage and, in fact, as part of the world heritage. Yet that sort of case is again being trotted out by members of the National Party in Queensland and by members of the National Country Party in this Parliament. 
We may consider that the proposition of  Senator Chipp  is timely. Nevertheless, I believe that any talk about oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef is idle. Any expenditure of money on research in this area is a waste because the people of Australia have clearly declared that they do not want oil drilling in the precincts of the Great Barrier Reef. Having made that determination, I would have thought that we would have proceeded quickly to the point of establishing the area as a great national marine park. There seems to be some sort of hesitation. It seems that the Government has pulled away from its resolve. The great question is why. Is it because of the influence of the National Party? Is it because of the interests that support the National Party? After hearing  Senator Collard  tonight I am beginning to believe that that is the case. Therefore I say to those members of the Government who have taken a principled stand on this matter in the past that they ought to be wary of what is occurring within the Party room. What is the intention of the parliamentary Executive? What is the intention of the Cabinet? Does the Cabinet intend to surrender the responsibility for the off-shore area from the low water mark for which this Parliament fought for so long? That responsibility was embodied in legislation which was challenged in the High Court. The High Court ruled in favour of the national Parliament. Now, by arrangement and by some trading off, the responsibility for the offshore areas, which include the Great Barrier Reef, may pass back to the Queensland Government and be at the mercy of one of the worst parliaments that one can imagine. It is supposedly a parliament run in the style of the Westminster system yet in operation it is a parliament controlled by an executive which is dominated by one man, and that one man has personal interests in this area which have been revealed in this Parliament before. 
I say to  Senator Rae  that evidence of those interests was starkly revealed by a young interviewer on a  Four Corners  program. The interviewer asked  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  about bis interests.  Mr BjelkePetersen  did not tell the truth on that program and the young interviewer revealed that very starkly.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  's interests in Queensland have changed very little since that time. I have never argued about his rights as an individual to have interests of that sort. I have only argued that he should not have those interests as Premier of a State and as a Cabinet Minister because it places him in an area of serious conflict of interests. 
I do not want to be diverted to the subject of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  I think the responsibility for this matter rests here in the Parliament. We have the legislation and we have the responsibility for it as a parliament. I think that there are sufficient people of goodwill to ensure that the Great Barrier Reef is protected. The concern that I have is that the Cabinet may be moving away from its firm resolution of the past. A question on this matter was asked of  Senator Missen  by, I think,  Senator Chipp. Senator Chipp  asked whether there was some shift in the Government's position concerning the operation of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act of 1974. I do not know whether  Senator Missen  gave a clear answer to that question. 
Let me ask that question anyway. If  Senator Missen  is going to answer  Senator Chipp  's question he can also answer my question because I am clear on what I want to ask even if I do not recall properly what  Senator Chipp  asked. I ask  Senator Missen:  Is there a secret sub-committee of the Cabinet existing at present which is reviewing the operation of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act of 1974? Is  Senator Missen  prepared to acknowledge the existence of that sub-committee and what are the implications of the existence of that sub-committee? 
-Senator Missen, if you are not aware of that sub-committee perhaps you are more misled than I am. The advantage that I have is that I have less trust in your Government than you have and I can understand that you, being a member of a Government party, would exercise some loyalty. But I would say that loyalty may mislead you in this regard. To my belief and if my information is correct, there is a subcommittee looking at this very Act and there is a sub-committee which possibly will recommend an amendment to the Act which will remove much of the protection that the environment needs and which it has received under this Act. It is a very important Act. As far as the Great Barrier Reef is concerned, it is essential that such an Act should prevail. 
If this Act and the requirements of it had been applied properly to the Iwasaki project, that Iwasaki project would not have got the goahead. If there is to be some move to exploit or to explore the oil possibilities of the Great Barrier Reef, perhaps this Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act will be amended retrospectively or in some way compromised to facilitiate that.  Senator Missen,  with his close contact with the powers of the Cabinet, may be able to elicit whether that is the proposal. 
-No I cannot tell him the members of that committee but I can tell him of the existence of that committee. However, I can speak of another committee which concerns me very much and whose operations are related to the future of the Great Barrier Reef, and that is a consultative committee. It seems to me astonishing that the Government has not as yet appointed the  chairman  of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. At present the  chairman  of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority is  chairman  only in an acting capacity. He is an ex-member of the Department of Defence. He is a person who, although he has sincerity and applies that sincerity, has not the expertise that is necessary to protect the future of the Great Barrier Reef and to understand that it is one vast and delicate ecosystem that needs to be protected. 
In order to take the correct positions to make the right decisions, and to interpret the advice that is given to the Authority, the  chairman  of that Authority ought to be a person of great scientific standing. I do not think that anyone would be prepared to deny that. Yet it seems that the Government has been unable to find someone suitable. In fact it recently amended the rules to make it easier to find someone suitable, but it still has not discovered a person suitable for the position. 
Let us move away from the Authority and take a look at the consultative committee. The consultative committee was a committee set up to represent the various interests that were concerned about the future of the Great Barrier Reef. I have spoken on this matter before. The positions on that consultative committee were taken up largely by representatives of departments, both State and Commonwealth, who were there merely to protect their own narrow interests. The environmentalists on that committee were in a minority. What worries me and what may add t» the concern of  Senator Chipp  is that the representative of the Department of National Development is the person on that committee who is blatantly pressing for oil exploration on the Great Barrier Reef, research or no research. When there is an important person on that consultative committee representing the Department of National Development and that person is leading a move for oil exploration on the Great Barrier Reef, of course one must express concern. 
-He is the representative of the Department of National Development. I am just not quite certain of his name but that can be ascertained quickly. I have given his position but I am not going to give his name. He is a member of the consultative committee and my information is that he leads a fairly determined lobby for oil and mineral exploration on the Great Barrier Reef. If I am wrong and if I need to be corrected, I will accept that correction. I make the declaration that the Department of National Development, through its representative on the consultative committee, is pressing for immediate exploitation of the Great Barrier Reef and that Department is supporting the search for oil on the Great Barrier Reef. 
There are alternative sources of oil that have not been fully exploited and we ought to investigate those first. We ought to push our energies and our funding behind those projects and leave the Great Barrier Reef alone. We ought not to fall into the trap of being pressured by increased oil prices and petrol prices to forsake a position that has been carefully taken and so well supported; that is, the protection of the whole of the Great Barrier Reef and its precincts from oil drilling and oil exploration. It is understood that we cannot just stop at that point; the reef is under threat from a variety of directions. But let us not diminish our argument by putting forward the case that because there are other threats to the Great Barrier Reef we should add yet another. The threat that has been proposed by those who support oil drilling on the reef would be major and we should dispose of it here without further debate and without further referring it to a select committee. 
I know that the intentions of the Australian Democrats are honest but I believe that we have investigated the matter and already come to a conclusion. The Australian Labor Party is firmly against oil drilling being permitted on the Great  Barrier Reef. We believe that further investigation may lead to the trotting out of a whole series of submissions such as those we heard from  Senator Collard  tonight, and perhaps some others also. We would again engage in an investigation. We would set in train again massive lobbying and, who knows, may by error allow to intrude some decision or recommendation which may prejudice the protection of the Great Barrier Reef. I must admit that my last argument does not go down particularly well; perhaps I could word it better. Perhaps I ought not to be opposing further inquiry. It could be argued that inquiry, no matter how often repeated, serves the best interests of the cause that one is supporting; but I believe that in this case it is unnecessary. 
I think that it would be sufficient to bring before this House an urgency motion which would receive the unanimous support of the Senate and would reinforce previous decisions of the Senate against drilling for oil on the Great Barrier Reef. If we slip this proposition to a standing committee, that committee may already be overloaded with work. Standing committees are able to embark upon short-term inquiries. If a special inquiry is necessary a select committee is the best vehicle to use; but we have already had our select committees and they have come down with recommendations. Circumstances have not changed. The opinion of the Australian people is that the Barrier Reef should be protected. It is not a matter of only 5 1 per cent being in favour of adopting that course. We took opinion polls back in 1969 and 1970 and were coming up with a 95 per cent vote against oil drilling being permitted on the Great Barrier Reef. I do not think that we should allow companies to go into the Barrier Reef in a speculative way, to carry out in-depth exploration for oil. The risks are far too great, and are unnecessary. Also the opinion of the people has already been well expressed. 
If I might say so, the proposition that  Senator Mason  is about to put to this House concerning citizen-initiated referenda, and which he so strongly supports, should lead him to the conclusion that what he is now suggesting is not necessary because we have already had one of those referendums. It was not a formal referendum but an opinion poll which was carried out in Queensland, and almost 95 per cent of participants voted against oil drilling being permitted in the Great Barrier Reef area. Perhaps we should rest on the people's opinion. The Australian Labor Party is 'agin it'. It reaffirms its position. It does not need a further inquiry. 
I was absent last week when the Robinson affair blew up; I was otherwise diverted. Nevertheless, I am sufficiently surprised to ask a question of the Leader of the Government. When may we expect to receive confirmation and to be formally told that  Mr Eric  Robinson resigned and, further, that he has been reappointed? Why is it that the Leader of the Government has made no announcement to this Senate and so given us an opportunity to debate the matter? I remind the Minister that it is a customary practice for the Prime Minister to give reasons for the resignation and reappointment of Ministers. He did that on the occasion of the reappointment of  Mr Lynch  and- I think quite unfairly- at the time of the dismissal of  Senator Withers.  My direct question is: Why has the Prime Minister not given a statement to Parliament concerning the resignation and reappointment of the Minister for Finance? I am also asking directly: When may we expect a statement on the issue from the Prime Minister? We have heard the remarks that  Mr Eric  Robinson has had to make. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate not to get excited over the matter. 
I think it is necessary to put on record the background to the Bill. The Bill's major amendments affect the establishment of the Institute of Family Studies which was provided for in the original Family Law Act at the time of its passage. However, as the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and other speakers have pointed out, the relevant provisions were found to be inadequate when a director was to be appointed. I believe the amendment has the thrust to correct that situation. It is not necessary for me to speak at great length on this matter. It would be evident if I spoke for much longer that I know very little about the Bill itself. Having in mind the program that the Senate must meet and for the sake of the exercise, I propose to seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  so as to make the matter clearer than perhaps it is at the moment the short digest of the Bill which has been prepared by the Law and Government Group of the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. I know it will add somewhat to the record. Some may deem it unnecessary since most members of this Parliament would have this digest. Nevertheless, I think it should be in  Hansard  for the benefit of those who seek to become familiar with the intention of the Government. With those few words, I rest my case. I seek leave to incorporate the digest in  Hansard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? 
-Speaking to that point, I think it rather extraordinary that the AttorneyGeneral should object - 
-The Attorney-General did object. He rose to his feet and said he had not seen the document. I described the document carefully. Surely he would accept the document as a valid one. I know I did not pay him the courtesy of showing it to him. I really did not have time. He may have noticed that I came into the chamber rather suddenly and picked up these papers before me. If it is necessary to show these papers to the Attorney-General, I shall do so. Perhaps with the concurrence of the AttorneyGeneral I will be able to incorporate this short digest in  Hansard!  I seek leave to do so. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Georges,  you have sought leave and the Attorney-General has indicated that he would like to see the document. 
I have a few words to say now that I did not have to say before. I hand the document to the Attorney-General. The Attorney-General made a few terse remarks to the effect that if we were to follow the precedent which I have established we may be able to do away with second reading speeches. He also said that perhaps the Legislative Research Service of the Library could do a better job than we can do in a second reading debate. That may be the case. If the Attorney-General were to put that proposition to the Senate we could debate it and perhaps agree to it and thereby shorten our sitting hours. Perhaps we could then spend more time in our electorates. Because of the complicated nature of this Bill, I believe that this digest would be of some use in the record. Surely it does not need the perusal that the Attorney-General is giving it at present, unless he wishes to question the work that the Legislative Research Service has done on the matter. 
I believe that the Legislative Research Service is a highly efficient and well qualified body. If the Attorney-General were to accept the motive behind doing what I am doing he would approve with alacrity. What is the present position? Is it to be incorporated or is it not? 
-Thank you. If I had read it without saying what it was would the AttorneyGeneral have noticed any difference? Perhaps he would have guessed it knowing that I know fairly little about this matter. Perhaps he would have been bemused by my competence and expertise. We have a problem today which in some way has been complicated by the transport system. We have had to make certain that people from faraway places can get home. That has meant that honourable senators have had to put up with me for a short time. Honourable senators ought to be grateful for it and not critical. Besides, I thought the device I used was a rather clever one. Please admit it and let us get on to the next business. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

PARLIAMENT OF AUSTRALIA DEPARTMENT OF THE PARLIAMENTARY LIBRARY 
Family Law Amendment Bill 1978 
Date Introduced: 7 November 1978 House: Senate 
Presented by: Hon. P. D. Durack, Attorney-General Short Digest of Bill 
Purpose 
To amend the Family Law Act in a number of respects, notably by establishing the Institute of Family Studies. 
Background 
The Bill's major amendments affect the establishment of the Institute of Family Studies which was provided for in the original Family Law Act at the time of its passage. However, as the Attorney-General points out in his Second Reading Speech, the relevant provisions were found to be inadequate when a Director was to be appointed. Proposed Part XIV A of the Act, which is inserted by clause 1 8 of the Bill, re-enacts with the necessary amplification the substantive provisions of s.l 16 of the Act thereby retaining the same functions and basic structure for the Institute as originally provided. 
The rest of the amendments are of a technical nature and do not substantially alter the spirit of the Family Law Act. Principal among these other amendments are those affecting counselling. The Bill seeks to extend the range of circumstances in which a court can order the panics to confer with a counsellor or order a counsellor to report to it, on the welfare of the children of the marriage. There are also formal amendments to establish more clearly the separate identity of court counsellors from officers of State and Territory welfare departments. 
Main Provisions 
Section 116 of the Act, which establishes the Institute of Family Studies, is repealed (clause 19) and new provisions substituted by clause 1 8. This provides for the establishment of the Institute with the same functions as originally provided (proposed s. 1 14b) and the same basic structure except that there is to be a Board of Management of the Institute as a means of distinguishing between the Institute meaning the governing body and the Institute meaning the Director, members and staff as a whole. The Board is charged with the general direction of the Institute (proposed s.114d). Proposed sections 1 14e to 1 14M contain standard provisions dealing with such matters as the term of office of members, their remuneration and allowances, resignation, termination of their appointments, the holding of meetings and appointment of staff. 
Section 62 is amended to extend the circumstances in which a court can order the parties to confer with a counsellor or can order a counsellor to report to it on the welfare of the children of the marriage. This can now be done whenever the welfare of a child under 1 8 is relevant (clause 9). 
Clause 1 1 widens the power of a court to issue a warrant expressed to apply to any vehicle, vessel, aircraft, premises or place where there is reasonable cause to believe that a child the subject of a custody order may be found. This overcomes a problem which anses at present because warrants must specify a particular vehicle, aircraft, premises et cetera. 
Clause 17 will remove doubts which existed about whether it was possibe by regulation to allow garnishee of wages paid by the Commonwealth, by making specific provision on this question in the Act. 
In line with a recommendation of the Family Law Council, the Bill extends slightly the authority of courts to set aside or discharge property settlement or maintenance orders under the Act. At the moment the Act limits the court's powers to circumstances where the order was obtained by fraud, by duress, by the giving of false evidence or by the suppression of evidence. This is extended to include any other circumstance where there has been a miscarriage of justice (clause 12). 
Law &amp; Government Group LEGISLATIVE RESEARCH SERVICE 13 November 1978 
-For some reason no one had the courtesy of letting me know that I was to speak on the two previous reports. I placed those reports on the notice paper and should have spoken on them. I cannot speak on them now; they are matters of past record. Therefore I shall speak on this report. The report of the Standing Committee on Social Welfare on ethics in wine promotion is presently being debated in the Senate. I should have thought that it would have been a matter of considerable interest to the Senate, particularly to  Senator Davidson.  If I recall correctly he is strictly opposed to wine and similar commodities. I would have thought that he would have entered into the debate tonight. Instead he is on this side of the House engaged in conversation on another matter. I wonder whether I can inspire him to enter this debate and give us his well thought out and considered opinion on the matter of ethnics in wine promotion. 
I am sorry. I am obsessed by the word 'ethnic'. It is something I am reminded of from time to time as  Senator Lajovic  would appreciate. When I look at the letters 'eth' I see the letter 'n' following them. Nevertheless, the point I was making is valid. Perhaps  Senator Davidson  will be prepared to give us his considered- 1 used that word before but I repeat it- opinion on the subject. It seems to me that the purpose of this report was to highlight the fact that in the promotion of wine there has been a lack of understanding. The utmost restraint should be exercised. Another person from the Government side whom I would have thought would have been drawn into this debate is  Senator Walters. Senator Walters  had quite a lot to say on the drug problem in Australia. 
-Yes. She said that on 30 September last year she and I reached a point of agreement. That seemed to be some sort of highlight in her life. There seemed to be a momentary understanding on our part. During the taking of evidence by the Standing Committee in its inquiry into the drug problem in Australia she read the minority report of a previous investigation. 
-Nevertheless, when we are talking about wine we are talking about drugs. When we are talking about drugs we can refer to attitudes taken by other honourable senators in this place. My memory stretches back at least half an hour to what  Senator Walters  had to say. She said that drug abuse in this country is a serious problem. She spoke of the need to restrict the promotion of drugs, especially drugs of addiction, which include alcohol. Alcohol is a general term which covers wine and the ethics of wine promotion. Drug abuse seems to me to tie in sufficiently with this subject to allow me to refer to what  Senator Walters  said earlier.  Senator Walters  said that the promotion of drugs of addiction should not be encouraged. What this report says is that the ethical standard of wine promotion in particular, is seriously-- 
-At risk? No, it is the subject of considerable criticism. For that reason it was necessary for  Senator Melzer  to take this matter in hand and to place it on the Notice Paper so that it could be debated. It should be debated. The reason I am on my feet is that perhaps there is some unspoken criticism or some reflection on the fact that I was not here when the two previous items were dealt with. I do not want to disappoint anyone. I cannot speak about woodchips now and I also missed out on the debate on the Australian Trade Commissioner Service. 
Sometimes, senator, it is necessary for me to take a position in this place in order to assist the Government to fulfil its program. I am beginning to believe that is a rather false position for me to be taking. I am now reaching the position- I have been encouraged by  Senator Cavanagh-  where I think that I should not be in any way of any assistance to the Government. It is not my role as Opposition Whip-  Senator Cavanagh  is right about this- to assist the Government to maintain its program in this place. I should be sitting back and allowing the Government to get into an administrative mess, in fact a legislative mess. Whilst I am on my feet I apologise to  Senator Cavanagh  for being missing for the debate on the previous two matters. I also apologise to him for getting to my feet at odd times in order to bring about some sort of continuity in this place. Having made that clear, let me apologise also for the sudden call to attendance in this place. I do not think I have made it clear to everyone concerned that because of a sudden and unexpected crisis, which may have stranded many of us - 
I know that one of my few achievements in this place- I will always go down in the records for this achievement- is that I was responsible for the installation of the flashing lights - 
In the toilets. I was not going to use that term. It resulted from a speech I made during the debate on the adjournment one night. I was not aware that in some way I was confusing the program but I am told that I am confusing it. 
-Perhaps there should be a telephone to the toilets- a hot line. I have said sufficient. I do not see why I should take up the time of the Senate. If the Government had been reasonable- I thought it would have been reasonable- it would have accepted the proposition that was put to it earlier: That because of some difficulties, which may strand many honourable senators in this place, the Senate should adjourn at 6 o'clock. It may have seemed as though we were succumbing to some pressure from outside influences to bring this place to a halt. The reality is that because of some industrial dispute many honourable senators may be stranded in this place for several days. Because of that situation, the Whips came to an understanding that we should rise; that we should allow honourable senators to go to their duties in their electorates and not be stranded in Canberra. For some reason or other, the Executive Government decided that that was not the thing to do. Here we are tonight, with diminished numbers, endeavouring to proceed with this debate and with me on my feet filling in time unnecessarily. 
Yes. I have been informed that it is no longer necessary for me to speak and that others now wish to take up the debate. For that reason I have nothing further to say. 
I did not want to hear hear, hear! ', from the other side of the chamber. I take this opportunity to give a lesson to the Government over this matter. If the Government seeks co-operation from this side it will only obtain it on reasonable terms. If it is believed by honourable senators on this side of the chamber that I am coming to an unreasonable arrangement with the Government then that is a matter for discussion outside the chamber, not inside the chamber. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The paper being discussed is 'The Geo-political Situation: A Pattern of Instability'. It makes a fine title. It would made a fine title for a bookperhaps a science fiction book or a book of fantasy. It seems to me an odd title for a very serious situation- a pattern of instability, uncertainty, insecurity and fear. Perhaps fear is at the back of the minds of all of us when we debate this foreign policy statement. It is fear concerning what is happening in the world today; a fear that we may have reached a position where just an error on the part of one nation may lead us into a conflict from which none of us can survive. On the top of my papers is an article headed 'Trident Horror Weapon'. The article states: 
The Trident is one of the latest in an arsenal of horror weapons. This submarine, built at a cost of $2 billion, is armed with 24 missiles each containing 17 independent warheards 
This means that each Trident submarine will be able to destroy 408 targets, each with a nuclear blast about five times more powerful than the bomb dropped on Hiroshima. 
A Trident submarine commander would be the third most poweful man in the world, next to the US and the Soviet Presidents. He would control a destructive force greater than that of Britain, Italy, Spain, Brazil, Argentina, West Germany, Japan, the Philippines, India and Pakistan put together. 
Thirteen Trident submarines will be deployed in the Pacific Ocean. As a  National Times  article March 6-11,1978, stated: Australia is to play a much more significant role in the strategic weapons plan of the United States, the Soviet Union and China. This will place Australia in the front line of any nuclear exchange between the US and either the Soviet Union or China . . . 
When I speak of fear I speak of that situation, because it is exactly the situation in which we are all placed. When those on the Government side attack the Soviet Union, perhaps they can give some credit to the Soviets because in the crisis which confronted them and us they showed the utmost restraint in the face of great provocation. This evening I learnt of one way to get the Government members into their seats in the Senate. I had earlier in the day tried calling a quorum and that succeeded for about five minutes. It took a Chinese delegation in the President's gallery tonight to bring them all in. 
-Not all; perhaps I do the honourable senator an injustice. I would say a considerable number of the honourable senator's colleagues did come into the Senate because they must have been informed that this Chinese delegation would be here. It seemed to me to be the height of hypocrisy for Government members to show now so much respect for a delegation from China when some six years ago they were the greatest spokesmen against China and made statements about the downward thrust of communism, with the force behind that downward thrust being China. When one considers some of those remarks one can appreciate their hypocrisy tonight in coming in to honour such a delegation. When I interrupted some remarks being made by the Acting  Deputy President  and said, 'And remind them of Vietnam', they chided me for so doing. 
Let us be straight and honest about it. If, in the past, we criticised the United States for its position in Indo-China, then surely we should be criticising today the position that China takes against Vietnam. That is clearly the attitude that I take. Those criticisms which I levelled against the United States in adjournment debates early in the morning, I level now against China. A visiting delegation does not inhibit me in any way, especially when the Leader of that delegation made some very caustic and undiplomatic remarks about the Soviet Union at a national Press conference today. I would have thought that the Chinese people would remember that their philosophy is akin to the philosophy of the USSR and it does them little credit to make a continuous attack on the Soviet Union. 
Let me speak of fear, and the fear of the Soviet people. I spoke of my own fear- I do not doubt the fear of other Australians- at being a prime target in a nuclear strategy, because if we engage in a nuclear war that war will take place in a selective way with the major powers picking off odd targets in order to show their determination to carry it through. Australia will be one of those expendable targets because it has upon its soil at the present time a number of United States bases which are aimed at monitoring the strength of the USSR and of the People's Republic of China. In the event of any attack that takes place, Australia will be one of the first to go. That is why I am fearful, and that is why other people are fearful. 
Let me speak of the fear that I felt transmitted to me by people in the Soviet Union when I was there some time ago. They are paranoic in their fear of an encirclement of their nation, of their people, by the United States of America, by the People's Republic of China and all the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation forces. Their reaction, of course, is to engage in an arms race to match the arms race against them. Now we are poised in a state of terror. It seems to me that the action of the Chinese in invading Vietnam was to put that balance in danger, and again I commend the Soviet Union for its restraint in the face of the action of the Chinese against the Vietnamese people. 
When we speak of instability, insecurity and fear, we must think of the part we play in creating the terrible insecurity that exists in the minds of the Soviet people. This instability is the same instability as is felt over the whole continent of Africa, from the north to the very south, where it has now become the practice for nations to cross borders to punish and teach a lesson. Just as the Israelites moved across the border into Lebanon to punish and to kill, the Chinese have now moved across their border to punish and to kill. What sort of lesson is that that we are permitting? It is a lesson which means that many die on both sides. We are seen to be, and we are, incapable of preventing it, and if we are incapable of preventing it, then of course we reinforce this instability, insecurity and fear. 
I could speak of the crisis situations which exist between nations and from which some peoplethe industrialists, the armament makers and armament suppliers- benefit. The crisis between Greece and Turkey is reminiscent of the 1920s, when the Greeks were encouraged to go into Asia Minor and became embroiled in a war with Turkey in order to use up the vast surplus of armaments which existed after the First World War. At present those two nations, living in fear of one another in a situation of instability and insecurity, spend 60 per cent of their budget on arms. Yet their people to a large extent suffer poverty. The crisis has been created by external forces; yet the people live in a situation of poverty, insecurity and fear. Other nations which have been mentioned- Ethiopia, Eritrea, other African nations and nations of South America and South East Asia- are in the same state of insecurity, instability and fear. 
Recently Iran had a change of government by way of revolution. This matter was suitably dealt with by  Senator Wheeldon.  One thing that emerged from that revolution was the cancellation of armament contracts with United States, France and the United Kingdom worth billions of dollars. Iran had been purchasing tanks 1,000 at a time. In contrast, Australia purchases the same tanks 50 at a time and we congratulate ourselves. One can understand the great conspiracy that went on in the Middle East with the escalating cost of oil. Fuel sales poured dollars into the Middle East but these dollars were not spent to improve the lot of the ordinary people but to purchase millions of dollars worth of arms. As a result the industrialists and the armament makers in the United States, France and the United Kingdom benefited greatly. The Western democracies are responsible for creating the tremendous instability and insecurity in the Middle East. 
I often wonder whether man's destiny on earth is to destroy the earth and make the world a barren planet, to match the other planets of the universe. Perhaps our destiny is just that. Whereas 100 years ago that seemed to be something in the dim, distant future, now it seems to be something that will be possible within our time, or within the time of those of us who may have 1 0, 20 or 30 years left. Instability is very much the word. 
Let me say a word now about Vietnam. I think the Vietnamese nation has been a nation much maligned in this place. Remember that the Vietnamese people fought the French to free themselves from the colonial bond of the French and the exploitation of the French landlords. They fought the French and defeated them. They fought the Japanese and defeated them. They were betrayed by the British in the agreements that were made, and they fought again- this time the French again and subsequently the full forces of the United States. Perhaps I should amend that, because the United States could not bring to bear the massive armaments it had at its disposal. Nevertheless, it put into that struggle every sophisticated weapon that could be used in land warfare short of nuclear warfare. It put into the field half a million men and lost many thousand of them, and it was defeated. 
Having defeated the United States, the Vietnamese people set themselves a program of reunification and economic recovery.  Senator Gietzelt  has already explained how that was frustrated by the United States, by countries such as Australia supporting the United States, and by the Chinese. The Chinese said that they did not wish Vietnam to continue to be a part of the Soviet sphere of influence. They then engaged in a series of actions which in fact forced Vietnam completely into the area of Soviet influence. The Chinese did not want Vietnam to engage in the last assault upon Saigon. They wanted the United States influence to remain in that area as a counterbalance to Soviet influence. That was the Chinese intention. Their advice to Vietnam was to not carry out that last assault. On the other hand the Soviet Union did not believe that the Vietnamese could succeed and, as is now history, the United States folded before that last assault and the Vietnamese were victorious. 
Whether or not we agree with the system of government in Vietnam we should recongise that it developed because of a lack of understanding by the Western democracies of the need and the desire of the Vietnamese people for national independence and freedom from a colonial yoke. As has continually been our attitude to fights for independence or struggles for independence by minor nations, we took the side of the exploiters and the ruling class and did not understand the innate feeling and desire for national independence of the people concerned. We thrust them into other philosophies, and that is what we did to Vietnam. Make no bones about it! The Vietnamese chose the only way they could see possible to develop their nation's independence and to develop as one people, not a split people. We partitioned country after country after country. We were determined to partition Vietnam, but we failed in Vietnam. 
The Chinese persisted in the attempt to frustrate Vietnam's independence and national sovereignty. They supported the Kampuchean or Cambodian regime. One of the conditions of the support for Cambodia- if I can use that term which we more properly understand- was that Cambodia would maintain pressure on the Vietnamese border, that it would engage Vietnam and divert it from its struggle for economic recovery. For  2V4  years the Cambodian Government was responsible for incursions into Vietnamese territory. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself has said, the Cambodian Government became one of the most oppressive governments known to the history of man. It was guilty of the genocide of its own kind. It destroyed its own people. It executed its opponents, resulting in the development of areas of insurrection. But it also was responsible for incursions into Vietnamese territory. We are told that after  2'A  years of patience Vietnam crossed the border to protect its own border, because it supported the insurrection in Cambodia. This was an invasion, and Vietnam deserved a lesson which China proceeded to teach it. 
I was in Hanoi seven months ago and when I returned I said that the situation in Vietnam was serious; that there were 15 Chinese divisions massed on the northern border in order to reduce the pressure on Cambodia; that Vietnamese divisions were going north; and that China had engaged in a psychological campaign against the Vietnamese. The Chinese spread rumours throughout the northern provinces of Vietnam, amongst the Vietnamese of Chinese descent, that there would be war between Vietnam and Cambodia; that if that happened they would be supporting Cambodia and that people of Chinese descent would be persecuted. The rumour went further and said: 'If we do come in on the side of Cambodia and you are still in Vietnam, you will be considered traitors'. The People's Republic of China suddenly withdrew aid from 500 projects in Vietnam. It did to the Vietnamese people what it accused the Soviet Union of doing to itself, which is at the basis of the conflict between the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union. I refer to the sudden withdrawal of aid by the Soviet Union from China at a crucial time in China's development. China did to Vietnam exactly what it accused the Soviet Union of doing to itself. 
When, as part of the reunification and the change in the nature of Vietnamese society, the Vietnamese Government decided to change the currency it gave the Vietnamese in the south 48 hours in which to convert their currency and said that they would be allowed only $500 in currency for their own use and that all other moneys were to be invested in state enterprises. This caused confusion in the market place of Saigon, now called Ho Chi Minh City. There was a rush to convert to portables, a rush to convert money into valuables. Many of the merchant class succeeded. Many of this merchant class in the South were Chinese who had fled from the revolution in China. Some went to Taiwan while others went to Indo-China. They were caught up in this change of currency and in the change in the nature of society which was being imposed upon them. The claim by China that Chinese nationals were being persecuted arose from this incident and it seems to me peculiar that China should accuse Vietnam of something which it did itself after the revolution. It is surprising to me that China should come to the defence of Chinese merchants in Ho Chi Minh City who were refugees from the regime in China and who subsequently, when they left Vietnam, went not back to China but to France and, as most of them did, to Taiwan. 
They were free to go. On the Air France jumbo jet on which I left Ho Chi Minh City, three sections were reserved for refugees who were free to go. When we got to Bangkok some of the refugees remained on board while others transferred to another plane whose destination was Taiwan. I put it to honourable senators that they were free to go. When the ships that came from China to pick up refugees anchored outside Haiphong, the only condition that the Vietnamese people put on the refugees leaving was that it should be done in the normal way; that lists should be given to the Vietnamese authorities of people wishing to go; that the Chinese ships could take only three days for the whole of the operation; and that they should enter only two pons, Haiphong and Ho Chi Minh City. Yet the Chinese refused those conditions. In fact it was pan of the confrontation, pan of the propaganda, pan of the psychological campaign against the Vietnamese people. 
My belief is that China manufactured a case against Vietnam in order to invade Vietnam and to teach it a lesson because it felt that Vietnam was very much a pan of the Soviet system and part of the Soviet sphere of influence. It was afraid that the Soviet Union would obtain bases in Vietnam. It did not properly understand the Vietnamese people who, as  Senator Gietzelt  explained, tried their best to disengage from dependence on the Soviet Union and sought an independent position. If the United States had assisted in reconstruction and if Australia had supported it in doing so, Vietnam would possibly have reached an independent position, but it was not allowed to do this. Because it was not allowed by China to do this, China subsequently was able to use this to justify its invasion. 
What is the result? The result is that many thousands of Chinese and Vietnamese people have been killed in an empty exercise. The world was brought to the brink of an international disaster. As I have described before, had the Soviet Union not used restraint, had the Soviet Union crossed the northern Chinese border in order to relieve the pressure on Vietnam, of course we would have been engaged in a war of great magnitude. It would have been difficult not to become involved following the chain reaction that would have taken place. 
The Australian Government has evidenced by its reception of the Chinese delegation here tonight and the subservience it is now showing to China that it is taking part in a dangerous exercise. I believe that the United States also is engaged in the same dangerous exercise of encouraging China and is taking sides against the Soviet Union. I believe that is a dangerous policy. I believe it was quite wrong of the Australian Government to have received the delegation from China at a time when China was engaged in an act of aggression, irrespective of how the Australian Government may have viewed the Vietnamese incursion into Cambodia. 
China is a major nation, one of the four world powers. It is engaged in an act of aggression against a small country, yet Australia has given no indication of any criticism of that position. For some reason we now seem to think it is to our advantage that China is strongly opposed to the Soviet Union, as a result of which we believe we may be able to engage in some further trade negotiations with China. Because we have this belief we take a very short-sighted position and support China. 
I have spoken at length on my belief that the Chinese position is insupportable, inexcusable, leads to further ^stability, leads to further insecurity and certainly adds to fear. 
I thank  Senator Watson  for his speech. It is one that would have been well in line with Australian Labor Party policy at the last election. We made an error, however, in endeavouring to trade off this tax instead of some other tax allowance. Nevertheless, I think many people have begun to realise the inequity of payroll tax which is a tax upon the wages of employees. It is a tax upon business irrespective of profitability and it weighs very heavily in these days of economic recession on all businesses. Of course, the effect of the tax is more apparent on smaller businesses. 

 Senator Watson put forward a well presented and well documented case. I do not need to repeat his comments. I merely support them. This legislation is concerned, of course, with the Australian Capital Territory. The remarks made by  Senator Watson  are pertinent to the position in the Australian Capital Territory because a sort of double recession is taking effect in the Territory. The Australian Capital Territory is not only feeling the impact of the general recession that is being experienced throughout the country but also it is suffering from the impact of the federalism policy of the present Government. I am astonished that more protests have not come from residents of Canberra. 

 Senator Ryan documented a case tonight which I heard for the first time. Maybe I am not here often enough. Maybe I do not read the newspapers. Maybe  Senator Knight  has not said sufficient about this matter. All I can say is that the situation in Canberra must be desperate. One of the risks that one runs by destroying a growth factor in any area is that one may put that area beyond the point of recovery. I hope that that has not happened to the Australian Capital Territory. 
The legislation which seeks to increase the exemption from payroll tax will help in a small way: But surely it does not go far enough in terms of assisting businesses in the Australian Capital Territory. This legislation perhaps gives us the opportunity to put the case against payroll tax. I think  Senator Watson  mentioned that Queensland had the lowest, or maybe the lowest, payroll tax rate in Australia. That was not the position so very long ago when payroll tax in Queensland was levied at 5 percent. The amount had to be found. Businesses which paid this tax were put under the closest of scrutiny. Associated companies which had a separate identity were grouped together. As a result these companies had to pay considerably increased rates of payroll tax and this placed a very excessive burden upon their ability to operate. 
Let me put it to the Senate that the removal of this tax would benefit not only the employer but also the wage earner. The ability of the employer to provide his employees with better conditions is inhibited by this tax of 5 per cent. The tax also inhibits an employer's ability to provide in some cases over award payments. It also inhibits an employer's ability to provide extra overtime or perhaps to provide special leave conditions. An employer's ability to provide these benefits is limited by the 5 per cent tax he has to pay on wages. I think  Senator Watson  mentioned that the tax was the equivalent of the wages of the twenty-first employee of a company. Such a person could not be employed because the company had to pay this tax. As a result there is an increased resistance on the part of employers to put on extra staff if their employing of extra staff puts them above the exemption level. 

 Senator Watson pointed out that the tax was imposed for a worthwhile purpose. But certainly that purpose has now been forgotten. Whichever way one looks at it, this tax is a means by which 
State governments accumulate revenue. It is an iniquitous tax. It is a regressive tax. It is, I believe- again I quote the previous  speaker-  an inflationary tax. I would have thought that by now it would have been accepted as such and removed. The Government could have taken the lead and removed the tax altogether in the Australian Capital Territory especially in view of the depressed conditions in the Territory. Although I commend the legislation which seeks to increase the exemption from payroll tax, I go as far as  Senator Watson  has gone tonight and press for its complete removal. 
I second the motion and take the opportunity to say something on the matter. The motion states: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should take urgent action on matters arising out of the 1977 Report by the Community Relations Office relating to 'Discrimination against Aborigines and Islanders in North Queensland. 
In the past hour  Senator Keeffe  has given an outline of the misery suffered by and the discrimination exercised against Aborigines in 
Queensland. He has added to the report of the Commissioner for Community Relations by outlining incidents which can only be described as horrific. Nevertheless, they are real. Unfortunately, many of the incidents that he described can be reinforced by incidents of which I know. However, I do not seek to draw upon my experience; I shall merely draw upon the contents of the reports prepared by the Commissioner for Community Relations. 

 Senator Keeffe has dealt with the Commissioner's 1977 report. We have before us also a report which flows from that report. I shall deal with them together,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  in case you question whether I am speaking on the subject before the Senate. I connect with the 1977 report the third annual report of the Commissioner for Community Relations- the 1978 report which deals with, among other matters, discrimination against Aborigines in Queensland. It deals with complaints of racial discrimination, discrimination in Queensland, racial discrimination at Ceduna and its aftermath, discrimination and the police, discrimination in the courts, discrimination in employment, discrimination in local government, discrimination in Aboriginal housing, discrimination in health services, discrimination in education, discrimination in school text books, discrimination in the media, discrimination in hotels, and so it goes on to chapter 19, dealing with the dissemination of racial hatred and many other important matters, to which I am attracted. 
We ought to commend the Commissioner for Community Relations for the reports which he has prepared- the 1 977 report to which  Senator Keeffe  alluded and the 1978 report to which I refer. If we are to do anything at all about racial discrimination, we need to have the problem identified. The Commissioner for Community Relations in these two reports has identified the problem. In identifying the problem he has investigated and documented evidence of racial discrimination. We cannot ignore that documented evidence. It will be necessary for us to keep those reports close to us because, to a certain extent, those of us who live a more urban life have been insulated against evidence of racial discrimination in Australia. Discrimination is lost in the activity of the great cities and their suburbs. It is evident in the provincial areas- in the small provincial towns and the isolated places. This report reminds us of the problem in such a way that it will be necessary for us to do something about it. The Commissioner for Community Relations has justified the existence of his Commission. 
I refer to discrimination in Queensland- to the problem and to the conclusion which must be drawn. At page 21 of the report the Commissioner, having referred to some 20 or 2 1 cases of racial discrimination in Queensland, in particular discrimination against Aborigines, makes this point: 
In the light of all the above allegations of racial discrimination on the part of the Queensland Government, I would draw attention to the fundamental freedoms and human rights which Australia guarantees to its citizens. These are enumerated in many international documents, but those most pertinent to my operations are listed in Article 5 of the International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination. These are incorporated in  section  9 of the  Racial Discrimination Act  1975. The International Convention is printed as a schedule to that Act. 
Article 5 lists the following fundamental freedoms and human rights: 
I find it extraordinary that the Commissioner should see that it is necessary for him to quote Article 5 of the International Convention- that he should need to remind us of it, in the light of what is happening in Queensland. He continued: 
In compliance with the fundamental obligations laid down in article 2 of this Convention, States Parties undertake to prohibit and to eliminate racial discrimination in all its forms and to guarantee the right of everyone, without distinction as to race, colour, or national or ethnic origin, to equality before the law, notably in the enjoyment of the following rights: 
When one reads the phrase 'equality before the law' one knows that in Queensland that does not prevail for the Aboriginal people. My experience is that they are not equal before the law. My experience is that they are not equal in the application of the law. I think that we should quickly pass legislation concerning the laws of evidence. I think that we have reached the second reading stage with a Bill which in our Territories will protect the rights of individuals at the point of arrest and during the period for which they are apprehended until they reach the court. It will protect individuals against arbitrary and forceful arrests. It will preserve the dignity of individuals at the point of arrest, during the transitional period before they reach the court and subsequent to that. 
Yes, the Criminal Investigation Bill. 
-Is that so? 
I am glad  Senator Missen  reminded me of that. I was going to ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  who is in the chamber tonight, what was the position with this Bill because my experience in Queensland seems to lend support to my wishing to have such legislation on the Queensland statutes. At least if we introduced legislation applicable to those areas for which we are responsible, it might set an example for the Queensland Government and encourage it to introduce similar legislation. 
It migh be a pious hope, but I am not a person who expects sudden change. I do not live within my own lifetime; I look forward in the hope that some future generation might benefit from effort made and initiative taken in this place. I know that we grind ahead very slowly here. Nevertheless, some very small initiatives taken in my time in this place have advanced the lot of the ordinary individual. I do not doubt that  Senator Durack  will add to the statutes some enlightened legislation which may influence the Queensland Government. In Queensland we have fought for the rights of individuals and minority groups. The black people in Queensland are very much in the minority. It seems to me that we are not going to gain the legislation or the improvements that we require in Queensland. However, strangely enough, other States, because of what is happening in Queensland, will set about improving their own legislation. 
I seem to have drifted away from the point. All I am saying is that Aboriginal people in particular are not equal before the law. They are not equal in the application of the law.  Senator Keeffe  has given many examples in which Aboriginal people have been misused by the authorities. They have been traditionally misused. Subsequently they are imprisoned and in their very imprisonment they suffer differently. The Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, which showed so much promise and which was funded perhaps in the eyes of some far too generously, was gradually bringing equality to Aboriginal people before the law. 
It seems to me that I should move on. Article 5 deals with fundamental freedoms and human rights. If I applied that Article to the Queensland situation and to the Aboriginal people, evidence in every area would show that the Aboriginal people are discriminated against. The Commissioner for Community Relations has seen fit to print that very important covenant into his report. The Commissioner goes on to say: 
It is frequently contended in matters brought to my office that fundamental freedoms and human rights of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in the State of Queensland are limited or restricted or denied by the Queensland Government in its administration of Aboriginal and Islander Affairs. 
It is my duty under the Racial Discrimination Act 1 975 - 
I remind honourable senators that the Commissioner reported in 1 978 - to report to the Attorney-General and through him to the Parliament of the Commonwealth, and I would be failing in this duty if I did not outline the situation which I find existing in Queensland and which has been brought to my attention for action under the Act. I would also be wanting in my duty if I did not indicate the lack of co-operation of the Queensland Government in relation to my inquiries into matters of racial discrimination. 
What a condemnation for an official report to state: 
I would also be wanting in my duty if I did not indicate the lack of co-operation of the Queensland Government in relation to my inquiries into matters of racial discrimination. 
The Commissioner continued: 
In addition I have to report upon deficiencies in Commonwealth legislation, principally the Racial Discrimination Act 1975, in achieving even a proper inquiry into matters associated with the exercise of fundamental freedoms and human rights for all racial groups in Queensland. 
The next item on the Notice Paper deals with human rights in the Soviet Union. Might I remind those who wish to put a case, and will be able to put a case, of our own affairs. They should look at our own country, look in particular to Queensland and read the report of the commissioner. One has only to read the following statement to appreciate my point: 
In addition I have to report upon deficiencies in . . . into associated with the exercise of fundamental freedoms and human rights for all racial groups in Queensland. 
The Commissioner contined 
It is my conclusion, after considering all the matters referred to me, reviewing my actions and taking into account the expressed wishes of various communities in Queensland, that the Queensland Government presents a serious problem not only for the racial groups which have complained in Queensland itself but for the whole of Australia. 
It is obvious that a new series of initiatives is required, if equality for all people, regardless of their race or colour, is to be achieved. 
I have quoted from the report because what the commissioner had to say needs to be read out. These remarks can be related to any debate in this place on human rights, whether here or anywhere else. Perhaps I dealt somewhat emotionally with that section of the report. However, I would like to go further and refer to that section of the report which deals with discrimination in education. Under the heading 'Racial Insults' -again it is strange that the Aboriginal people should be involved- the Commissioner states: 
During the past year the Office has received a wide spectrum of complaints against teachers who are alleged to have used racial insults such as the following in their classroom and playground dealings: 
 No wog talk in the playground ! ' 
You fellows who have come to this country to make a better life for yourselves ... we don't want you dragging us down to the level that you left behind '. 
You will be known around here as the little nigger'. 
Black beetles were used by blacks on their sandwiches'. 
The Deputy Head of a large capital city high school is alleged to have used the following: 
Trash',  'wogs'  'f . . .  wogs'  and 'wog bastards'. 'Back where you come from they'd put you up against the wall and shoot you. That's the son of government you've got and that's the sort of government you deserve, you and your sneaky little ways '. 
Teachers were alleged to have made the following remarks about Aborigines: 
Aborigines have brains not much larger than chimpanzees and should be treated accordingly'. 
I will refuse to have black scum in my class'. 
The solution to the problem in this school is the Tasmanian one '. 
They should hit them with pieces of 4 x 2 each day and they would have them jumping through hoops at the end of the year'. 
There should be an open season on Aborigines'. 
I am not talking about South Africa; I am talking about Australia and about the report on discrimination. This report should be read carefully, and the areas of concern which have been described in it should attract the attention of us all. What is said in the report takes my mind back some 50 years. I took it that things had changed. I took it that in the last 50 years Australia had become a much more enlightened society. In fact in many areas it has. But when I read this report I am reminded of the narrow, crude, primative, frontier attitude of many people. I experienced this attitude. I thought that as society changed and as I changed we would see better things. However, when I read what is revealed in this report perhaps we ought to consider whether or not in the last 10 or 15 years we may have regressed in some way. For that reason I suggest- I repeatthat the 1978 third annual report of the Commissioner for Community Relations should be made compulsory reading for every member of Parliament. I suggest that the report should be widely distributed. If we can clearly identify and reveal the problem of racial discrimination as it exists, we are bound to do something good about it. To neglect the problem, having had the problem so well revealed, would be a condemnation of us all. 
I want to remind honourable senators that this Senate also has a responsibility to see that racial discrimination is not practised against any one of its members. My mind returns to the time when  Senator Bonner  was discriminated against racially in a most abhorrent way in a Mount Isa hotel and we in the Senate stood by and did nothing. Instead of taking the position that we are all equal in society, that there ought not to be any different attitude or action taken for a member of Parliament or a senator, and that that person must stand upon his own feet in these situations, I would have thought that the dignity of this Senate was at stake when  Senator Bonner  was treated in such a way. It was not for  Senator Bonner  to raise the matter, and he did not do so. But surely it should have been up to one of us to raise the matter and to say: This senator was discriminated against. 
As a Senate, as an organisation, as an association of which  Senator Bonner  is a member, we should have taken steps to have had explained to us clearly by the hotelier or pub owner in Mount Isa how he could justify the position that he took, his subsequent remark that  Senator Bonner  set him up and his subsequent refusal to apologise until finally he was forced to apologise. I put it on notice that if that happens to  Senator Bonner  or to any other person in this place I will be the one who will initiate action, and I will not take any cool it down' advice from anyone in this place. I will insist that the Senate take action to bring before the Senate itself the person or persons to explain why one of its members has been discriminated against on the basis of colour in the way that  Senator Bonner  was discriminated against. 
According to this report racial discrimination is apparently prevalent. The farther you get away from Canberra the more prevalent it appears to be. It is unfortunate that it happens to be the Aboriginal people who suffer the brunt of the discrimination. It is up to the Senate, based on this report, to see that it does not occur, that it does not continue. If we are to confront the Queensland Government because of this report, let us confront it. In this report there is evidence that the Commissioner approached the Queensland authorities with complaints of blatant discrimination, restriction of freedom, restriction of rights, but the Queensland Government did not respond or reply. The Commissioner is appointed by this Government and operates under an Act of this Parliament. He carries out a responsibility given to us under the referendum for the protection of the rights and freedoms of the Aboriginal people. It appears to me that we still neglect them. If we do not neglect them in any other State then we certainly do neglect them in Queensland and it should not be permitted any further. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
I did noi expect to participate in debate again so soon. I thought that  Senator Harradine  might have persisted with his motion in order to allow some honourable senators to make comments, some of which would have supported his concern, and others would have taken up some of his statements which I do not believe were entirely accurate. Of course, having given him leave to withdraw, I would be completely out of order if I persisted in debating the matter. Nevertheless,  Senator Harradine  ought to be concerned that he has cut off a debate which could have proved to be interesting, if not to his disadvantage. 
I shall now speak to a motion I placed on the Notice Paper. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement by the  President  on 21 September 1978 relating to Parliament House security. 
The matter of the security of Parliament House has been debated at great length and with considerable emotion and excitement. The escalation of security measures arose from what I would say was an over-reaction on the part of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which led to a confrontation between him and the  Speaker  and the  President.  It seems strange that there should have emerged during that contest the need to remind the Prime Minister and the Executive that the Parliament is not their instrument but the instrument of the people and the representatives of the people who, through the  Speaker  and the  President,  have control of their affairs. That includes the security of this place. My complaint is that there was an over-reaction and that there has been imposed on this place a most unnecessary over-security. To my mind it has created an atmosphere of intimidation at a time when this sense of the need for security was at its highest. It seems unnecessary that we should have in this place staff who have not been allowed to carry out their duties or who perhaps were not even properly informed of their duties, and whose responsibilities were not clearly denned, in respect of the certain places and certain corridors that were to be secured against unauthorised entry. 
It seemed to me that the best way to achieve improved security in this place would have been to give to the attendants their rightful authority and a proper understanding of their duties because they were in the best position to recognise and to know who was entitled to move from place to place. Since they are familiar with the staff, the members of Parliament and all those who work within the precincts of Parliament, they would be able to recognise those who were not entitled to be in the corridors. Over the years there has been a laxity which has allowed people to move freely through the corridors without any check, hindrance or questioning. This led to a breakdown in the security of Parliament House. 
The new security arrangements have proved to be an intrusion into the rights of parliamentarians to carry out their duties without interference. We should not have had imposed upon us such a system, which I consider to be completely unnecessary, expensive and, if it came to the test, completely ineffective because it would not prevent a determined person from committing some act of terror against this place. The measures that have been taken will not do that. In fact, I think that the system which has been imposed could be used to facilitate entry. In view of the number of passes that have been issued, it is possible for a person to obtain a pass and gain entry without question because the pass would give him an unquestioned authority to move from place to place. 
I will get to that point if you want to push me to it. I may have slipped away from the point I was making. When the Prime Minister endeavoured to impose oversecurity on this place, the two Presiding Officers resisted. I think that they then came to a compromise which, I believe, led to an over-security situation. I am critical of the Presiding Officers in that they took upon themselves decisions that should not have been made without reference to this Parliament. The honourable senator has reminded me that a decision has been made without reference to and without consultation with the Parliament. It is an acceptance by them of an authority which is really an authority which belongs to the Parliament. I am critical of this situation. I am not critical of the fact that the Presiding Officers stood up to the Prime Minister; I think that that was the right decision for them to take in protection of our rights. But in coming to the compromise and in failing to consult the Parliament they have implemented certain measures that were quite unnecessary. If the Parliament had debated them and they had understood some of our arguments, possibly they would not have proceeded with what I consider to be an over-security situation. The installation of certain electronic scrutiny devices is a matter that should have been carefully considered. It should have been debated. 
I would have expected the Presiding Officers to take some note of the necessity for freedom of access to our galleries. There have been references to what happens overseas but my point is that we have not reached that stage. We are nowhere near it and we ought not to accelerate unnecessary adoption of measures that have been taken overseas. Apparently the Presiding Officers have taken upon themselves the decision to expend a vast sum of money in altering the entrance to this place. I do not know that anyone was aware that we were suddenly to have a massive reconstruction of the front entrance to this place. I was not aware of it. Perhaps something was debated or decided somewhere in this place and I missed the debate. I do not think I did. 
It was not debated; yet we are to have a new procedure for entry into this place. The construction work is taking place outside. It seems to me that we have converted this place into a citadel and entry to the citadel by the people shall be through a series of electronic scanning devices in order to protect us. Protect us from what? Is it the intention to protect us from someone showering a couple of leaflets down from the balcony, or perhaps making a loud comment from the galleries? Are we so privileged as to be protected in this way? Are we all such cowards that we fear for our lives? I take it that every one of us here has come under threat. Recently, I have received a whole series of letters from different directions, from crackpots who talk in such terms as 'What you need is a bullet throught the head'. We all get those threats. I received through a reporter information that at one of the demonstrations in which I was to take part there would be a person with a bomb strapped around the waist, and that person did not really care because he had only three days to live. An element of terror was brought into that situation. But everyone here has suffered those sorts of threats, and what we normally do is make note of them. We might inform the Commonwealth Police of the time and place of such a threat, but we give it no further currency. The style of our lives does lead to that sort of intimidation. But surely, having received that sort of intimidatory threat, we do not panic and surround ourselves with useless devices and some protection that really is not a protection at all. Our protection, I would think, is the style and manner in which we operate and the sense that we can operate freely without over-security. Once we seek this over-security, of course, we place ourselves in the hands of the security agents, who then have a vested interest to make certain that we are reminded of our insecurity from time to time. So we have an escalation of procedures, devices and incidents which lead to and justify the measures that have been taken to protect us. 
That is a rather garbled analogy, but honourable senators know what I am getting at. If we are to have a security force to protect us, that security force will justify itself by manufacturing the incidents which lead to reinforcing their need. 
I have said sufficient without buying into a fight with the Presiding officers. All I am saying is that the Presiding Officers should not have made a decision of that magnitude without reference of the matter to this chamber for a decision. I do not doubt that the Presiding Officers would have had the numbers to get their own way, but at least they should have given us the courtesy of a debate in this place before that expenditure was undertaken. That it is a useless expenditure is the point I am making. 
It gets beyond that point when the  President  or the  Speaker  in particular takes it upon himself to think that he has the sole authority to spend money and alter the facilities and the procedures in this place. I would have thought that the Presiding Officers took their authority from us, and if that authority is to be properly exercised, they ought to be referring to us continually. 
I am a member of the Joint House Committee, but I find I have no rights on that Committee, except in an advisory capacity. I can bow, I can say: 'Yes, I agree' or 'I think it would be a good idea if we did this or we did that'. But when it comes to the crunch the Presiding officer says: No, you have no vote in this matter. You cannot overrule me. I am the power'. 
Let me return to the matter of security. I would like to reinforce my attitude that it is an affront to identify members of Parliament by badge. This has not happened, although some members have taken it upon themselves to identify themselves in this way in order to be part of the mass. It is also an affront, idle and unnecessary, to identify our attendants who wear a uniform. The symbol of their authority is their uniform. Yet apparently they must now identify themselves by badge. Our  Hansard  people are required to identify themselves by badge. A secretary of a committee is identified by badge, irrespective of the fact that everyone in the area where he works is a part of the Parliament and every other person knows who he is. It is to me an unnecessary identification. It seems to me to be a perfect insult that once the visitors and the public go through the necessary procedure of some basic security check they then have to wear an identification badge and be escorted at all times, into the dining room in particular. We sit in our dining room with our guests all labelled with identifying passes, which I consider to be unnecessary and childish. 
We find the same thing occurring in our corridors. I find that unnecessary and I think it is a system which can be misused. In fact it has been misused, and people can move around freely wearing one another's badges, because those badges are not properly checked. I am told that at one stage there a badge which carried the photograph of the face of an Alsatian dog, was worn throughout this place for the whole day without its being checked. I am also told that there are thousands of these badges issued and many of them are not returned. Have we gone into a very costly procedure unnecessarily? 
Let me get back to the point that I was making in the first place. I do not think that the procedures of this place ought not to be changed without proper consultation. We delegate authority to the Presiding Officers. Those Presiding Officers do not take that authority out of the air. Their authority flows from us, and if it is to flow effectively it ought to be by way of consultation. I would hope that at the right time we get a proper explanation of the decision that was made to spend an amount which someone said was $ 1 m- I do not know what it is- to change the entrance to Parliament House. I do know it cost the Government almost $50,000 to convert a sauna room in this building. If it cost that much money for a minor alteration I wonder what it will cost to alter the front of Parliament House to make secure something which it is impossible to secure, as I have endeavoured to explain. I think we ought to be prepared to take the risk. I think we ought to impose that sort of opinion upon our Presiding Officers and save ourselves a lot of trouble and a lot of money. 

 Mr Deputy President, I do not know whether I have congratulated you on having acted as  President  for some two weeks now. May I congratulate you on the manner in which you have carried out your duties? My view of a Presiding Officer is that of a person who does not interrupt the debate. I would say that a  President  who is capable of controlling this chamber without - 
I must complete my remarks. I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy President,  on the manner in which you have supervised this chamber. Had you been in charge of the security measures adopted in this place, I think you would have consulted in the manner which I have suggested. 
Debate interrupted. 
I listened with interest to what  Senator MacGibbon  had to say.  His  contribution, together with that of  Senator Hamer,  seems to seek a new role for the Senate. It appears that both senators are well intentioned. In fact, they are very hopeful. I wished  Senator Hamer  success, and he has now the support of  Senator MacGibbon.  What attracted me in the remarks of  Senator MacGibbon  was his concern for the rights of the individual. If he has a particular interest in this matter he should just recently, as a Queensland senator, have been moved to consider the rights of one individual in particular. I seek to enlist his support to see whether an injustice which has been perpetrated against an individual in Queensland can be corrected. If I sensed his attitude correctly, I believe that he is interested in the rights of individuals and of minorities. Therefore I presume to attract his attention to what happened in Queensland over the past week. I am not concerned about myself or about any group with which I am associated in the campaign in Queensland to establish some sort of understanding of the need for the rights of individuals. That is a matter that I can take up myself in various forums. I can take particular actions which might lead me to accept some penalty. I can, I assure  Senator MacGibbon,  look after myself. 
In the case in question an individual was exposed and became defenceless. The honourable senator is in a position to assist. If not, his Party is. I refer to the case of Michael Egan, a young policeman in Queensland who suddenly, and rather emotionally, came to the decision that he would quit the police force. He did so when he was performing his duty as part of the police force, which was supervising a small rally of a group of women who were celebrating International Women's Day. As happens in Queensland from time to time, the police overreacted to the situation and, possibly stimulated by the peculiar attitude of the Special Branch in that State, took action against this small group of men and women who, in any other State, would not have been considered to be breaking the law. They were on the footpath. They were in twos and threes. Perhaps they were not dressed according to the norm. Perhaps they were not supporting what many of us more conservative individuals would support. Nevertheless, they had a point of view that they wanted and should have been free to put. 
During that demonstration Constable Egan decided that he had had enough. A friend of his was one of the demonstrators and was about to be arrested by Special Branch police. He came to her defence and in so doing put himself in a position in which he had to resign from the police force. That should have been penalty enough. But what happened as a result of that resignation? He drew upon himself the wrath of a considerable proportion of the police force in Queensland- I do not say all the police force because I know it to be otherwise. Within the space of a few days he became a fugitive within his own city. He was not a fugitive from some Mafia organisation or brotherhood. He was not a fugitive from some criminal underworld. He became a fugitive from the police force in Queensland. Surely  Senator MacGibbon  must be as alarmed as I am at the result of that sequence of events which made this man a fugitive to the point that today he left Queensland and took a train to Victoria. He was not prepared to go by car or motorcycle. He thought the safest way was to leave by train. According to an article in the  Age  today he decided to lose his identity, to disappear as an individual and to emerge again. 
We are not talking about Alabama, South Africa or one of the dictatorships of South America. We are talking about Queensland, an Australian State, one of the States of the Federation. It seems to me that action needs to be taken by those of us who represent Queensland to see that this does not happen again. What Constable Egan did was to bring to the surface in a dramatic way that sickening problem which is Queensland's problem. Immediately Constable Egan took this step he was vilified by the Premier and leading officials of the police force. Is Michael Egan paranoid in leaving the State? Am I paranoid in describing his actions in this way? Perhaps I would not have done so on Wednesday of last week but after the episodes of Thursday of last week I would say that Michael Egan is not paranoid. Nor am I. 
Let me recount what happened to Michael Egan. He suffered personal attacks from the Premier who dismissed him as a person of no account who was not fit to be a member of the police force. In spite of two years of substantial support from within the force- this has been proved by letters that were written- he was vilified and discounted by the Premier. The Premier tried to associate him with the more radical groups of the civil liberties movement in Queensland, fortunately without success. On the Thursday night Michael Egan, because he was concerned about rumours which were being circulated within the police department and by others, in particular the Special Branch, endeavoured to contact me by telephone. On that night the civil liberties group happened to be holding a rally in the teachers' hall in order to gather support nationally for the proposition that there should be a change of legislation in Queensland. The proposal for a change of legislation was supported by the Liberal Party of which  Senator MacGibbon  is a member and by the Labor Party. The two major parties in Queensland support a change but the Premier and the National Party do not. 
I was at that meeting. Michael Egan rang my home. He was told that I was at the meeting. He discussed the matter with my wife. He said that it was urgent and that he did not think it would be advisable for him to go to a civil liberties meeting. As it happened I did not receive the message to ring him back. Towards the end of the meeting, at about 10 o'clock, he decided to turn up. He rode his motorcycle to the teachers' hall, parked it outside and came into the hall. I spoke to him for some time together with Tom Uren and a civil liberties lawyer called Terry O 'Gorman, an executive member of the Council of Civil Liberties. We knew that newsmen were outside. We also knew that the meeting had attracted a considerable number of police, including half the Special Branch. It was said that 37 police were present. Our estimate was that there were considerably more but let us say that 37 police were outside the hall to supervise a meeting of about 150 people. Among the police present were a couple of dog handlers who used the dogs in order to control riots and disturbances. 
The meeting dispersed. Only a handful of us were left, including Michael Egan, Tom Uren, Terry O 'Gorman and I. We deliberately delayed for at least half an hour to allow the police to disperse and the newsmen to leave. At the end of that time it was suggested to Michael Egan that he leave by the back entrance of the teachers' hall. The caretaker made those arrangements. Michael Egan said: 'My bike is at the front and I prefer to leave from the front'. We went to the footpath. Michael Egan reached his motorcycle and put on his helmet. I exchanged a few words with him. He had said to me that he was afraid. He was to see his lawyers the next day to seek their advice. He was seeking my advice. The advice being given to him was that he should leave the State. That advice was being given to him by a person no less that the exCommissioner of Police in Queensland,  Mr Whitrod.  It was being given to him by his close associates. It was being given to him by the leading criminal lawyer in Queensland. He was to discuss the matter the next day. Michael Egan wanted to stay and work in Queensland. He wanted to be with his friends. He wanted to close to his home. 
We were tailing off the conversation on the footpath. I remember the sequence of events as I spoke to him very clearly. Suddenly everything slowed down. This happens when one suddenly realises that something is happening and one does not really know what to do about it. A policeman detached himself from the group on the right, walked past Michael Egan's motorcycle a few yards away from me and deliberately looked at the number place of the bike. He walked further down the street and gave that information to a commissioned officer who transmitted the information over a radio. This was clear; I saw it. There is no doubt in my mind as to what happened. Michael Egan took off on his motorcycle at what I would consider to be a normal pace for any vehicle. Admittedly, as I remarked to Tom Uren, his exhaust sounded a little rowdy, but that is the nature of exhausts in motorcycles. A motorcyclist drops a couple of baffle plates, puts a bell fitting on the end of the exhaust, and gives his motorcycle a full 'burble' as we used to call it when we were youngsters. That is the sort of exhaust which Michael Egan had. 
As he took off from the footpath and moved up Boundary Street a police patrol car pulled out from a side street. It was not in sight of Michael Egan. It followed him up Boundary Street. Immediately people scattered for their cars. It was suggested that Michael Egan should be followed home to see that he arrived safely. As it happened a patrol car followed Michael Egan. Newspaper men ran to their cars. We went to our cars, but mine was facing the wrong way. I took time to put my seat belt on because I was in full view of a group of policemen, one of whom was continuing to transmit. My view is, and it is supported by what happened afterwards, is that the details of Michael Egan's number plate and the fact that he was leaving were flashed to every patrol car and every motor cycle policeman in the area. 
We missed a turn. Michael Egan went left; we went straight on. But when we came back we discovered that Michael Egan had been apprehended in Wickham Terrace by 10 police cars and seven motor cycles. What happened was recorded by radio and television reporters. The police cars and motor cycles all converged on one solitary single individual in Wickham Terrace. Most honourable senators would have heard the broadcast of that event and the exchange between Terry O 'Gorman, who reached the scene, and the apprehending officer. Michael Egan was booked for having a faulty muffler. At the end of the exchange the policeman said: 'You'll keep'. That was evidence to both Michael Egan and myself that he was to be the object of considerable harassment. There was no doubt that the police were determined to drive Michael Egan out of the State. Michael Egan was followed and a television sequence on the Haydn Sargent program showed him arriving for a television appointment at Mount Cootha followed by an unmarked car with four Special Branch policemen in it. This was after the Police Commissioner had given an assurance that there would be no harassment of Michael Egan. Police cars went past his home at Bardon at regular intervals. It was evident that the advice given by Whitrod was good advice. The advice given to Michael Egan by his lawyers the next day was good advice also, and he has taken that advice. 
The question I want to ask now of the Government is this: Has the federalism policy of this Government succeeded so well that the Government can ignore what happened in Queensland to Michael Egan, a person driven out of the State, hounded out of the State, because he had the temerity to speak openly about exercising his discretion not to arrest in a situation where he believed a law was not being broken? Michael Egan has had some sharp words to say. He did not come to his decision lightly. He possibly would not have come to the decision so quickly had the incident not occurred at the demonstration. He said, among other things, that there is a requirement in Queensland that young police officers should follow the direction of their commissioned officers. Their discretion is limited. He said it was generally accepted in the Queensland police force that the discretion of officers was not to be exercised. In fact that discretion has been given away by senior officers of the police force. The general impression is that the police force does not operate on its own in the interests of the people but is a servant to the government of the day. It is to that level that the police force in Queensland has been allowed to descend. 
Nevertheless Michael Egan, having given thought to the matter, suddenly burst out of what had become a bondage for him. As he said, he was required to fabricate evidence, and he objected to this. He was not allowed to use his discretion, and he objected to this. He believed the Police Commissioner had surrendered his discretion to the Queensland Government, and he did not agree with this. But the decision to resign from the police force having been made in a dramatic way, surely everyone here, including the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick),  will accept that it was not to be expected that he should be treated in this way. Therefore, since the Leader of the Government in the Senate is here, I ask him- and perhaps at some future time I may be able to ask him other questions- what action is to be taken by the Federal Government to ensure that the rights of an individual are protected against such harassment. 'Harassment' is the only word that can be used. Is such treatment as would force an individual to leave his State, leave his city, leave his home, lose himself in another State, and lose his identity to be tolerated in Australia? Is that to be accepted as something that can occur to an Australian person or, for that matter, any individual? 
The matter will not rest there of course. There are many forces at work which will change the situation. I say to  Senator MacGibbon  that if he and his colleagues in Queensland were prepared to apply themselves to the problem and within their party bring pressure to bear upon the right person in Queensland, the situation would change dramatically. Let us look at the position in Queensland. A recent poll reveals that the antics of the Premier of Queensland are beginning to lose him support. In spite of the electoral gerrymander, support is beginning to swing to another party. I would say at this stage it happens to be the Liberal Party. As that is evident, of course it is now the responsibility of the Liberal Party to seize upon the situation and to change the balance in Queensland to bring about what I would consider to be a more enlightened type of Government. It seems to me that many people would express the same views as those  Senator MacGibbon  has expressed here tonight. It seems to me also that if that opinion were to be expressed more widely the Liberal Party would seize the opportunity, perhaps for a short time assisted by another party, to change the direction of government in Queensland so that people like Michael Egan are no longer harassed. There is much to be done in Queensland and much needs to be changed if the basic rights of individuals with which the Liberals are so much concerned, are to be protected. 
I have here a letter which I received from the Dean of the Faculty of Law at the University of Queensland, R. N. Barber. It states: 
I understand that the Criminal Investigation Bill 1977 is shortly to have its second reading in Federal Parliament. 
That is not quite correct, as I discovered when I asked a question the other night. The Bill was brought before Parliament, the Parliament was dissolved and I do not think the Bill has been brought back. That is my understanding. I think  Senator Missen  pointed that out to me. Nevertheless the Bill is somewhere. Dean Barber says: 
As a lawyer, I consider that the enactment of this Bill is most desirable and I respectfully commend it to you. It will serve as a basic safeguard to human rights. In particular I would urge that 5.24 (dealing with the treatment of persons under restraint) be passed in its present form, so as to ensure that persons awaiting trial, and- obviously- whose guilt has not been proven, are treated with dignity and respect as befits all human beings. 
Michael Egan is a classic example of what has been allowed to happen in Queensland. He suddenly became the bench mark. He is an individual not associated with the civil liberties movement who was repelled by police action, repelled by the police force of which he was a part, and he rebelled. I have given the sequence of events which made him a fugitive in his own land. 
I come now to what Dean Barber refers to as the basic human rights of individuals at the point of arrest before they have been taken to a court and before they have been proven guilty. He refers to the need for human beings to be treated with dignity and respect at that point. My experience is that at the point of arrest, in Queensland at least, a person becomes less than human. When I was first arrested, I must admit, I was vocal about it. I proclaimed all sorts of things. I called for all sorts of* assistance. I think Terry O 'Gorman said to me: 'What has happened to you happens to blacks every night of the week both in Brisbane and Redfern'. From my experience once one is arrested one has no rights. One may be in a watch house and treated as though one has no rights at all. From the point of arrest one is treated with physical force that is not necessary to carry out the arrest. It seems that the Queensland police force is taught that to arrest a person he must be seized firmly and his arm must be thrust behind his back. If he resists in any way handcuffs must be applied and if the resistance is in concert with some other disorder physical violence is to be applied and is condoned in those circumstances. The conditions in the watch house and in the remand section of the prison are such that one can only accept what Dean Barber said, namely that the Criminal Investigation Bill of 1977 should be brought back within the Parliament and passed as swiftly as possible. That would cover only the Territories. Nevertheless it might set an example which, as I said the other night, Queensland eventually would be forced to follow. 
What happened after my arrest I found hard to believe. The magistrates' courts were not the independent courts that I believed them to be. The whole sequence of events revealed the true nature of the situation, how justice is applied at the lower level in Queensland. Honourable senators should realise, of course, that the magistrates' courts are the people's courts. Many of us will finish in some conflict with the law and may appear before a magistrate's court. The magistrate's court should be fair and above any reproach whatsoever. But one discovers the reality is that the magistrate is a servant of the Queensland Department of Justice. He depends upon the Department for his promotion. He is not part of the independent judiciary, and he should be. The prosecutor in a magistrate's court is a member of the Police Department, not of the Crown Solicitor's Office. The person bringing the charge is nearly always a policeman, a member of the Police Department. In reality the situation is loaded against the defendant. Time after time I have been witness to situations in which the magistrate has accepted the word of the police without question and has dismissed the defendant as a liar. A leading lawyer in Queensland was correct when he said that procedures before the court become, under test, an exercise in lying. A person who is able to lie best has the best chance of success. Surely we cannot permit this state of affairs to continue. 
I am sorry that I should be seizing upon what  Senator MacGibbon  has said. I mentioned him several times in my speech. Because of the nature of the electoral distribution in Queensland the immediate solution to the problem rests very much with the Liberal Party. Why should I concern myself with the short term solution? The short term solution is necessary because of what happened to Michael Egan. It happened last week. It is affecting Michael Egan and his family right now. We cannot wait till there is a change of government in Queensland. That may take some time. Injustice after injustice is occurring in Queensland under the administration of a National Party government led by a person who is not, shall we term it, a worthy representative of his own party. That is how bad the situation has become. 
-It was suggested by a member of the Liberal Party. Of course there is now pressure on  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to resign because of it. Neverthless  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is so glorified in his own ability - 
When I think of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  I think of Michael Egan. All my sympathy is with Michael Egan and there is none left for  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  because he is the person who denigrates people such as Michael Egan. He can see no good, no principle in people such as that young person. When it was said to him: 'Michael Egan has been hounded out of this State' he said: 'Of course Michael Egan is free to go. He can go if he wants to. I am interested only in those people who are coming to Queensland to invest their money. Since we abolished death duties many people have been coming to Queensland. I am interested only in them '. He is not interested in what is right for the individual. He is not interested in Michael Egan. Because Michael Egan did something with which he did not agree, in his eyes Michael Egan became a raving radical overnight. 
-Senator Cavanagh is seeking to get from me some outright condemnation of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  If he looks back over the record he will see that I have had some harsh things to say about the Premier of Queensland. I do not apologise for them. What he has done to Michael Egan justifies all that I have said. It is not necessary for me to say anything further. He is not suffering from any recently acquired complaint. He has behaved in this way from the very start. I do not think that anyone should accept the responsibility except those in the Liberal Party in Queensland because they have a solution to the problem. Again I come back - 
-Senator, you try me, but I should not retaliate. I have merely entered this debate to ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  who is in the chamber whether he is satisfied that his concept of federalism was intended to reach a position in which the States should become so sovereign, so separate and so different in the application of human rights that we can condone, ignore or be indifferent to what has happened in Queensland. I would like to ask the honourable senator a question. I know that he cannot enter into this debate but, as  Senator Baume  was suddenly stirred into entering the debate by something which  Senator McAuliffe  said, perhaps I can stir  Senator Carrick  into responding. Perhaps he could respond and say that the human rights legislation which the Government intends to introduce will make it impossible for any government in Australia to treat an individual as the Queensland Government has treated Michael Egan. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Was it before or after the question that was asked on 23 November about senior officers of the Department of Social Security accompanying the Commonwealth Police on raids against people suspected of social security frauds that the Minister learned that her Director-General,  Mr Lanigan,  spent two hours in the police operations room on the main night these people were arrested? Did she know about it when, on 24 November, the following day, she denied that her Department had been closely involved with police activities? Did she know it when she wrote to  Senator Grimes  on 5 December and reported - 
-My advice to the Minister would be to sack Lanigan. If she had sacked him she would not be in the trouble that she is in. Apparently Government members are slow learners in this matter. I can see no reason why the Minister should defend the indefensible. I will finish the question. Did she know of the involvement of  Mr Lanigan  when she wrote to  Senator Grimes  on 5 December and reported on the liaison and interpreting activities of junior officers but wrote not one word about her most senior public servant? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. 
It will be short. When does he intend to reintroduce the Criminal Investigation Bill? 
-by leave- The other day I raised the matter of Question Time, using a form which would allow the  President  to give some statement to the Senate so that we could debate the matter. Today  Senator Townley  has asked practically the same question as I asked and you,  Mr President,  gave a response. The result is that we are not in a position to take note of the statement so that we can debate it. It is important that the matter be debated. What has crept into the Senate is a new device by which a Minister can ask without seeking leave and without moving a motion, to place all further questions on notice- not just questions addressed to him but also questions which may be directed through him to other Ministers. 
Since I raised the matter I have been attracted to a section in  Mr Odgers'  Senate Practice,  but with all due respect to him a close reading of the section does not give a clear indication or a clear decision. It seems to me that we may have fallen into error in allowing the Leader of the Government in the Senate to ask that all further questions be placed on notice without leave first being sought from the Senate or a motion being carried. If the matter is unclear then it ought to go to the Standing Orders Committee for debate. I believe that what  Senator Cavanagh  says is correct: A backlog has developed of questions not asked, and that backlog seems to go through the whole of the week. The point that  Senator Cavanagh  made is clear, that once the Goverment knows that there is a limit to the period for Question Time, in order to protect its Ministers from a period of aggressive questioning it plans its questions- there is much evidence of this- and there are planned responses. The questions that are asked of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  are obviously planned questions. The answers that are given on many occasions are planned answers which have no relevance to Question Time and really ought to be confined to the adjournment. However, I do not wish to extend the debate at this stage. 

 Mr President, I had hoped that by your putting down a statement in response to my request a couple of days ago, the statement would have been brought before the House and we could have debated it at some length. It is important to us that the matter be resolved. 
I present the following petition from 276 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1 97 1 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I remind the Leader of the Government in the Senate of his prediction that interest rates would drop by 2 per cent. I ask him now: When does he expect to reach that target? 
-Since there is now a motion moved in respect of this report- it was anticipated that  Senator Mason  would move that the Senate take note of the report- perhaps I can speak to it. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I present the following petition from 408 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 78 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Honourable Senators in Parliament assembled. This petition of citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth that: 
Australia's Aboriginal and Islander peoples have not been compensated for the loss of their traditional land, social and cultural independence and self-respect. 
Australia lags behind other nations with white majorities in providing a Treaty of Commitment to its indigenous peoples giving them a defined proportion of national income for a defined period freehold title to traditional land, waterways and seaboards control over related resources and over the introduction of alcohol and other alien cultural influences in their regions. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that your honourable House will take urgent steps to concur with the wishes of a majority of electors at every polling booth in Australia at the 1967 referendum by resumption from the States of the major traditional Aboriginal land areas and reserves and former reserves as at 31.3.1978, to become federal Crown land pending prompt determination of freehold title for Land Trusts and eventually for denned community co-operatives. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 402 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees ) Act 1 97 1 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I seek leave to make my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I would like to reinforce  Senator Harradine's  complaint. I took his statement to be a complaint, and a very valid complaint. As he is a member of the Library Committee of the Senate, the information he has obtained must be accurate. Therefore I want an assurance that this matter will be looked at. The explanation of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  that these things will fall into place is not very satisfactory to me. I believe that they will fall into place only if considerable pressure is applied to prevent some anomaly occurring. It would be more than an anomaly as far as the Parliamentary Library is concerned. If there is to be some concept whereby the Parliamentary Library is closely connected with the National Library, perhaps that would be the explanation. But I put it to  Senator Carrick  that, unless there is that sort of explanation,  Senator Harradine's  point should be followed through to make certain that the Library's facilities are not to be depleted in any way. I also take it that there will be an opportunity for members of this Parliament to look at the allocation of space as we get closer to the point of acceptance of the plans for construction. I take it that that will be the position. If not, we would have to look very carefully in the meetings of the various committees on which we serve to make certain that the appropriate space has been made available for such areas as the Parliamentary Library. 
I recommend to the  Chairman  of the excellent Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances that he send post haste a copy of this report to the Queensland Parliament. It may inspire that State to set up a similar committee based on the sound principles which have been expounded here tonight. I say that very seriously. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I take it that included in the resumed debate on the statement will be the answer given on this matter earlier. I have moved this motion because it is necessary for the Parliament to debate this very important statement on 2,4,5-T, and the answer in particular. The action of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  in incorporating this statement vindicates my point that such information should be given subsequent to Question Time rather than during Question Time. We can then move that the Senate take note of such information. It is essential that the Senate be given the opportunity to debate what is considered an important question and an important answer. Ministers should feel less inclined to make lengthy statements at Question Time. If they appreciate what I am saying they will appreciate the necessity for making those statements after Question Time. 
If the Minister concerned said that the question raised an important issue and asked the questioner to place the question on the Notice Paper, at the end of Question Time he could then make a full statement, which would enable any honourable senator to take advantage of the opportunity to move that the Senate take note of the statement, thereby placing it on the Notice Paper and having it debated subsequently, or for that matter to say something on the subject at the time that the statement is brought down. That is the basis of my continual objection during Question Time to Ministers making what are virtually important statements on very important matters. 
The Minister tried to deride me by saying that I was not interested in this matter. The contrary is the case. I am very interested in this matter, as are  Senator Mason  and  Senator Melzer.  The Senate as a whole is interested in what the Minister has to say. It is certainly interested in what honourable senators have to say on the matter. I am certain that the community as a whole has a very vital interest in the subject. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The motion before the Senate is: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
The Opposition has had a chance to read the statement made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and to listen to  Senator Button's  comments on it. My view is that such an outrageous statement is a highwayman's statement, the debate on which ought not to be postponed until the next day of sitting. The debate on the statement should continue at a later stage today. For that reason I am speaking about the motion. As I have said, this statement is outrageous.  Senator Button  indicated that what is proposed will not work. Nevertheless, it will cause a considerable amount of discontent in the community. This shows the Government's extraordinary approach to industrial relations. 
I speak on behalf of the Miscellaneous Workers Union. I am concerned with the section of the statement which deals with that Union. 
I am speaking to the motion. I am making the point that the statement must cause considerable concern, if not for supporters of the Government, for members of the Opposition. We need to debate this statement promptly. The Government has sought to adjourn the debate.  Senator Button  did not endeavour to seek leave to continue his remarks later, because he felt that other honourable senators would like to make some comments on the statement. It may have been possible for some Government senators to express their point of view on the statement and at least to expose the Government. The only word that comes to my mind to describe this statement is 'abhorrent'. If Government senators endeavour to support it they will put themselves in what I consider to be an abhorrent position. The sooner we debate the statement, the better. The sooner Government senators start to support statements of this sort and try to justify or rationalise them, the better. The sooner we have a debate in this place, the better. The sooner honourable senators on this side of the chamber have something to say on this sort of statement, the better. My view of it is - 
-Let us take a look at the statement. Even  Senator Missen  would pull away from this statement because he knows that it will lead to continual industrial unrest. 
Let us consider a recent dispute which took place. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. The current session of the law of the sea conference in Geneva is dealing with the protection of marine environment. I ask: Why is not the Department of Science and the Environment represented at this meeting? Why has Australia's representation been limited to junior officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs? Does not this situation expose grave negligence on the part of the Minister as he is responsible for comprehensive legislation to protect Australia's marine environment, nationally and internationally? 
-by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I take this opportunity to say a few words concerning the agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the State of Queensland concerning the National Estate. I noticed that the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  mentioned that the agreements had been signed in February. I have not yet had the opportunity of looking at this report because, unless a prior arrangement is made by the Minister, such reports do not become available until the Minister tables them. I noticed also that he was rather gleeful in announcing these agreements. Normally, I would be gleeful with him but I would suggest that when next he considers making such an agreement with the State of Queensland he ought to obtain an understanding from its Premier that the Bellevue Hotel and associated buildings, called The Mansions, will be restored, maintained and become part of the National Estate. 
I wish to make the brief criticism that the Premier's position as far as the Bellevue Hotel is concerned can be described only as one of the deliberate vandalism of a very noble building. He was recently on record as saying that the interior of the hotel was a load of rubbish. But he was responsible for that condition because, in order to justify his statement that it is a load of rubbish and suitable only for demolition, he undertook a deliberate course which reduced the building to a state of disrepair. Nothing could describe that course better than the term 'deliberate vandalism'. 
The Premier removed the wonderful exterior of the Bellevue Hotel and stored it away. He allowed the building to fall into gross disrepair. He allowed the internal part to be dismantled and lie in a condition of disrepair. Now he has the audacity to come forward and say that it is a load of rubbish. He ought not to be allowed to get away with that sort of behaviour. When we are considering agreements to supply money to the State of Queensland for support for the National Estate we should keep in mind exactly how the Premier of that State behaves in these matters. Unless the agreement with Queensland binds the Premier to upholding certain conditions regarding the preservation of certain important buildings, in particular the Bellevue Hotel, he is not to be trusted. Much money that need not have been spent will now need to be spent on that hotel. The argument now used is that it will cost far too much to restore it. Whatever the cost, I believe it ought to be restored and that its restoration should form part of the agreement. 
The Premier of Queensland can spend more than $20m on a parliamentary annexe- a term which has been revealed as a subterfuge, because the Parliament now meets in the annexe- to house the 82 members of the State Parliament, surely he can allocate sufficient moneys for the restoration of the Bellevue Hotel. As I have said, the Bellevue Hotel has been reduced by the Premier, to justify his description of it, to a load of rubbish. I think he stands condemned for that. Lest the responsible Minister argue at some later stage that we cannot put any conditions on agreements of this sort, I refer to the example set by the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  in standing over New South Wales in respect of the shorter working week for power workers in New South Wales by saying that that State will not receive the financial assistance that - 
-Is that what you say? If that is the sort of policy that this Government is to pursue in New South Wales, let it pursue the same policy in Queensland so far as the National Estate is concerned. 
It is somewhat different. Nevertheless let us follow the guidelines that have been laid down by this Government. Let us stand over the Premier of Queensland and say that a part of any money that is made available to Queensland for the protection of the National Estate is to go the the Bellevue Hotel, irrespective of what he thinks. His attitude has been autocratic and disruptive and, if I may stretch the Standing Orders a little, his behaviour has been that of a vandal in regard to his ability - 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I do not wish to reinforce what the Leader Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  has said; I merely want the matter put on the Notice Paper so that we are able to debate it at an opportune time. For that reason I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I enter this debate because my name has been mentioned on a couple of occasions. It has been suggested that this clause may, in some way, affect my activities in Queensland. I thank  Senator Chipp  for the kind remarks which he made. Having listened to the various comments made, I have a feeling that they are so very late. It would have been better to have accepted the proposition of the Opposition to withdraw and redraft the Bill. Perhaps the Bill should be referred to a committee. At the rate we are going it may be necessary for a special committee to consider the Bill during the recess period and make certain recommendations to which both sides of the Parliament agree. 
This Bill is endeavouring to legitimise what is already happening, particularly in Queensland. Activities such as those in which I have taken part on behalf of the civil liberties group in Queensland are under surveillance of the type that this clause proposes and about which so much fear has been expressed. Whenever we hold a meeting in Queensland we are under surveillance by the Special Branch. Whenever we make any proposal directed towards the iniquitous laws of Queensland, it is in the hands of the Special Branch almost within the hour. 
I am talking about lawfully constituted meetings which are under surveillance by the Special Branch under direction from the government of the day. 
It is obvious that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  is not going to answer the question. I put it to him that he is required to give an answer. This is his legislation which he has introduced. He is required to give some explanations. He can call them kerbside legal opinions if he likes. In the future when someone is endeavouring to give an interpretation, or a kerbside legal opinion, that person will refer to this debate to find out the intention of the Parliament at the time the legislation was considered. 
-This happens on a number of occasions. He will find out what was in the mind of the Parliament and the Minister at that time. Although  Senator Missen  may push that to one side as of no consequence my experience is that lawyers do go back to the originating debate. For that reason it is the responsibility of the Minister to answer the questions raised in this debate. Otherwise, we will continue to ask the Minister about this clause, he will refuse and we will make no progress at all. We will then come to a stalemate. The Minister can get upset. We can move to report progress. There may be sufficient numbers on our side to obtain that result. Perhaps there would not be. The Opposition may be left in a position of maintaining its criticism and forcing the Government into a position in which it has to force its legislation through without proper consideration. I do not think that the Minister has that in mind. 
He should answer a question similar to the one that was asked by  Senator Sibraa.  Following on from  Senator Sibraa  's question I would like to know: If the Army were called in to solve an industrial dispute and to maintain continuity of supply in an important area where members of a trade union object and picket and frustrate the armed Services, would that bring the union under the surveillance of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? I am not asking for a legal opinion. There was a possibility of that in the air traffic controllers' dispute prior to the last one. There were threats that the Army may be sent in to take over the functions of the air traffic controllers. If the union involved decided to frustrate that action in some way would that union come under the surveillance of security under this legislation? Surely the Minister can give some sort of explanation as to whether that is a possibility. He may argue that it is a hypothetical question and elect not to answer it. All our questions at this stage on this Bill are hypothetical because it is not enacted. The Minister ought to be able to give satisfaction to the Senate. Otherwise this questioning will drag on and on and the frustration will build up and the legislation will not  bedealtwithinaspiritofco-operation.Itakeit  that the Minister is going to refuse to give any information whatsoever. I ask whether the Minister is going to refuse to give any further information on this clause. 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware that three field officers who were retrenched from the Aboriginal Legal Service in Dubbo on 9 February this year and who were able to produce a letter from the DirectorGeneral of Social Services confirming that retrenchment have been refused unemployment benefit in spite of an appeal tribunal recommendation in their favour? Will the Minister have these cases reconsidered urgently as the men have been given no reasons in writing for the refusal and have had no payment since 9 February? If these allegations are true will the Minister endeavour to see that her Department behaves in a more humane way in this area? 
I wish to make a personal explanation in respect of comments made by the Leader of the Government. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. I do not think I am the only senator who has raised the matter of the curtailment of Question Time by the Leader of the Government in the absence of a motion before the Chair. As a result of our remarks, the Leader of the Government and the two Whips had some discussion and the matter is still under consideration. Arising from that discussion with the Leader was a suggestion that we should take some proposals to the next meeting of the Standing Orders Committee. That is my recollection of what happened, and therefore I ask the Leader to accept that I have shown an interest in this matter. The problem is to be taken before the Standing Orders Committee and suggestions will be brought forward on it. In the meantime, the end of Question Time is still a matter for some future debate in this place. 
I do not think the Government Whip,  Senator Baume,  would have got into the mess that he got himself into if he had had the benefit of my advice. Some discussion took place between  Senator Chipp  and  Senator Baume.  Some misunderstanding arose because of that discussion which spread across to the Opposition. We were told one thing by  Senator Chipp  which obviously was not quite correct. All I can say is that it is necessary for the Opposition Whip and also the manager of Opposition business, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  to be fully conversant with the procedures to be followed or what arrangements are made, within reason of course, with the minority party. 
I think that the problem was that  Senator Chipp  gave far too much advance information to the Government on how he was going to proceed. The Government promptly took advantage of all that information which he handed out and took necessary measures to stifle him. There is no doubt that  Senator Chipp  was stifled in his attempt to bring forward a proposition. I would say that that is his fault. If I had been in his place I certainly would not have given the Government all the information he gave. He came away from that discussion apparently with some sense of agreement. This seems to get back to my original proposition; if I had had any part in the consultation  Senator Baume  would not have been in the state he  found himself in  earlier today. 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate accept that there is a conflict between the position taken by  Senator Webster  in answer to questions asked by  Senator Puplick  and  Senator Wriedt  and his own statement made in answer to a question asked by  Senator Missen  concerning the future of the Great Barrier Reef? Since there is now a conflict, will he reassure the Senate that the Commonwealth Government has not ceded or does not intend to cede to the State Government certain responsibilities which will place the Great Barrier Reef at the mercy of the Queensland Premier- a person who was responsible for the destruction of another important part of our heritage, the Belle Vue Hotel? Will he give the Senate an assurance that no power has been given to the Premier of Queensland which will enable him to take similar action in relation to the Great Barrier Reef? 

 -Mr President, may I get an assurance from the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick ) that this report will be debated at an early time. Could the Minister give that assurance at this moment and not at a later stage? 
-Some unfair remarks have been made. I regret that  Senator McLaren  did not continue at this stage to make the remarks that I think are important to this subject. I believe he is entitled to speak. Honourable senators are now under some sort of constraint by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Carrick). 
-The Leader of the Government says that it is not true. Today, for the first time in a very long time, the Whips failed to come to an agreement. If that agreement had been reached it would have cost us another 20 minutes to debate a very important matter of urgency. The agreement could have been that the leading  speaker  in the debate took 20 minutes and the subsequent two speakers on the Opposition side took 1 5 minutes each. The Leader of the Government took it upon himself to make the decision that that should not be permitted. I think the Leader needs to be reminded that there are a variety of forms by which the Opposition can take up the time of the Senate or recover the time that was lost by his failure to allow the Whips to come to an agreement. 
That is the clear position. For the first time in many months the Whips failed to reach an agreement. Opposition senators can retaliate only by using the forms of the Senate to debate fully whatever matter they wish to debate without any constraint whatsoever. The Government, therefore, will need to use whatever device it can discover to bring its legislation to an early conclusion. That is the position to which we have been brought. All sorts of motions come before the Senate to allow business to proceed. This is one of them. We will continue to debate these motions and inform the Government that without our co-operation the passage of its legislation through this place will be difficult. I regret having to say this but it is fairly clear that agreement between the Government parties and the Opposition will be difficult to reach from now on. 
I  wish to speak briefly to the motion to explain why  Senator Douglas  McClelland felt obliged to call across the chamber. We did come to an agreement. Apparrently  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Rae  had discussed the matter that was to come before the Senate. It was also arranged with me and we came to an agreement that  Senator Rae  should proceed in the way that he has proceeded. For that reason we did not obstruct him, although I believe  Senator Douglas  McClelland was tempted to do so. I make these few remarks to indicate that there is possibility for agreement at these levels and that it does facilitate the passage of legislation and the program of this Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
Briefly, may I suggest that because of the position in which many Australians find themselves at present this matter be brought on for debate at an early time. The rights of these citizens are limited. This report is a vehicle which will enable us to debate the serious situation in which they find themselves. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Carrick)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
1 wish to speak to the motion. We have evidence before us again of a desire by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  not to allow debate on important matters. In normal circumstances we would have come to an agreement to limit the debate on these matters and to continue it at some future date- perhaps on Thursday during the time allotted for General 
Business or at another time. However, because of the breakdown in the arrangements today, many of us on this side of the chamber believe that we should take this opportunity to speak when a matter is before the Senate and not at some future date. Perhaps the message is getting across to the Leader of the Government in the Senate that this place can run only by arrangement, agreement and consensus. If he has not already appreciated that fact, he may do so before tomorrow and we may get back to the understanding that we have more time available for debate. 

 Senator Carrick commented earlier today that the Government had been very tolerant of the Opposition. I thought that he made those remarks in a rather patronising way- almost as if the Opposition had never co-operated in the program of the Senate. He also said that the gag had been applied by the Government very seldom during his period of leadership and during the period prior to that. I point out to him that the reason the application of the gag has not been necessary has been because of the cooperation of the Opposition in supporting some reasonable passage of the legislation. I must make it clear that the failure to come to some arrangement on the urgency debate meant that an honourable senator who wished to speak in that debate was excluded from doing so. The Leader of the Government may not be aware that this same honourable senator was excluded from debates on three previous occasions due to the gag being moved in urgency debates. We accepted the situation then because we managed, by arrangement, to get three speakers on either side. lt seems to me that we must press the point that this place cannot run effectively unless the party Whips are allowed to come to some reasonable agreement as to who participates in debates. The Whips are the only people who know what is the position of each honourable senator and his participation in debates in this place. For some time the Whips have allowed honourable senators on both sides of the chamber to take part in debates. There has been an agreement by honourable senators to cut down their debating time, even on broadcast days, to allow for a fuller participation in debates. I speak at this stage to impress upon the Government, and especially the Leader of the Government, that there are many times we can enter a debate to put our point of view on matters which will take up far more time than the time which the Leader of the Government may save by being obstructive. If I may say so, he was definitely obstructive today. 
-by leave -I want to put to both leaders that the Whips are the people most concerned with the easy and reasonable passage of legislation through this place. It is not possible to arrive at a watertight agreement. What is arrived at is an understanding, and that understanding has worked well in the past. It is not the Whips' prerogative to control what happens during the Committee stage of Bills. Might I suggest to the Senate that if it had looked carefully at this complex legislation, which derived from three years of investigation by a royal commission, it would have sent the Bill to a committee for discussion, as it has done with other complex legislation. The committee could have discussed it, come to some consensus, and sent it back to the Senate. What is happening, of course, is that the Committee of the Whole is carrying out the work of one of the standing committees, which should have been given responsibility for the legislation. 
What the Leader Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  has said is correct. The Senate is to be commended for its scrutiny of the legislation. The scrutiny has been lengthy and may be even lengthier. Nevertheless, it is necessary to allow the Whips to come to some agreement so that the rights of other honourable senators not involved in the debate on this legislation will not be diminished in any way. I can assure the Government that, provided the Whips are allowed to come to some understanding on how they should proceed, we will not have to sit into the second week in June. In fact it is quite possible by arrangement on both sides to facilitate the passage of the legislation as we come to a close. We have done so previously. We have succeeded in coming to such an agreement on innumerable occasions over the past two or three years. The procedures and the atmosphere of co-operation break down- may I chide both leaders herewhen they begin to interfere with the work and the responsibility of the Whips. Having said that, at a reasonable time both leaders, may care to answer that charge. Nevertheless, let me put it fairly clearly to them: The Whips are in a better position to understand the needs of honourable senators on both sides of the chamber, and I think that they can carry out their duties effectively without the occasional advice and direction they may receive from the top. 

 -Mr President, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I do not intend to engage in a diatribe as was suggested in relation to  Senator Walsh  by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  in moving the adjournment of the previous debate. I rather resent that description of what  Senator Walsh  said previously. The statement which has been put down concerns the greater availability of the flag to various organisations. I believe that 

 Senator Button would like to say something about this later on. Looking briefly at the statement, I do not welcome the possibility of having added responsibilities in presenting the Australian flag. At the present time that duty is fairly onerous without including a variety of other organisations. I anticipate that many honourable senators will spend most of their time presenting flags to the organisations which are listed here. 
I notice that McDonalds and other commercial firms have not been included, although they make free use of the Australian flag. Nevertheless, the list is impressive. I would suggest for the convenience of honourable senators and members of the other place that we should be given at least two dozen flags at a time so that we can present them as we go about our electorates, without our having to make individual applications for these flags. It would mean that we would be able to hand them out with ease wherever we went and take the fullest advantage of the publicity and credit that we would thus gain. 
-Will the Minister for Science and the Environment clearly define the role of the consultative committee in relation to the Great Barrier Reef Authority? Can he assure the Senate that the decisions of the committee are not binding on the Authority? Is the Authority able to resist attempts by the Department of National Development through its membership of the committee to dismember the area of the Great Barrier Reef and so to allow the entry of oil exploration interests into the area? 
Let me make it clear that no arrangements were made between the Whips. I refute what  Senator Harradine  said about a cosy arrangement. 
There is something a little different about the circumstances of this motion. It has to be connected to the debate on the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill which everyone here considers to be important and which has come under very close scrutiny. 
-No. If I may say so,  Senator Missen  yesterday participated in a careful and responsible way in the debate on the Bill in the Committee stage. It is as much for the honorable senator's benefit as it is for anybody else that the Bill is to be debated in this way. We have to look at this motion in the light of the importance of the ASIO Bill. It is also important that the House of Representatives debates the Bill. It is possible that the Bill will come back to s in some amended form. The motion has been viewed by the Opposition in that light. I agree with  Senator Cavanagh  that in normal circumstances great resistance would be offered to the curtailment of discussion on items of general business. No arrangement has been made. It has just been felt that in view of the important debate that is proceeding on the ASIO Bill, we should devote as much time as is possible to it now rather than-- 
The honourable senator can decide it if he wishes. 
I can express only my own view on this matter. If we followed normal procedure, we would strenuously oppose the curtailment of the time allowed for General Business. Perhaps I have imposed my view on other honourable senators. I regret that. But I think that most of us would accept the need to return to the debate on the ASIO Bill as soon as possible. 
I am encouraged by the fact that we have reached clause 90 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill to enter into this debate for the first time. I find this clause to be a stupid and dangerous one. In my view it ought to be deleted altogether. What we are doing here is creating a precedent which I do not doubt various State governments will follow in legislation which controls their special police. I would not be surprised if  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  promptly follows the lead given by this Parliament and introduces such a measure to protect the bully boys whom he employs from time to time. In particular, I attract the attention of honourable senators to certain correspondence which was published in the Brisbane newspapers. It indicated that 30 or 40 special policemen took part in a special rally of people in Brisbane who were opposed to the Bjelke-Petersen Government in order to intimidate those who were participating in the rally. They took all sorts of photographs of those who participated in the rally and they objected strongly when certain protesters that day began to take photographs of them. Under this sort of legislation, if it is introduced in that State Parliament, those who took photographs of the special police in order to identify them in any proceedings that were likely to take in the courts, would be guilty of an offence. 
I take it that this provision would apply to anyone who wanted to take any action. Would not that be so? If that is not the case, I may be drawing too long a bow. Nevertheless, I believe that if a member of ASIO, by his activities as an agent of ASIO, is revealed in any way, then he has blown his cover. If he blows his cover, as soon as that is known the better. The security service would naturally take the course that is necessary, that is, transfer him or place him somewhere else. But the organisation ought not to try to protect itself in this way. It seems to be a stupid and dangerous clause to be inserting in order to protect those who may be careless enough to disclose their operations. 
Let us suppose that I am attending a meeting of people who may be opposed to the Government of the day. It has been my experience over the years that ASIO generally operates in support of the Government of the day, especially when it is a conservative government. If at that meeting I happened to notice a person whom I knew to be a member of ASIO and I happened to mention it at the meeting in protection of the people who happened to be there, I would find myself caught by this clause. If I happened to say anything like: 'Let us be careful of what we say at this meeting because I believe that person to be a member of ASIO', I would be caught by this clause. If I were to say that at that meeting, I would probably be convicted of an offence which attracts a $1,000 fine or imprisonment for one year. That offence would disqualify me under the Constitution. Even if I were merely convicted of that offence and the fine were only $5 and the gaol penalty only 14 days, under the Constitution I would forfeit my place in this Parliament. I find this clause to be a draconian one, to use the term that my colleague used. 
-He used the word draconic'. As a Greek, I would say that it would be more correct to use the word 'draconian'. This clause seems quite unnecessary. I would suggest that it could be dropped completely and ASIO would not be disadvantaged in any way. 
Let me give another example where an ASIO agent will disclose his identity, especially when he is required to carry out an assessment of a person who is employed by a Minister. Honourable senators know as well as I do that when a security check is made of a person employed, for example, by the Minister for Defence, the person concerned is checked through the referees which that person has given. We have had example after example where ASIO agents have gone to referees to check the personal history of the person who is employed. He discloses his identity. Immediately he carries out that check he discloses his identity as an ASIO agent. The referee, having been approached by an ASIO agent, is placed in the position where he cannot disclose the fact that he has been approached. It seems to me highly undesirable to have a clause of this sort in the Bill. Although I may be going against the proposition that my own side is putting the best way to deal with this clause seems to be to drop it altogether, including that provision which talks about parliamentary privilege. Even if that clause were dropped, along with the amendment, the privilege of this Parliament would cover any disclosure which is made within this Parliament. 
So I think that what  Senator Puplick  said was irrelevant. Even if the introduction of such amendment were accepted, the privilege of this Parliament would not be affected in any way. However, I return to my original proposition which is that it is dangerous to introduce such a clause. It would set an example to the States to introduce such clauses to cover their special branches of the police. It seems to be highly unnecessary to protect ASIO in such a childish way. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the following reports: 
Financial report relating to the operation of air services by Ansett Transport Industries for the year ended I July 1978. 
Report of the Australian National Airlines Commission 1977-78. 
Report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled: National Highways Linking Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra- Third Report: Canberra Connections 1979". 
Report prepared by the Department of Transport entitled: The Transport Planning and Research Program: Report of Progress to 30 June 1978". 
The financial report relating to the operation of air services by Ansett Transport Industries for the year ended 1 July 1978 needs careful scrutiny by the Senate because it appears that some of the financial difficulties that faced Ansett are affecting the expansion of Trans-Australia Airlines and the improvement of its facilities, to the detriment of air travel in this country. I suggest that we ought to be looking at that report fairly soon in consideration of General Business. I think that is where the report will finish up. We seek an early debate to estimate the limitations which are imposed by these financial difficulties to which I referred. It is important that we discuss this report also because at the same time we may be able to discuss the private opinion expressed by one honourable senator that TAA should be disposed of in some way. 'Sold' has been the word used. 
I take the opportunity of suggesting to the honourable senator that next time he makes a statement of this sort he should make it in such a way that it is clear that it is his personal opinion. 
The Queensland reporting of the statement seemed to indicate -  
Yes. There is a problem with communication. The Queensland reports seemed to indicate that the recommendation was coming from a standing committee of the Senate and that some of us on this side of the Senate were involved. I am in enough trouble in Queensland without being lumbered with having been a party to a decision made by one of our standing committees that we should sell TAA. 1 suggest that we get that matter cleared up as quickly as possible by way of debate. So that the matters can go onto the Notice Paper, I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I take the opportunity to express the point of view that when an honourable senator seeks leave to continue his remarks, especially on broadcast day, that should be the end of the matter. The practice has developed of honourable senators rising and seeking leave to speak after such leave has been granted. If that practice is to be extended the Whips may as well go home because the matter is being taken completely out of their hands. Honourable senators could then proceed to debate matters merely by seeking leave. I would suggest that honourable senators should be aware of the situation and should make the necessary arrangements to speak to a matter before any honourable senator seeks leave to continue his remarks. The practice of seeking leave to make speeches after leave has been given to another honourable senator to continue his remarks later opens us to a procedure which could be to our disadvantage. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- Rather than risk the Whips going home, as was foreshadowed by  Senator Georges,  I move: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an Order of the Day for the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave- It is important that there should be an expression of opinion from this side of the Senate on the program which has just been announced. Therefore I speak to it both for myself and in case other members of the Opposition might also like to express an opinion upon it. The program that has been announced for the next two weeks is one that could have been achieved had it not been for the recent sudden intrusion by the Government of some extraordinary legislation by way of a mini-Budget. Accordingly, it is too much to expect the Opposition to take kindly to the introduction of such draconian- I have been told that is the correct use of the word- or draconic legislation without - 
-According to the dictionary, both uses are correct. To return to the serious matter that is before the Senate: The Leader of the Government  (Senator Carrick)  has lightly put before us a certain program and expects to achieve a certain amount of progress concerning it each day. Naturally the Opposition- being not likely to behave as have oppositions of the past when we were in government- will co-operate as much as it can. But it is impossible to co-operate in the face of obstruction. I refer to the obstruction of which the Government has been guilty in introducing legislation which allegedly it considers to be of an urgent nature and which, if urgent, is so only because of its own fault. It is legislation which could have been withheld until the normal time for presentation of the Budget. Instead, the Government has imposed upon the nation a Budget in mid-stream, as one might term it. 
It is being responsible after having been very irresponsible in its application of an economic theory which has come to be known as Fraserism, which is exactly what it is. Government supporters have had imposed upon them- to the cost of the whole nation- an economic philosophy and direction which are those of a single person. At question time today we were berated with references to Labor's past. Labor was in office quite some time ago and I would have thought that by now the Leader of the Government would have forgotten in some measure the problems which the Australian Labor Party is alleged to have created and would have been willing to consider the problems that this Government has created. The situation in which it finds itself is exactly the same. We are facing a $4,000 m deficit, a deficit which, when Labor was in office, was described as reprehensible. When this Government is in office it is described as a result of the responsible application of the economic theory which it considers to be correct. 
Nevertheless, I am getting somewhat away from the Minister's statement concerning the program of the Senate. The Government has itself made it difficult to fulfil its program within the next two weeks. It has asked the Opposition to limit in some way discussion of matters that it considers urgent, so that the passage of Government legislation may be facilitated. In the face of what might have been thought to be a mild statement but was in reality a provocative one, we can merely respond that we will do our best to comply with the program, but do not wish in any way to concede any of our rights of debate. I have expressed that opinion in the hope that perhaps it will be reinforced by other honourable senators on this side. 
-I wish to raise a matter of privilege. I believe it important that I do so in view of the ruling that has just been agreed to, which binds honourable senators not to speak, to report on or to use terms which have been used outside this Parliament. I move: 
That the matter of the ruling of the Acting Deputy President be referred to the Standing Committee of Privileges. 
The decision today has seriously affected the privileges of an honourable senator,  Senator McLaren.  The reason he has been inhibited is that he was prevented from referring to the  Illawarra Mercury,  which on its front page used  the words ' Lies, Lies, Lies! ' 
Deputy President objected. I ruled that it was unparliamentary to quote even from the page on which those words appeared. 
Of course one realises that the absurdity of the situation is that in this place, even if I wish to refer - 

 -Mr President, I direct my remarks to you and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  because I believe that you have a joint responsibility in this matter. When the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  answered the question which was put to him by  Senator Archer,  I raised a point of order. The point of order was that the question had been placed by the Minister. In effect it was not a question without notice. I asked for the paper to be tabled and I now have in front of me a copy of that document which the Minister tabled. It is headed 'Question' and it reads:  ls the Minister aware of a recent claim by the Opposition spokesman for urban and regional development,  Mr Uren,  that housing loan finance was at a critical all time low, making it extremely difficult to obtain access to home ownership? 
In view of the claims by the honourable member for Reid would the Minister provide details of the levels of finance available for housing and the levels of home ownership in Australia? 
That is essentially the same question as that which was asked by  Senator Archer.  I find it strange that on the document which the Minister tabled a copy of that question appears and following that question on the same sheet is the answer. 
It is surprising to me that the Minister is not in any way embarrassed by the fact that we now know that he is in the habit as we suspected of distributing questions for which he has prepared answers to honourable members. He has done that consistently and it has raised a considerable amount of comment. It has allowed him to answer at length questions which are prepared by his Department. 
It is not a distortion,  Senator Walters.  The question and the answer are on the document which has been tabled by the Minister. I would say that this is a blatant misuse of Question Time. 
I would go even further and say that it is a fraudulent misuse of Question Time. I think that this matter ought to be taken up by the Senate Standing Orders Committee. Perhaps this can be initiated by you,  Mr President,  in order to prevent this sort of thing reoccurring. In fairness to other Government Ministers, I say that it seems that  Senator Webster  alone is responsible for this sort of behaviour. 
In my experience it seems that he alone is responsible for this sort of behaviour. He has endeavoured to build up his reputation at Question Time through the work of other people. We have evidence that today he handed out a question to which he read a prepared answer. I think the practice ought to stop. I believe that the Leader of the Government in the Senate has a responsibility to see that one of his Ministers does not misuse Question Time in this way. I say also that, if he is to engage in this practice, it is blatantly stupid of him to have his staff prepare documents of this sort. An honourable senator was bound at some stage to ask for the document to be tabled- as it was today. He has even the question prepared. On the same piece of paper he has the question and the answer which he was to give. I see a look of puzzlement on the face of the Government Whip. 
-Then let us hear the full story. 
I must admit to some nervousness in entering into the debate at this stage, having in mind what happened earlier. To make certain that I was not in any way at fault in the use of expressive words, I took the opportunity to look at Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice.  At page 445 there is an appendix of unparliamentary expressions. I find that I cannot use such words as blackguard, blether- whatever that means- cad, calumny, corrupt, coward, criminal, dishonest, dog, duplicity, guttersnipe, hooligan, humbug, hypocrites, impertinence, impudence, jackass, lousy, malignant, murderer, personal honour- in a certain context- -pharisees, pup, puppy, rat, slanderer, slander, stool pigeon, swine, traitor, treason, vicious, villains and wicked. I would say that is a rather short list and I was encouraged by that. I thought I certainly would not get myself into trouble if I did not use any of those terms. But unfortunately I referred to Odgers'  Australian Senate Practice  and I found that there are about four pages of unparliamentary expressions, which limits me considerably. 
It is only a guide, but according to  May  it is the context in which they are used and their acceptability depends on the sense and temper in which they are used. I think if we had looked at that a little more carefully before, we might not have been so unjust to  Senator McLaren  as we have been. I am not prepared to read all the unparliamentary terms in 'Odgers' ', but I do think we are a little over-sensitive in this place. I suggest that we should remember our own failings when we pull points of order against our opponents. I would have thought that the point of order pulled today was one upon which the person who raised it should have reflected; otherwise we would not be in the position now of being hesitant about moving a further amendment to the proposition. 
I know you are not moved by it. You ought not to be disturbed by it. The only problem is that you have disturbed honourable senators on this side of the chamber. You have taken action which has depleted our number by one excellent and very effective senator in this place. I have found that Government members have not been able to deal with him in the past, but they have dealt with him today. He will remember that. I suppose that in the turbulent debates that will take place in the next two or three weeks  Senator McLaren  will take a lead.  Senator Walsh,  on behalf of the Opposition, moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1978-79. The amendment has already been circulated and spoken to. However, in view of the debate which developed today I remind the Senate of the terms which were used against Ministers of the Labor Government and suggest that perhaps the Opposition needs to strengthen its amendment. I propose to do so by moving a further amendment which has been circulated. I move: 
At the end of the amendment add: 
The continuing incompetence, evasion, deceit and duplicity of the Prime Minister and his Ministers as exemplified in the long list of broken promises to the 
Australian electorate and the scandal of Medibank; and  (0  The Prime Minister's failure to maintain proper con trol over the activity of his Ministers and Government to the detriment of the Australian nation and people.'. 
In view of what has happened over the past two or three days I would say that those terms are rightfully used as an emphasis of what has happened in this place, that the Prime Minister, having imposed upon the people of this country his own quaint economic theory, will find that theory overturned. Whenever he imposes some new measure he finds that it acts in reverse, that what he intends is not achieved. He has now found himself and the Government in the position where the deficit is running at $4,000m. The estimated deficit has blown out and the Government has to take measures to counter what has happened. In so doing the Government has invited the terms which I have used in the amendment: Deceitful, evasive and incompetent. I have also used the term duplicity, because the people of Australia, time and again, have not really been taken into the confidence of the Government. The Government has evaded telling the truth to the people. If I were to now say that the Government lied to the people, would you object to that,  Mr President? 
-Of course, I am not about to say that, but I am tempted to do so because it would be an accurate description of what has happened over the past few weeks. (  Quorum formed)  I take it that in the last 10 minutes I have succeeded in cancelling from the record some unparliamentary terms. I take it that if I use unparliamentary terms and the Government fails to bring me to order it would cancel out any future action on those terms. How is it that Government senators employ such double standards? Today action was taken against an honourable senator for referring to a newspaper report which mentioned lies. Government senators reacted so sensitively that they moved to the point of throwing him out of this place. I am out of order at the present time because I am referring to a decision of the Senate earlier. However, I have been forced to speak about the position because the standards of honourable senators opposite are such that they will use that action against a senator; but when I provoke them- I have used the very terms which were objected to earlier- they are afraid of moving against me. I will say it again. The Prime Minister has been deceitful. 
-We are faced with a strange situation. If I speak to a substantive motion I can say whatever I want to, but if I speak in a normal debate I cannot. That is patently absurd.  Mr President,  that ruling was thrust upon you today. In the normal flow of debate you would not have taken objection to the terms used. However, the Government has now decided that it should gag honourable senators on this side of the chamber by raising points of order against senators who in the normal course of debate tonight refer to an article which speaks of lies. But at the present time I can call the Prime Minister deceitful. I would not normally do this but because I am speaking to a substantive motion I am permitted to do so. 
I will explain just how deceitful the Government and the Prime Minister have been in introducing the mini-Budget, as it is called. The Prime Minister can be accused of having lied to the electorate. He has deceived the electorate because he promised that Medibank would not be touched. Yet Medibank has been completely dismantled by the action of this Government a few nights ago. The Prime Minister has been deceitful. He promised that pensions would not be touched. Yet pensions are not to be indexed. Regarding taxation, he promised that the surcharge of 1 .5 cents in the dollar would be removed. He kept that promise. He removed the 1 .5 per cent surcharge but he was deceitful in introducing a 2.5 per cent surcharge. That is a subtlety that does not escape the Australian electorate. Each term that I have used tonight is justified when describing the actions of the Prime Minister, his Government and Ministers. I take great pleasure in what I am doing tonight because today I saw an action which I think is unforgivable. An honourable senator was thrown out of the House because of a minor error. But here I am offending in principle every one of the Standing Orders. 
I am not twisting the situation. I am forcing home to honourable senators just how ridiculous they have been and how absurd they have made this place. On a piffling matter Government senators took action against an honourable senator and threw him out of this place. And here I stand using term after term which offends the spirit of the Standing Orders yet nothing can be done about it because I am speaking to part of a substantive-- 
On the basis of that discussion there was a debate in this place which I think all honourable senators, other than  Senator Rae,  would recall. The question of whether a newspaper article which contained offensive words in the same context as those being uttered by a senator were in breach of the Standing Orders, and the reference you made,  Mr President,  to a ruling of an earlier occupant of the chair, were then referred to the Privileges Committee. The Senate now has before it a substantive motion which contains different words, which likewise offend  Senator Rae.  But it is quite a different matter from the matter which was dealt with by the Senate this afternoon. 
No  Senator shall  reflect upon any Vote of the Senate, except Tor the purpose of moving that such Vote be rescinded. 
I suggest to you,  Senator Georges,  that you should bear in mind the provisions of that Standing Order. 

 -Mr President, you tempt me to move that we rescind the action which took place earlier in the day. 
I can move-- 
-Yes, but I want to get it clear what your ruling means. If I wished to do so- I was not aware of this; perhaps I should have been- I could have moved for a recision of the action - 
Why not. If the honourable senator-- 
If the honourable senator is prepared to keep the House after 10.30 or 1 1 o'clock tonight, by all means, we will debate the matter until the early hours of the morning. I suggest that the honourable senator should not threaten the Opposition or try to force us into taking action which we as tolerant people are not prepared to take. However, the honourable senator has given me an idea. Perhaps we should debate this matter in the adjournment debate and move for the recision of the order. But the honourable senator forgot, when he took a point of order, that if the position was as he stated itthat it was a matter to be referred to the Privileges Committee-  Senator McLaren  really ought to be still here until such time as the matter is determined. I have endeavoured to show that common sense ought to prevail in the Senate. 
Earlier it was ruled- I am not canvassing the ruling; I accept it- that by way of debate we cannot use the terms in question. Yet I read all the items of unparliamentary expressions in Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice.  In a normal debate I would not be allowed to do that according to the ruling today. 
The continuing  imcompetence  evasion, deceit and duplicity of the Prime Minister and his Ministers as exemplified in the long list or broken promises to the Australian electorate and the scandal or Medibank: and 
The Prime Minister's failure to maintain proper control over the activity of his Ministers and Government to the detriment of the Australian nation and people. 
In support of that proposition, which, in a previous debate might have been negatived by a point of order or by some assessment by you,  Mr President-  I accept your control of the Senate and the proper way in which you have conducted its affairs- the honourable senator has advanced a number of notions. He is simply putting for the benefit of honourable senators a proposition which ought to be examined. In that respect, all he is doing is putting before the Senate a number of matters which are related to the proposition. 

 Mr President, you have already accepted the terms of the substantive motion. In that respect, it seems to me that the point of order taken by  Senator Rae  has no validity.  Senator Georges  is proceeding in his own way, in the way of the Parliament and in the way of parliamentary debate, to advance his amendment. I suggest to you that in that case he is not offending you in your office. 
I regret that I have been diverted from this excellent amendment. 
I suggest that that interjection is unparliamentary, according to Odgers'  Australian Senate Practice.  I ask that the honourable senator withdraw the remark.  Mr Odgers  says that such an interjection is out of order. It is unparliamentary. 
-One has to be careful what terms one uses in this place. I do not want to press the matter any further. The amendment is self-explanatory in two ways: The Opposition can drive home to the Government in exact terms such as incompetence, evasion, deceit and duplicity, exactly what it is and what it stands for not only as a group. Apparently, under the substantive amendment that I have moved I can do this individually, and I have done so. I do not think that the Government ought to accept what 1 am saying without some rebuttal. It seems to me that from now on, following the forms of the Senate, substantive motion after substantive motion should be reintroduced in order to expose the Government for what it is- a fraud and a failure. That is not part of the amendment. Nevertheless, as part of a substantive debate I can call honourable senators opposite frauds and failures. It seems to me that a silence has fallen upon this place, because I appear to have found a device which makes me immune from the Standing Orders. 
I wish to raise a matter which  Senator Douglas  McClelland hinted at. It concerns the use by the judiciary of cars which apparently are provided with a driver. I would like an explanation. I am attracted to this item of expenditure by an article in the  Age  on 24 May 1 979. 1 am referring to the questions asked at the Estimates committee. The article in the  Age  stated that the subject of judges' use of cars had become such a touchy one in  Senator Durack  's Department that any request for information on judges' expenses usually sends people hiding under the table'. If it has reached this situation then the matter is serious indeed. I know that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is representing the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and perhaps cannot give me a direct answer, but perhaps her advisers can. 
In asking this question I am supported by a complaint which I passed on in general terms to the Attorney-General. It concerns a judge of the Family Court of Australia in Brisbane. The judge not only had taken it upon himself to accept the car as one of the privileges of office but also had decided he should use the car in a general way and transport his son across town to school.  Senator Durack  has indicated that that practice has ceased. If judges consider these cars to be part of their entitlement, how have they reached this conclusion? Is it that when they are appointed to their position they are told that their remuneration will be a certain amount plus free use of a manned car? I imagine that the provision of a car for a judge of the High Court would be justifiable. Surely there must be a cut-off point where judges lower down the judicial scale are not entitled to a car and service of the nature revealed at the Estimates committee. 
It should not be the responsibility of any senator, a complaint having been made, to raise the matter with the Attorney-General. It becomes a complaint that one could use politically if one desired. One could raise this matter on the floor of the Senate and name the judge concerned. Perhaps the judge had been misled in relation to his entitlements. Perhaps all judges have been misled. The article also stated that investigations were taking place. I think that  Senator McClelland  referred to this matter. Perhaps the Minister at the Estimates committee also referred to it. I wonder whether I could have a little more information about this matter because it can be an expensive outlay, especially when we consider the number of judges involved. The article stated that the practice became customary for all seven High Court judges soon after Federation. I do not question this practice forjudges at that level. But now it also applies to 42 Family Court judges, 30 Federal Court of Australia judges and the  President  and commissioners of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
I agree with  Senator Tate's  view that travel between work and home in a judge's own city- as distinct from when he is travelling away from home on duty- should be at the judge's expense, just as it is to any worker. Can the minister give us some comfort and state that this practice will be brought under control? We know that these facilities are available for judges outside their own city. But if they are to persist with these practices in their own city they ought not to abuse them. The facilities should be used only in the direct movement from home to court and back again. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
If an explanation of  Senator Maunsell's  motion has not been given, perhaps he could give some reason why it is desired that the Canberra Showground Trust be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
-Perhaps the Committee of the Whole should have the benefit of that report. 
I take this opportunity to ask the Leader of the Government a question on Vietnam. Since he is so concerned about the refugees who flow from Vietnam- a concern, if it is honest, which is shared by the Oppositionwould it not be to the advantage of the Vietnamese if the Government were to re-establish aid to Vietnam in order to make conditions there much more satisfactory than they are at present? Is it not hypocritical for the Leader of the Government to make such statements against Vietnam when the Government has ceased aid to Vietnam? Will the Government not accept some responsibility for the situation which leads to many Vietnamese refugees being drowned at sea? 

 - Mr President, 1 wish to attract your attention to the front of the report of the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council- it is not a large report- where there is a list of changes to the report. I thought that, being a scientific report, it would have been subject to the scrutiny which would have avoided the addition of a substantial roneoed list of corrections. I may appear to be raising a trivial point, but it is a scientific report and there is no room in it for such last minute corrections. The correction which brings the whole of the report under question involves line 14 of page 55. The list of errata states: 
For 'very high ' read' relatively high '. 
Line14 of page 55 reads: 
Pit 6 is in an area of very high surface plutonium contamination . . . 
By attaching the errata list, the authors want to delete 'very high surface plutonium contamination' and to insert 'relatively high surface plutonium contamination'. I ask the Senate: How can merit be given to a scientific document of this sort if they wish to make a very important change of this type? Would the Mi nister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  be prepared to seek from those who are responsible for the report the reasons for the change and would he get them to give the Senate some explanation why such an important change should be made? It does throw the whole of the report into question. How can one reduce the importance of that line by this method and suddenly remove the emphasis of 'very high', and insert 'relatively high'. 
Perhaps the appointment of a committee of the Senate is required to take a very close look at this report and question whether it was a rushed report or whether the report was subject to subsequent editing of a scientific nature, not of a literary nature. I raise this matter because I consider it to be important. I think it is a disgrace that the report should be amended in this way after it was printed. It is also a disgrace that the scientific conclusions should be so altered after the report has been printed. 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I add to  Senator Sim's  compassionate remarks concerning refugees from Vietnam. Although I do not know the incident to which he has referred- it involved a statement by a Western Australian Minister- nevertheless it appears that the statement was made. Every honourable senator would dissociate himself from that statement. However, today certain comments have been made which I consider to be inflammatory and which ought not be considered by the officers in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs when dealing with the problem of refugees from Vietnam. I think that it is necessary to accept what the Minister in Vietnam stated. He said that Vietnam was prepared to cooperate in setting up a holding place for Vietnamese refugees and would attempt to stem the flow from that country. This offer should not be discounted or pushed to one side. It should be accepted as a sincere offer. It can be recognised that without the co-operation of the Vietnamese authorities the refugee problem in which we are very much involved cannot be solved. It certainly cannot be solved by the inflammatory answers that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  gave at Question Time today. We must accept some responsibility for the situation which has developed in Vietnam. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Chairman, before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was addressing my remarks to the subject of immigration and ethnic affairs and responding to some comments made by  Senator Sim.  I realise that we have drifted into a second reading situation at the Committee stage of the Appropriation Bills. Nevertheless, having heard  Senator Sim,  I think it is necessary to make a few comments and allow the Committee to proceed. I doubt whether the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  would be able to answer specifically what I am saying, because I am speaking in general terms. However, I believe that we must consider this problem as a serious one. 
Not only did  Senator Sim  complain of moves at a very high level in Western Australia to stop the flow of Vietnamese refugees to Australia but I notice that the Returned Services League State Congress in Queensland is also seeking that Australia refuse the intake of refugees. What  Senator Sim  was putting was that we ought to be viewing this matter with compassion. What I am saying is that the Opposition supports that view, but that our solution is somewhat different from the solution that  Senator Sim  put. He seemed to place all the responsibility for the refugee problem upon the Government of Vietnam. I suggest that it would be easier to stem the flow of refugees if we were to reverse our policy on aid to Vietnam. Rather than bring it to an end in an abrupt manner, we should restore it to former levels. 
Yes, it would. The economic situation in Vietnam is so desperate, because of a variety of climatic conditions, and because of the withdraw by the People's Republic of China of many millions of dollars in economic aid. I think some 80 projects have been brought to a sudden end. Not only did China bring aid to an end, but also the United States of America did not keep the promise given by  President  Nixon of substantial reconstruction aid for Vietnam. 
-What I say is quite correct. 
I would suggest that  Senator Bonner  would be in a better position to judge these matters than most of us. The honourable senator understands the position of people who have been deprived of assistance when they most need it. I am not going to canvass the rights and wrongs of the Vietnam war. What I am suggesting is that now the war is over we should be endeavouring to assist Vietnam to wrench itself free from dependence on two major powers. One major power is the People's Republic of China, which has withdrawn aid, possibly because of Vietnam 's dependence on the Soviet Union. 
The honourable senator would have to do a little more in-depth reading to appreciate the problem. 
If the honourable senator is going to continue his interruption, I am prepared to listen to his interjections and try to answer the questions he is raising. I too was in Vietnam in the middle of last year and I saw at first hand the desperate problems which Vietnam faced in seeking to carry out reconstruction programs while still under pressure from Kampuchea and China on its borders, pressures which were being applied in order to wrench Vietnam away from the influence of the Soviet Union. All I am doing is appealing to  Senator Bonner  to recognise the problems that Vietnam faces and to recognise that it is necessary to improve the economic conditions within Vietnam if we are in any way to stem the flow of refugees fleeing not so much from the ideology of Vietnam, but from the depressed economic conditions which exist there for the variety of reasons that I have given. I suggest that it would be far - 
-This is a debate into which  Senator Bonner  can enter with ease. In four minutes I will be required to resume my seat. If he has a case, let him put it on the record. My case is that we need to assist Vietnam with major reconstruction programs in order to improve the economic situation there. 

 Senator Bonner has referred to a problem which exists in Vietnam with the Hoa people, that is, people of Chinese ethnic background. Those poor people have been caught in a vice. Many of them fled from the Mao Tse-tung revolution to many places. One of the places they fled to was Vietnam. It is rather ironic that the people who caused them to flee in the first place are those who are now coming to their support. That is the irony of the situation. We are faced with that in foreign policy time and time again. The Hoa people were told distinctly that there would be trouble between China and Vietnam over Kampuchea and that they were to realise that if they stayed in Vietnam they were likely to be disadvantaged because of the struggle, because China would be on the side of Kampuchea. They were also told that if they did not leave they would be considered traitors. Under this pressure from China, because of the conflict between China and Vietnam, which is really a conflict between China and the Soviet Union, many hundreds and thousands of people of Chinese origin began to leave Vietnam. Some of them started to go back into China, only to find that that retreat, that refuge, was closed. So they began to flow in another direction. In a rather tragic way, in circumstances which  Senator Sim  explained earlier, they are flowing into the South East Asian area and to Australia. 
What we are saying is that if they come to Australia for compassionate reasons we must accept them. What we are saying is that we cannot possibly allow the flow of refugees from Vietnam or from any other South East Asian country to continue. We must seek the root of the problem and try to correct it. In my view we can correct it if the United States of America, the People's Republic of China and all the South East Asian countries are prepared to assist in the reconstruction of Vietnam. The flow of refugees would then be considerably reduced. 
It is no use coming into this place and making inflammatory statements such as the Leader of the Government  (Senator Carrick)  made today. They do not help. If the compassion which the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  showed to the Vietnamese refugees in the Philippines were to be shown in foreign policy, the larger arena, and if we made an effort to understand that Vietnam needs to be assisted, the problem of the refugees would not be so great and we would not have the RSL demanding that refugees be stopped from entering Australia. By what means are we to stop them? By sinking their boats as they approach? By drowning them off the coast of Australia? What does the RSL expect us to do? Does it expect us to do that? It is impossible for us to do that. If we are to solve the problem, let us seek another means. I have suggested the means. 
I do offer  Senator Kilgariff  an opportunity to carry on his contribution. 
I interjected and called his contribution rubbish, but now that I am on my feet I will have to be responsible and say that he had the right to say what he wished; but it is just as well to get it down on the record, so that many other people will note his comments. 
I find the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  as always, very disarming in the way in which she deals with the business before the House. I suppose that without her charm we would be in greater trouble than we are at the moment. I am not trying to promote her to be appointed as leader in this place, but it would not be a bad idea. Most of the trouble tonight has emerged from the answer that the Leader of the Government  (Senator Carrick)  gave to a question which I believe came from  Senator Sim.  He placed on Vietnam a heavy responsibility for the problem that we face in having to accept refugees from that country. It is just as well that  Senator Carrick  is not the Foreign Minister. I believe that  Mr Peacock  would have a more responsible approach and would give a more reasonable answer to questions such as that posed by  Senator Sim. Senator Bonner  thrust upon us an alleged lack of compassion that was quite contrary to what I had been saying. There needs to be compassion. We realise the difficulties faced by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in dealing with the tremendous number of people who have reached this shore without going through the normal procedures. I think that we have conceded that the Minister and the Government have exercised compassion in this regard, just as the Opposition would have done in similar circumstances. However, what  Senator Bonner  forces me - 
I do not know but I suppose that we could forgive him his emotions at this time of night. I am forced now to say that the Government is selective in its compassion.  Senator Bonner  spoke of a fate worse than death. I point out that this country forced death upon some people close to our shores when it refused to go to their defence and accept them here with the same compassion with which we have accepted Vietnamese refugees. I refer to the Timorese. I did not want to enter this debate. But when we talk about compassion and our points of view, let us look at what Australia did in respect of Timor, how we closed ourselves off because we wished to serve the interests of Indonesia. We sacrificed many thousands of people by so doing. Australia refused to accept refugees from Timor and Portugal in the same way that we have accepted refugees from Vietnam. This shows up the Government as being selective. If the refugees are from a socialist or communist regime, they are accepted easily, readily and in great numbers. If they happen to be refugees from fascist oppression- from Chile or Timor- the barriers go up. 
I did not want to raise this matter tonight. I merely wanted to talk about the Vietnamese problem and how Australia in some way could lessen the need to take large numbers of these people at a time when we are economically depressed and unemployment is high. If that were not the case I suppose Australia could receive great numbers of these people with ease. The Government has endeavoured to have the international community accept its responsibilities. I do not think that anyone could criticise Australia for the responsibility it has accepted. But it is not right for  Senator Bonner  to become personal about the matter. As I said before, perhaps tomorrow he will regret some of the statements that he made. 
I now wish to move from the general situation to deal with particular cases. I want to raise with the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs cases which have been shown up in all their stark reality. I am referring to people who have come to this country, overstayed their visas, come to certain domestic arrangements within Australia, such as having children here, and then suddenly have been deported. I ask the Minister: Why is not the same compassion shown in these individual cases as is shown to many other people? Why is not the compassion shown that was shown to the Vietnamese youngster of 17 years of age who was allowed to enter this country from the Philippines? No objection was raised in that case. Why is it that we should suddenly lose our compassion when it concerns a Greek couple with a child born here or Fijians with children born here? For that matter, in a general sense, there are also Fijian footballers who we bring into this country. We enjoy their skills for a couple of years and then bundle them out of Australia at the end of those two years. In those situations why can we not show our compassion and discretion? Surely that would enhance not only the reputation of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs but also it would enhance Australia 's reputation. 
It is no use saying that if we do it for one person we have to do it for others. Selectively, we have to show our compassion. Occasionally these situations arise. We should exercise what we all consider ourselves to have- Australian compassion, the compassion of an advanced society. Perhaps the Minister for Social Security could express to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs the concern of some honourable senators at the failure to exercise compassionate discretion on behalf of such people when these cases arise. Possibly.  Senator Mulvihill  could cite dozens of cases. If there are that many cases, let us accept the responsibility for them and let us not be cruel or harsh. 
The final matter that I wish to raise involves what I call the misuse of the powers of Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs officers to seize and imprison people who perhaps have overstayed their visas or who are here illegally. We must recognise the pressures that these people face. If I am not supposed to talk about suppressed economic conditions in Vietnam because it happens to be a communist-socialist country and that places it completely out of the realms of consideration, let me talk about Fiji and Papua New Guinea. The depressed economic conditions in those countries have forced people to move to an area of greater economic security- the Australian society. Why should we not recognise the great need, the great drive and the great desire of those people to come here? We put up the barriers and try as much as possible to establish quotas. But occasionally some of the more astute persons by some device escape those barriers. In those cases, let us not oppress these people by snatching them off the street by using warrants to which apparently the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has access. In some cases such people are imprisoned for 48 hours without any consideration of bail. Bail is not available; they are just plucked off the street and thrown into the watch-house where they can be kept for 48 hours before being brought before a magistrate. I say that that is a misuse of a power and it ought to be investigated. That power ought to be taken away from the bureaucrats who misuse it. Fortunately, only a small number of them are involved. However, the small amount of abuse is sufficient to bring all of them into disrepute. 
I also ask the Minister how it is possible for a Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs official to enter a house without the occupant being present, to search that house and to confiscate passports? Is that within the power of an official of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs? I have gone from the general Cases about which I spoke before to these specific cases- the misuse of the powers of immigration officials and the taking away of the freedom of those people who in some way may have misused their entitlement. 1 was going to use the word 'privilege'. If it is not a privilege, it is an entitlement. I seek answers to those questions at this time. I know that the overall problems of the Department are becoming more difficult because of the depressed economic conditions in this country.  Senator Bonner  forced me to say that the Government is selective.  Senator Mulvihill  has shown some evidence of selectiveness against Chilean migrants because they flee not from a communist regime but from a fascist regime. For some reason, the Government does not seem to be able to distinguish between the two or, if it does distinguish, it favours the fascist regime. I find that reprehensible. Having stated the case in respect of these matters, perhaps in the same disarming way as she did previously, the Minister for Social Security can give me a reply. If she cannot at this moment perhaps she can refer them to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The matter that I consider to be most important is that which concerns the treatment of people who have suddenly found themselves in breach of Australian laws and are bundled out of the country in a way that is not acceptable to us. 
It is one minute past twelve and we have quite a deal of business to do. I am certain that the Government is not going to hold the Opposition responsible for the honourable senators being here at this time. If the honourable senators recall, we supported the motion for the adjournment and the Government opposed it. But I imagine that we have quite a deal of questions yet to ask, especially in the area of aboriginal affairs. I wish to ask some questions concerning Applied Ecology Pty Ltd. There are questions which I consider important in view of the speech made by  Senator Keeffe  and the answer given by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  concerning a certain court judgment on the payment of award wages. This would mean that the costs of Applied Ecology would blow out considerably because at present it is paying only training allowances whilst it should be paying award wages. 
The point I am making is that a considerable number of questions remain in relation to group E and then we still have to deal with group F. That means that we could go on till about I o'clock or beyond. Also, a couple of opposition members wish to speak on the adjournment. I say that it would be absurd for us to continue this debate, especially since the Minister has been in charge not only of her own Department but also of  Senator Webster's  Department. I cannot understand why that happened. She is also in charge of  Senator Chaney  's Department, which is the one with which we are dealing at present. Although  Senator Chaney  may be talking to two Ministers from Queensland and it could take some time for him to put his point of view and have it accepted, I would have thought that he would have been here in order to answer for those departments for which he is responsible. I think it is unfair to keep the Minister for Social Security here all night. 
Yes. I do not know whether it would be a fair swap to get  Senator Webster  or, for that matter,  Senator Chaney,  here instead. Nevertheless I think it is fair to put to the  Chairman  that 12 o'clock is late enough. Surely we should wait until tomorrow's sitting to discuss the rest of these Estimates. We have public servants here who have had a very long day, listening to what has gone on. I would imagine that that is more tiring than participating. To encourage the public servants, I inform the Senate that I have just got the latest statement by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  What he says is not very flattering but it is the latest in the long line of odd comments by him. He was talking about the increase in the Commonwealth bureaucracy. He said: 
The build-up in the Commonwealth bureaucracy in comparison had done little more than increase the number of tall poppies, tea drinkers, academic theorists and paper shufflers in Canberra and elsewhere. 
If each of the public servants here had a vote in Queensland I do not think that he or she would vote for Bjelke-Petersen. I am looking for a few supporters, incidentally. If anyone is thinking of going to Queensland, by all means they should do so. That statement ought to encourage some opposition to Bjelke-Petersen. 
I indicate that a couple of Ministers can be caught in Kings Hall if senators want to challenge that later statement. In a moment I intend to move that progress be reported. I shall do that because we certainly will not get through the remaining items before 2 o'clock this morning, and I think this is extending the absurdity of the situation much too far. I move: 
That progress be reported. 
As the Government was not prepared to accept the reasonable proposition that progress should be reported, I now take up some matters concerning the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I deal with the support for ecological projects. I refer to certain questioning by  Senator Bonner.  I would have thought that  Senator Bonner  would have taken an active part in this debate by questioning certain aspects of the estimates of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs as a follow-up to the questions which he posed during the proceedings of the Estimates Committee. I am aware of  Senator Bonner's  concern. I am aware of his compassion. I acknowledge his experience which he outlined earlier this evening. I am not trying to stir the honourable senator into participating in the debate at this late hour of the night. If the honourable senator wishes to rest quietly on his laurels, he is free to do so. I will take up these questions on  Senator Bonner's  behalf. 
In a document from Estimates Committee E, Written replies to questions asked during the Estimates Committee's examination on proposed additional expenditure for 1978-79', certain information was given.  Senator Bonner  said, as reported at page 64 of Senate Estimates  Hansard  of 3 May 1979: 
The original appropriation of $lm for Applied Ecology Pty Ltd is a substantial amount. There are some explanations on page 20 of the explanatory notes such as capital items, salaries, associated expenses, et cetera. Exactly where is that money going? What arc the capital items? Who is receiving the salaries and maintenance? ls the money going to Aboriginals. Torres Strait Islanders. non-Aboriginals or nonTorres Strait Islanders? 
This matter is quite important because for quite some time in all these projects we have been endeavouring to reverse the situation which was revealed some years ago; the bulk of the moneys was going to non-Aboriginal persons. I think it is for that reason that  Senator Bonner  asked the question. 1 am not sure what the answer which we received means. I hope the document is before the adviser. The reply talks about noncapital items, salaries, non-Aboriginal people and Islanders. 1 do not know what that means. Does it mean salaries of non-Aboriginal and non-Islander people? I take it that it means that. 
If one totals up the salaries paid to the company secretary, two biologists, project coordinator (Torres Strait), farm manager (Edward River), three assistant farm managers (Emu project), oyster farm at Edward River, scientific investigation officer, company assistant secretary, clerical assistant, secretary to the company secretary, four crew members of  Kashan  including a captain and a cook- I take it that those people are all non-Aboriginals; I wonder whether that would be correct- 
If we total those figures, we have 17 non-Aboriginal, non-Torres Strait Island people, employed by Applied Ecology Pty Ltd - 
I have counted them; there are seventeen. The point that I am making is that those 17 white people receive a total of $225,000 in salary and wages. I ask the Committee to consider these figures: Salaries and wages of Aboriginal and Islander crews of $2 1,000, Aboriginal and Islander training allowances, $326,000, and Aboriginal and Islander award rates $31,000. It then sets out some associated costs, and the total is $668,000-- 
Love me? 

 -Mr Chairman, could I have an explanation of that interjection? I am not certain what it means. 
If anyone makes a suggestion like that to me at half past twelve in the morning, it is generally somewhere else. That was a very inane interjection, as was the response. In order to get some sense into this question, I ask: How many Aboriginal and Islander crew members are paid salaries and wages, and how many receive Aboriginal and Islander training allowances and Aboriginal and Islander award rates? What does the phrase 'associated costs' mean? If I can get those answers, I will show that 17 people receive $225,000 and a whole host of Aboriginal people receive $400,000. It seems to me that that is not a fair proportion, and that is what we endeavoured to correct when we took a close look at Applied Ecology some time ago. If we can get the number of people who are paid the balance of the money, then my question and my complaint will be underlined. 
Again, I want to refer to the answer given to me that people in Applied Ecology were receiving award rates. The document shows that payments at Aboriginal and Islander award rates amounted to $31,000, but for Aboriginal and Islander training allowances the amount shown is $326,000. Am I to understand that the Government is avoiding paying award rates by claiming that the payment is a training allowance and not a wage? If that is the case, 1 think the Government is slipping around the question that I asked before, and that award rates are not being paid but merely a training allowance, which is only part of the award rate. If award rates are to be paid there, then Applied Ecology is in a considerable amount of trouble. I have asked a series of questions. Perhaps I can have the answers before I go any further. 
We are now in serious trouble with Applied Ecology, are we nol? Applied Ecology must be under test. We were informed that a review was to take place. We have a situation here where Applied Ecology will cost another $250,000 over and above what it is costing at the present time. The estimated cost of Applied Ecology since its inception is now close to $6m, and I think that figure has been accepted. Since this project started it has been the subject of considerable debate and acrimony in this place and has caused discomfort to a couple of Ministers and a couple of heads of departments. Since its inception it has cost $6m and there is nothing much to show for it. It ha s been a means of transmitting some money to Torres Strait Islanders, but a considerable amount is still going to nonAboriginal people. It seems to me that a third of the total moneys under the heading 'Salaries and Wages' is going to 17 whites and the balance is going to Aboriginal people. We still have not got the number of Aboriginal people involved. There are 17 whites and 100 non-whites. Could wc have that figure so that we can inquire a little more clearly into the problem of Applied Ecology which will cost at least $1,250,000 a year. How many Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people are we assisting? 
My next question is: Who is carrying out the review? This brings me back to the investigation of Applied Ecology by an overseas expert, a so-called expert economist called  Mr L.  Smart. He has been discussed in this place. He was associated with the co-operatives in Victoria. 
Considerable problems were involved.  His  expertise came into question. Because of his report to the Labor Government, we continued with the project subject to an environmental impact statement. That environmental impact statement has not yet been produced. We spent $6m on this project and yet we still do not have that environmental impact statement. We do not know what the results are. What has been achieved in this project which was described by several people in this place as a hoax? We do not know the direction that the turtle project has taken and the impact it has had on the environment. Where is the environmental impact statement that the previous report called for? Who is carrying out the review? Is it an internal review? Is it a review by a government committee or will it be another whitewash as the previous investigation was a whitewash which led us to further expenditure on this project? 
Yes. Do not remind me of the period. I became a director at the request of the Minister at the time in order to bring the company into some sort of order. We all know that what was revealed during that period was debated in this place, and it was taken up by the Public Accounts Committee. We found that the director,  Dr Bustard,  was being paid some $30,000 a year, as well as having an open-ended expense account which he used to travel right around Australia.  Senator Bonner  remembers that. He knows exactly what I am talking about. I am talking about the moneys which are siphoned off for the benefit of quite a number of nonAboriginal spivs. That was what was happening in relation to Applied Ecology Pty Ltd. The honourable senator knows this as well as I do. 
If the Government is interested merely in providing funds to the hundred Torres Strait Islanders that this project supports, then by all means it should take the $ 1 m, give them $ 10,000 each, let them spend their time down at the Gold Coast. But do not go into a project which is not a viable one. This project is not properly based, and environmenally and ecologically it is a farce and a waste of human effort. It has distorted the social life of the Torres Strait Islanders. It has provided some moneys to some people, in the guise of paying moneys to turtle farmers, to the disadvantage of others. The honourable senator knows just how it has affected the lifestyle ofthe 
Torres Strait Islander people, lt is a disgrace to spend $lm a year to support 100 Torres Strait Island people in this way, and to mutilate the turtle population in the process. This chamber has discussed this matter before. The rookeries have been robbed of eggs and the baby turtles have been taken to other islands. The mortality rate of the turtles was absolutely abnormal. It was an intrusion into the ecology of the area, without proper investigation. 
I am not questioning the right to pay moneys to the Aboriginal people. But I do not want to see that money wasted, because there are other projects which are just as deserving, if not more deserving. It seems to me outrageous that the honourable senator would support a proposition that we spend $ 1 m a year in order to support 100 Torres Strait Islanders and their families. If he wants to support them properly then he should see that they are not given a pittance of $80 a week, which is what their trading allowance was before the award rates came in. In fact some were receiving even less than that for having to go out to sea and gather fish. They had to prepare those fish. They had to feed them to the turtles. They had to change the turtles' water twice a day. lt was an impossible project. It was doomed to failure from the very beginning, yet we are persisting with it. As far as I am concerned millions of dollars can be given to the hundred Torres Strait Island families but it should not be syphoned off in a variety of directions. 
This report shows that the vessels the people bought were not properly surveyed. The vessels they are running backwards and forwards in the Torres Strait are not suited to the area. Furthermore, the turnover of scientists makes it impossible to have any sort of reasonable scientific continuity to the project. After all these years there is no impact statement and we are now being told that the thing is under review. We cannot extricate ourselves from this project because a hundred Torres Strait Island families depend on the moneys. What we have to do to get out of the project is to diversify into something else which is viable, and get out of this hoax that has been debated here time and time again. 

 Senator Bonner said that every time I rise to speak I am questioning payments to Torres Strait Islanders and to Aboriginal people. He may not realise it, but I am in support of those people. If this money is to be wasted, let it be wasted by Torres Strait Islanders and by Aboriginal people. The trouble is that at present it is wasted by whites. Most of the people who get themselves attached to projects of this sort turn out to be frauds. Anyone who supports the proposition that this Parliament should allocate $1,250,000 plus for this project next year and expects us to do so, 1 consider to be irresponsible. If we do that in the future we are just as irresponsible as the people who advise us to do so. The sooner we get that review, the better. The sooner we get that environmental statement, the better.. 
I would have liked not to speak about Applied Ecology, but I am certainly not going to put up with the abuse that was levelled at me by  Senator Bonner. Senator Bonner  ought to be aware of the problems that this project has faced for so many years. He ought to be aware also that the project has produced no results. I therefore ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to ask her advisers to obtain information on the stocks of turtles held at present. If that information is obtained honourable senators will realise how the attempts over the past six year have failed and how raid after raid on the rookeries has achieved little result. 

 - Senator Bonner cannot be helped; he is an impossible person. 

 - Senator Bonner has a tendency to strike at those who try to assist him. I am really trying to assist the Aboriginal people, as we are all in our various ways. We have done our best to shore up enterprises which have been ill-considered and which have become ill-fated. Surely we can assist the Aboriginal people and the Torres Strait Islanders by a reasonable scrutiny of the expenditure. 
The ready availability of large sums of money has led to a whole host of people coming forward with a variety of ideas which are completely unworkable. I think that on many occasions an inexperienced and unsophisticated people have been taken for a ride. If any project ever took anyone for a ride, it was the turtle farming project in the Torres Strait. What has been achieved after six year of raising turtles in the way  Senator Bonner  has suggested- from the egg stage through to meat being supplied to the market?  Senator Bonner  should admit that it is impossible to raise turtles in the Torres Strait by the methods presently being employed. He ought to admit also that the project upon which this scheme was based- it was run by the Mariculture company in the Caribbean- has failed. It cost the shareholders of that company throughout the world millions of dollars. We are trying to emulate that failure in the Torres Strait by pumping money into a project at the rate of $ 1 ,250,000 a year. 

 Senator Bonner says that the scheme has been set up to produce foodstuffs for the people of the area. It would have been far better if the original proposition were accepted. The rookeries would be protected, the turtle population monitored and the Torres Strait Islanders allowed to harvest according to population levels. If that had been done we would not have needed to go to the trouble of building a turtle compound, of all things, in some of the roughest and most intemperate seas around Australia. The turtles have to be put inside these compounds. What is fed to the turtles? They, are fed with compound turtle feed which costs $18,000. Compressed feed or pellets are brought in from the south to feed the turtles inside the compound. The first attempts to build compounds, both in the Caribbean by the Mariculture company and in the Torres Strait, were failures because they were not built secure enough or high enough. The great failure with the Mariculture company was that high tides allowed the turtles to swim over the top of the compound. 
Les Smart recommended that we should build a turtle compound in the Torres Strait at a cost of $ 1 m. It would have been necessary to use sophisticated engineering skills in an area remote from the centres of industry which provide the materials. It is bad enough building the Stuart 
Highway. But we are talking about a turtle compound in which turtles are placed until they are raised to a weight of 40 lb and then transported right across the world to be sold at about $70 each. Any reasonable person who looked at this project from the start would have realised it was a hoax. Various governments and Ministers have been responsible for these projects. At one time it was Wentworth 's responsibility. He used to fight vigorously with the head of his Department over projects of this sort. The responsiblity went from Wentworth to Bryant to Cavanagh to Viner and to Chaney.. We still have the wretched project. We are trapped because we have to assist 100 families in the Torres Strait. We cannot get out of the fix because we refuse to diversify; we refuse to accelerate a review; we refuse to get an environmental impact statement so that we can do away with the project and give the people of the Torres Strait Islands something else to do. 
If I get excited it is because I am stirred by  Senator Bonner.  Honourable senators know as well as I do that every time I hear the word turtle' I go into a sort of frenzy. I have travelled from island to island. The people in this area laughed at us. They were paid $50 as soon as they had 150 baby turtles. That was all right when the turtles were about the aquarium size. The Islanders had to maintain 150 baby turtles to receive payment. So a trade in baby turtles developed. The people of (he islands bought turtles from one another to keep their number at 150. They were paying 50c for a baby turtle. So we developed a trade backwards and forwards in baby turtles. But from the baby turtles' point of view it was disaster. 
Honourable senators ask me why I get excited. The turtles were kept in rusty half 44-gallon. drums; they were kept in old jars; they were kept all over the place. They were covered with galvanised iron as they grew bigger. When one approached Murray Island one could smell the turtles from at least three miles off. That is not an exaggeration. 

 Senator Bonner suggested that the Islanders were raising the turtles to eat. George Mye, for whom I have the greatest admiration, says: 'I used to enjoy turtle but raising turtles put me off them for life'. Who would eat a turtle that was reared in such conditions? They lived in their own excretion and they smelled like it. This is what was done to the baby turtles. The ponds were overcrowded to the point where the turtles cannibalised one another. Their back flippers were eaten away. If the prevention of cruelty people had ever gone to that area they would have issued a writ against the lot of us for allowing such a project to go on. Honourable senators wonder why I get excited, especially when  Senator Bonner  accuses me of knocking any project that supports Aboriginal people. The true position is the opposite. It is the old Indian blanket trick all over again but instead of blankets turtles are being used. 
Of course the Torres Strait Island people want us to continue the project because it is now their livelihood. They get some money paid by cheque for looking after these turtles. Instead of fishing and living off the environment they pay the money into the government store. This is why the Queensland Government and the department do not object to this arrangement. The money that we pay to the Torres Strait Islanders is being fed into their stores to the tune of some $300,000 a year. The Queensland Government is not objecting, and why should it? The Commonwealth is subsidising its stores. 
With the advent of turtle farming for the first time some of the Islanders began to suffer from malnutrition. Originally they were using the money they received to buy frozen food for their diet. However, when they could not get out to catch fish to feed the turtles they fed them with frozen chickens and frozen peas. Do I have to go any further? 
-Have honourable senators got the message? Next time honourable senators look at the estimates and come up against Applied Ecology Pty Ltd I do not want them to knock that company because it has other projects which are likely to be more viable in those northern areas, such as crocodile farming. In regard to wichety grub farming, which was another project, and emu farming, I just do not know. I certainly know what is wrong with turtle farming and I hope I have impressed honourable senators. I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to take what I say seriously and, for goodness sake, will someone convince  Senator Bonner  that I happen to be on his side, not against him? 
I am sorry that I have to come back to the turtle farming project. 
I must. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has given me some information that the number of turtles is 2,000. 
1 am sorry; either 1 did not read that part or I read over it. I would have added another figure to that one. Are 2,000 turtles being cared for by 100 turtle farmers at a cost of $300,000 a year? The figure, must be wrong surely. How many turtle farmers are there? I take it that there are 100 turtle farmers and that they are looking after 2,000 turtles. Who is carrying out the review? I do not want to get into a state of absolute despair at this time of night, but if we divide the 2,000 turtles by 100 turtles farmers we see that each farmer is looking after 20 turtles and is being paid the award wage, which is now $150 a week. I do not mind if we give the Torres Strait Islanders the $ 1 50 and we forget about the turtles. For goodness sake! 
I have had a look at that report. If we look at it carefully we see that it is one of these nicely presented reports with a lot of diagrams, circles and segments of circles. It is very impressive. Nevertheless, it is the first one we have had. I think we ought to be grateful for it. After struggling for years to get a report from the company we have finally got a report before the Parliament. Previously the company used to say: 'We are a separate company. We hold no responsibility. We do not have to give any accounting'. We will take a closer look at the report when the full Estimates are before the Parliament. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  can rest assured that there is going to be strong resistance by a number of senators to the provision of that large sum of money to rear 2,000 turtles which are being supervised by 100 farmers, with an administrative cost of $225,000 a year plus all the additional materials that have to be found, the total cost being about $1,080,000. Because of the award wages, which are rightly going to be paid, it is going to cost over $ 1 ,250,000. It really does not go down very well now. It ought to be presented in a more palatable and reasonable fashion when the Estimates come before the Parliament in August, September or October of this year. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
It seems to me that we should ask why the Minister who is responsible for most of these matters is not in charge ofthe chamber. It is quite apparent, as I mentioned earlier, that the Minister presently in charge is acting in relation to a whole range of departments for which she has no responsibility. For that reason she would find it very difficult to give information that should be known by the Minister responsible. Why is  Senator Carrick  not here to answer questions on this matter? Possibly he would be able to answer the question I wish to ask arising from what  Senator Townley  and  Senator McLaren  have been saying. It seems to me that the advisers should be able to tell us when the two aircraft that have been purchased at prices which have been debated in this place will be permanently re-equipped. In other words, when will the configuration be changed to that of VIP aircraft? 
In this case the configuration and order are being changed to satisfy VIP usage. 
I know that. They are changed in commercial aircraft from economy to first class and vice versa. 
And sometimes the whole lot are taken out and the aircraft are converted to transport aircraft. But with VIP aircraft, and  Senator Sim  has travelled in them, the configuration is permanently different. They have special cabins and special seating. The point I am trying to make is that the configuration is changed substantially and that substantial change in configuration would limit the use of the aircraft as troop carriers. 
It must. By putting special cabins in them we are limiting our ability to change the configuration of the two aircraft that we have purchased. If  Senator Collard  were not in the chair we would be able to take advantage of his expertise. It seems to me that by permanently changing the configuration of these aircraft we are limiting their use as troop carriers and that the cost of using them in that way- for defence purposes- will be excessive. Let me ask a straight question. If they are to be used as troop carriers, how many troops will they carry? 
-But Qantas Airways Ltd does not set them up for Prime Ministerial use. Qantas does not set them up in such a way that there are separate cabins, different bulkheads, et cetera. I want to know exactly how many troops these aircraft will be able to carry if they are used as troop carriers? My view of this matter is that the Government has made a stupid purchase in this respect, lt has lumbered the Royal Australian Air Force with two costly aircraft which it will not be able to use efficiently, merely to satisfy the whim of the Prime Minister. If it had been left to the decision of the RAAF - 
I am allowed a little latitude at two minutes past two in the morning. Honourable senators opposite voted on two occasions in favour of extending this debate to this hour, so suffer on. 
-Obviously it does, otherwise  Senator Sim  would not be interjecting. I wish to know whether we have imposed upon the Air Force two aircraft that cannot be used properly for defence purposes, merely to satisfy the desires and the megalomania of the Prime Minister? 

 - Mr President, you should not have invited me to speak at this hour- 2. 10 a.m.- but I wish to make a couple of comments, and if I make them now it will save me making them at the Committee stage. I thought that at 12 o'clock the Government would have accepted our proposition that we should report progress on our consideration of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4), on which I am speaking now. On previous occasions the consideration of Bills has gone on for at least an hour beyond the time set for the adjournment of the sitting in order to pass the Bills at that sitting. On those occasions it was within our reach to do so, but that has not been the case with these Bills. For that reason, we have been forced to sit here until 2.10 a.m. and still we have not reached the adjournment of the sitting. If  Senator Sim  is interested, let me say to him that if he wishes to sit until the early hours of the morning, by all means let us do so. But the passage of this sort of legislation will not be facilitated if the Government adopts the perverse methods which were adopted tonight. It is a long, long time since we sat until 2 a.m. considering legislation. We have previously sat beyond the time set for the adjournment of the sitting in order to pass legislation, but judging from the Government's performance yesterday and the previous day, when it sought to assert its will rather unjustly upon the Opposition, it seems to me that the Government has found now that we are prepared to sit for as long as it wishes. 
Yes, of course. We will search out detailed information because that is the only way in which the Opposition can respond to the Government's attempts to take the debate on legislation beyond the normal hour. We would accept a reasonable proposition, but sitting until 2 a.m. is not reasonable. The Government might argue that it is our fault that we are here at this hour, and to some extent that may be so. Perhaps we have extended the debate somewhat and could have truncated it in some way. But if the Government takes us beyond 12 o'clock we will make certain that we take every possible-- 
No, I am just saying that honourable senators opposite have used methods to keep us here beyond a reasonable time. All I am saying to them is that immediately they do that, of course we will make certain that they are justified in going beyond that time. What has happened illustrates that this place functions much better with co-operation. It does not function when the Government endeavours to thrust its program down the throat of the Opposition. When that happens the Opposition will gag on it, and we have gagged our way along until 3.15 a.m. If honourable senators opposite wish to go beyond 12 o'clock, let them expect that we will go until 3 a.m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages, without requests or debate. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Firstly, I think it is necessary for me to answer the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  He said that I was aware that the Leader of the House in the other place,  Mr Sinclair,  had come across. I was aware of the need to postpone the Senate's program until such time as the Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman,  had made an explanation, which is what it turned out to be. But what cannot be taken from us is the feeling- perhaps I could use the word 'suspicion'- that  Mr Newman  was required, in fact forced, to alter his position on this matter in order to protect the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster.  If there is suspicion, let us bring the matter out into the open. 
No. I am speaking to the motion at the moment. I have the call from the Chair. 1 am just explaining that I was not told by the Leader of the Government in the Senate that  Mr Sinclair  had come across. I have it from another source that  Mr Sinclair  did come across. What happens in situations such as this is that rumours begin to move about the place. 
Perhaps I am extending them. We need to find out the truth of the matter. Let us debate the issue to see whether the Opposition was potting, as  Senator Button  suggested earlier, and instead of hitting  Senator Webster  we now seem to have hit  Mr Newman. Mr Newman  now seems to have been required to make an explanation which denies the policy of his Department. The policy of his Department is consistent with the answers that he gave in the House of Representatives. He said that the reason for the non-declaration of the zone was the permits involved in the area. 1 have raised question after question in this place asking why it is that the Department of National Development,  Mr Newman's  Department, through its membership of the Great Barrier Reef Conservative Committee, has been pressing for drilling in that region of the Great Barrier Reef. Representatives of  Mr Newman's  Department have been pressing for that time and time again. The policy of Newman's Department is that drilling should take place. The policy of his Department is that the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park should not be declared until such time as the matter of the permits is resolved. It is not a constitutional matter, as  Senator Webster  said time and time again. However, as far as  Mr Newman  is concerned that is not the case. He gave an answer according to the policy of his Department. He was clear and straightforward in his reply. We in this place have had evasion from  Senator Webster  and from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
What happened today was that, in defence of  Senator Webster,  who was caught out in a conflict with the responsible Minister, pressure was brought to bear on  Mr Newman  for him to accept full responsibility. That is what  Mr Newman's  explanation means. He accepted full responsibility in order to allow  Senator Webster  to escape the charges that we were laying against him, namely, that he was misleading the House and that he had been misleading the House consistently on the matter. In this situation  Mr Newman  is the fall guy. I suggest that the reason it was  Mr Sinclair  who came across to see the Leader of the Government in the Senate was that  Mr Sinclair  came to protect his fellow member of the National Country Party. That is the situation, no more, no less. The National Country Party brought pressure to bear to protect  Senator Webster  in this place. There is no doubt that  Senator Webster  has been on the run. He has been discredited. Even today he was discredited. 

 Mr Newman was forced to accept responsibility, just as  Senator Withers  was. 
What is revealed by this whole matter is a conflict between  Mr Newman's  Department and the Department of Science and the Environment. On a factual basis I find it more acceptable to accept the reality of  Mr Newman's  position. What we have been complaining about is that  Mr Newman's  Department is committed to oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef.  Senator Webster  is committed to making apologies. But  Senator Webster  has been caught out in a conflict. He has been caught out in misleading this House. This whole exercise this afternoon has been to protect  Senator Webster.  Clearly,  Mr Newman  is the fall guy in this situation. As  Senator Cavanagh  said, it remains to be seen what will develop over the next two or three days. One thing is certain:  Senator Webster  is in a powerful position because he is protected by the National Country Party minority in the Government. It has called the tune before and it is calling it again.  Senator Webster  will escape the penalty that he ought to accept. 
I made my own assessment from the incidents which have occurred. The Leader of the Government in the Senate has acknowledged that it was Sinclair who acted as the message boy and came across to tell us that we could not proceed as planned because  Mr Newman  had not made a statement-  Mr Sinclair  knew exactly what the statement contained. He knew that  Mr Newman  was going to make a statement, accepting full responsibility in the matter, in order to allow  Senator Webster  to escape. That has been the whole exercise in the other place and this place. Although I do not agree with  Mr Newman's  policies, in the circumstances I feel sorry for him. All this has a sort of Withers aspect. I hope that it is not  Mr Newman  who suffers. The person who ought to suffer is  Senator Webster. 
I take the opportunity, in the first reading debate on this money bill, to speak about a matter which has concerned me greatly. 
I am sorry. I cannot quite catch what the honourable senator is saying. If he would like to repeat it-- 
We have a certain responsibility to those who have their names on the list. It is my responsibility to see that they have the opportunity to speak in this first reading debate. Many of these people have waited for quite some time to speak. Besides, there are one or two matters about which I wish to speak. I would have preferred to have done so while the  President  was in the chair. That is no reflection upon you,  Mr Deputy President. 
The matters concern what happens at Question Time. I have levelled a certain amount of criticism by way of points of order which sometimes have not been properly based but which were well intentioned. The points of order were based upon the desire to prevent the misuse of Question Time. When I entered this Parliament I found, to my cost, that if I varied from the question it was promptly put on notice or I was asked to sit down and reframe it. It was a matter of asking a question directly and as briefly as possible. I was also advised that the shorter the question the better chance one had of getting an answer. What developed over a period of time- I must admit that it accelerated during the period of the Labor Government when Ministers endeavoured-- 
I am sorry. If the honourable senator were to listen for a while and if he would appreciate the reason why I suddenly had to get to my feet to start-- 
-Well, I cannot just get up suddenly and start talking and then finish in the middle of my speech. The next speaker from the Government side was the one who was missing, incidentally. 
I do not know who was missing. Honourable senators opposite know what I have done. I have forfeited my right to speak in the first reading debate on this money Bill because my material is not here. I am on my feet because I want the debate to continue in order to allow other people to take their places-- 
-That is a rather good idea. Someone has said that another way out of the situation is to call for a quorum. Yes, I want a quorum.  (Quorum formed).  I could seek leave to continue my remarks later; but I realise that there is to be another first reading debate on a money Bill at a later stage. I think I will give the opportunity to someone who is better prepared than 1 happen to be at the moment to contribute to the program of the Senate. 
-by leave  -Mr President,  on behalf of  Senator Ryan,  I move: 
That Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No.1 , relating to the disallowance of the Poker Machine Control (Amendment) Ordinance 1979, be postponed till the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave- Honourable senators will recall that last week when the matter was raised, the Opposition moved to adjourn the debate and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  intervened. Honourable senators were all pleased to accept what the Government leader then did, which was to accept the apology of  Senator Cavanagh.  I thought at that time that the Government was taking a very sympathetic and compassionate approach to a problem that had flared in this place. I was of the opinion that as far as the Senate was concerned the apology was accepted and the matter was over and done with. But it seems to me now that we are about to go back over the whole of this untidy affair. It will not serve us very well if that happens. 
What seems to have emerged from today's debate is a suggestion from the Leader of the Government in the Senate that you,  Mr President,  should look at this matter. I do not think he suggested a reference to the Privileges Committee but merely to you to view and to decide whether it was a matter for the Privileges Committee. I suggest that the good sense that prevailed last should again prevail and that the Senate should consider the matter closed. It is an extraordinary situation. Rumours have swept through this Parliament in a most unreal fashion. From the short appreciation that I made of the matter during a dinner recess last week, it emerged as one of the strangest sequences of events which led two people-  Mr Burns  and  Senator Cavanagh-  into difficulties. My opinion is that the Senate was correct last week in accepting the apology and that as a Senate we should consider the matter closed. Nothing that will do any of us any good at all will come out of this. For that reason I am taking the opportunity to impress upon you that perhaps that is the better course to take. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I think it is an excellent arrangement to have an auditor supervising the affairs of the AuditorGeneral's Office. It is a principle which I think ought to be extended. 
I could not think of the quotation at the time; I thought that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  might be able to help me with it. 
-Good. Who watches the custodians? We should not get immersed in that. Nevertheless, there is a quotation, either Latin or Greek, which suitably describes the principle behind the provision of an auditor, as announced by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney).  It seems that eventually we will have to look at the Audit Act because, at the hearings of one of the committees on which I serve, I was surprised to learn that the affairs of departments, such as the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs are exempt from the provisions of the Audit Act because one of the branches of that Department is required to be exempted for security reasons. The sooner we look at the Audit Act the better. If the Auditor-General considers it advisable to have the affairs of his office scrutinised, we must appreciate how important it is for the Auditor-General to look at the affairs of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. The affairs of that Department ought not to be exempt from the scope of the AuditorGeneral 's inquiry or supervision because of some desire to protect the security of one small section of that Department .  Mr President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave -I wish to make a brief statement. I am pleased to have been mentioned in the brief of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney).  He glossed over the very substantial nature of the program before us. We find included in the list which has been distributed the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Bill and other Bills which are part of the mini-Budget which was brought down by the Government. I do not doubt that we need to debate those Bills at length because of their serious effect on the economy. I do not intend to debate this legislation right now. However, faced with the need to take certain economic measures, the Government has brought down legislation which needs to be debated in depth, and as a result our program has been extended beyond what we had anticipated. 
Also we are to consider the National Health Amendment Bill and the Health Insurance Amendment Bill. Again these are other important pieces of legislation which need to be debated. The Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill is on the list as are several other pieces of complex legislation such as the Australian Federal Police Bill. We know of all the consequences which flow from that legislation and which need to be debated. 
All we can say is that the co-operation that has been given to the Government on many occasions will be given again. Nevertheless we ought not to have these patronising speeches which are made from time to time and in which we are told that the Opposition has been given plenty of opportunity and that we ought to acknowledge with gratitude the way in which we have been treated, that we ought to bow our knees, dip our lids or make other sorts of gestures. I can think of a few gestures we could add to those suggested. We ought not to be expected to bow before the Government, as has been anticipated. 
I could bring this whole debate to an end with a weighty pause, not having heard the Minister clearly and not knowing how to answer him if I had. But I am serious when I say that this is not a small program. It is a lengthy one. I can see that we will need to sit as has been indicated by the Minister. We are prepared, and we have always been prepared, to give our full attention to the program, to debate it fully and to spend as much time as is necessary on debate. I am a little perturbed, shall I say, that there is on the Notice Paper a notice of motion to suspend Standing Order 68. I do not know whether I am permitted to debate a motion which we anticipate will be moved tomorrow, but could I make a couple of remarks? If it is the intention of the Government to suspend Standing Order 68 so that it can introduce business after 1 1 p.m., by all means let it go ahead. But I have always found that when new business is introduced after the time for the adjournment, it takes generally four times longer to conclude that business than if it were introduced before 10.30 p.m. or 1 1 p.m. 
If the Government has in mind any intention to introduce new business after the time for the adjournment, let it go ahead by all means, but it must expect some very lengthy sittings. That is not a threat. I never threaten or promise. I am merely stating the facts as they appear to me. It would be quite foolish to sit for five days this week and possibly next week if we are to sit after the time for the adjournment. I think that 1 have made my position clear, if I have not made the position of the Opposition clear. On our side there is general agreement that we intend to debate the program fully and, I hope, completely to the satisfaction of the Government, which may lead to some unexpected amendments. 
-I will endeavour to reinforce the argument put by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. Although the appointment of  Mr Justice  Fox was not made by legislation, I think the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has indicated that it can be terminated by this legislation because he admitted that the Government did not wish to be bound to that termination date. Unfortunately, we have had the experience in this place of appointing judges, sometimes retired judges, to royal commissions and inquiries, and finding that those judges in some way extend the period of the inquiry. I call to mind the royal commission on the Great Barrier Reef that went on and on. The Opposition did not object to that at the time because it meant that while the inquiry was proceeding there was a moratorium on the Great Barrier Reef. Nevertheless, the inquiry took some five years and cost well over $lm. Other commissions led by judges have taken an extraordinary length of time. 
-As a matter of fact, I was trying to recall his name. 
It was  Mr Justice  Toose.  His  inquiry seemed to go on endlessly. It may be unfair to suggest this, but it is possible that  Mr Justice  Fox may create the conditions for his further appointment if we have an open-ended arrangement. The Opposition's amendment endeavours to make it clear to  Mr Justice  Fox and to the Government that the appointment will terminate in three years time. Only if there were an extraordinary requirement would a reappointment be made, but that would be subject to the scrutiny of the Parliament. I may be wrong in that argument, but I put it to the AttorneyGeneral that this is a reasonable amendment. Rather than hinder the amendment in any way by some general objection, he should accept it and improve the legislation. 
-If I had been a little harder earlier and had spoken for a further half a minute we would not be having this debate tonight. It would have been brought on tomorrow at a more important time, when those of us who want to take part would be able to do so. We now have to debate the matter after the motion that the Senate do now adjourn has been put and resolved in the negative. That does not give us great hopes for what will happen for the rest of the week, especially after the Government moves tomorrow for the suspension of Standing Order 68. I take it that the Government intends to debate the matters on its program into the early hours of the morning. This debate tonight seems to be a lead up to that situation. 
The statement by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  concerns me greatly because it revives the fear I had that the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, as it is now known- it is not known now as the Great Barrier Reef authority- will be the means by which the Great Barrier Reef area will be dismembered. It will be the means by which it will be fragmented and broken up. The concept of one great ecosystem of world standard is being destroyed. The Minister's statement reinforces my impression. 
Opinion poll after opinion poll has indicated that people in Queensland and throughout Australia are just not interested in finding oil in the Great Barrier Reef area. That decision of the people, as expressed in a variety of ways, and to a certain extent expressed to the royal commission which reported on this matter, ought to be accepted. We ought to forget about continuing the debate on the issue. We ought to accept that as far as the people are concerned the Great Barrier Reef area ought to be protected in total. What is being proposed is the setting up of a series of marine parks with buffer zones which will allow drilling on all of the many leases which extend across the Barrier Reef area. Of course, the great danger is that oil may be found in the area. In my view, that would be the end of the Great Barrier Reef. 
I merely wish to indicate that the statement, which I believe was debated at length in the other place, is one which we would have liked to have debated here. The Government, by making the statement after the normal time for the adjournment of the Senate, limits us in some way. I do not propose to limit what I have to say. I again express the fears which have been expressed to the effect that the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority is being misused. This policy will lead to achieving exactly the opposite to what was intended to be achieved, according to the various debates which took place when the Authority was being established. Also, the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee, which supports the Marine Park Authority, is representative of various departments with conflicting demands upon the Great Barrier Reef area. The Consultative Committee is a committee on which environmentalists are in the minority whereas they should have been in the majority. 
I have no great hope that the statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will mean that no drilling will take place on the Great Barrier Reef or that there will be no mineral exploitation of the Great Barrier Reef. All this statement tonight means is that the Government has had to move away, because of public pressure, from the immediate exploitation of the Great Barrier Reef. The Government will allow a period of research and then continue with its original intention, namely, to protect some part of the Great Barrier Reef by establishing a marine park but allowing drilling for oil in the province of the Great Barrier Reef. It is my opinion- it is accepted generally by a large number of people- that drilling of any sort within the province of the Great Barrier Reef should not be permitted. 
The Queensland Government is not to be trusted with matters which concern the protection of our environment; that has been proven time and time again. At the present time the Federal Government is giving powers to the State which enable it to reduce the importance of the area, to denigrate the whole concept of protection of the Great Barrier Reef and so allow for its exploitation for minerals. 
That is all I wish to say at this stage. I merely repeat that it is not right for such an important statement to be made after the normal time of adjournment because this limits debate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carrick)  adjourned. 
We agreed to the suspension of Standing Order 68 because we thought that that course was acceptable. We did not debate the motion today because we thought that the suspension of that Standing Order would enable Bills which were in their latter stages of debate to be passed towards the end of the week with the co-operation of the Opposition. It was not intended by the Opposition to agree to the suspension of Standing Order 68 to allow honourable senators to debate the program through to the early hours of the morning. 
For some reason the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  has taken it upon himself to impose upon us a program which we cannot complete without sitting until the early hours of the morning. Sooner or later the Senate will have to decide whether it will sit till I o'clock, 2 o'clock or 3 o'clock in the morning because that is what this program indicates. Not only do we have to complete the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill 1979 but also we have to debate the first readings of the Wine Grapes Levy Bill 1979 and associated Bills. Honourable senators have waited for some time to speak in the debate on the first readings of those Bills. They are entitled to say what they wish to say. They did not expect to have to do so at 1 o'clock or 2 o'clock in the morning, but that is what the Leader of the Government is thrusting upon us. 
Again I suggest to the Leader of the Government that a reasonable program would be to debate and to pass the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill 1979 and the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill 1979. In spite of his assertions to the contrary, I do not doubt that he will put a case that the agreement was that the Government was to get its legislation through. I think the understanding of honourable senators on this side of the chamber was that we should pass those 2 Bills, especially the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill 1979. A considerable number of honourable senators on this side of the House would like to speak to that Bill, and this would take us into the early hours of the morning. I repeat that it would be reasonable to accept that program and to allow us to go home at a reasonable hour. A refusal to accept that program means that the Government wants to run this place on its terms without having any consideration for the Opposition. I know that the Government Whip is shaking his head. Today we have not had a chance- because of party meetings- to consult on the program. For that reason we may have got into some difficulty, but that disadvantage may be overcome tomorrow. If the Government is to do that to the Opposition tonight, then of course tomorrow it will see a whole series of procedures that will make of this place a place - 
-Senator Knight is saying it will be up to us. He is taking the holierthanthou, righteous attitude that if the program breaks down it is the Opposition 's fault. 
-Is the honourable senator saying that it is our fault? The Government wants to do something unreasonable and because the Opposition does not accept it, then we are unreasonable. What sort of chopped logic is that? 
-The Government will get its legislation today. 
Let us proceed the way the Government wants to proceed. Let us say that all the understandings of the past few weeks and perhaps of the past couple of sessions, have gone out the window. The motion to which I should be speaking is that the resumption of the debate be made on Order of the Day for the next day of sitting. I am not certain whether that is after 1 2 midnight or whether it is after the Senate reconvenes tomorrow. That is an academic exercise. All I am saying is that if one considers it important for honourable senators to debate into the early hours of the morning then the education statement is also important and the Senate should continue to debate it right now. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent my speaking on this subject. 
I have moved this motion because I think that it is urgent for us to debate this matter at this moment. I think that an injustice has been done to a member of the Senate because he told the truth. The truth that he spoke was that two honourable senators, rightly or wrongly, were asleep. I have no question about that. Many people fall asleep in this place. At this late hour it is excusable. Both those honourable senators- 
This is the first time I have had any indication of this change in the order of business, and I oppose it. 
lt is on the Notice Paper as No. 2. 
I am sorry. When I gave a report to the party this morning I saw that the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill was slotted No. 2. Obviously the order has been changed. One of our problems, of course, is that the matter has not been determined in our party room. For that reason we have called an urgent meeting of the relevant committee to determine our approach to this legislation and to make our arrangements for the debate. I am sorry that I have allowed myself to be misled- which is a polite way of putting it in accepting the blame- but in the interim Notice Paper that I saw this morning that Bill followed the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill 1979. As honourable senators will realise, substantial debate on that Bill will give us sufficient time to make our arrangements. 
-! rise to speak to the motion. I do so because we now find ourselves in the position of having time constraints forced upon us in an unreasonable way. 
-Senator Knight interjects: 'We have all night'. There is no reason for us to go all night. The Government must understand that we will not get through the legislative program this week by trying to thrust it down the throats of members of the Opposition, which is what the Government intends to do. It is unreasonable to demand that we get through the whole of today's program tonight and at the same time truncate this important debate on education. If we are to be consistent, let us argue it out. Let us not postpone the debate. Accepting that  Senator Martin  wants to continue her remarks, let us bring in the legislation that is coming to the Senate from the other place and then return to this debate. If the Government wants to stay here all night we will do so. But let me put a reasonable proposition to the Government. I refer to the one which was discussed over the table earlier today when there was an exchange about the program. I think it was generally accepted in that exchange that we should complete the debate on the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill 1979. The Senate will notice that in order to complete the debate on that Bill the list of speakers has been shortened. People have been taken off that list. In effect, the Opposition has only two further speakers on that Bill. 
A Government  speaker  was taken off the list, yes, but three Opposition speakers were taken off it. Those three Opposition speakers could be put back on the list. We have taken those speakers off the list to enable the Senate to get through the debate on the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill. Because it was regarded as important for us to send the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill to the House of Representatives today it was generally agreed across the table that that should be done. My understanding- it might have been quite incorrect- was that that would be sufficient business for us to complete because that would take us to 1 1.30 p.m., 12 o'clock or perhaps beyond. Having reached that point- having dealt with those two Bills- surely it is unreasonable to expect us to go on to the remainder of the program for today, namely, the first reading debate on wine Bills and the second reading debate on wine Bills and then the debate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill. I think there is another Bill on the set program and on other days we will achieve more than what is on the program. As we get towards the end of the week that will be the case. Does the Government know what will happen if it thrusts today's program on the Senate tonight? We will seek quorums and refuse to incorporate second reading speeches. 
Does  Senator Maunsell  want to stay? We can refuse to incorporate second reading speeches. We can refuse to debate Bills cognately. The Government can force us to debate Bills cognately by having divisions but it cannot force us to debate them as a whole in Committee. What I am saying is that we can get through the program by co-operation but the Government cannot achieve this end by trying to thrust the program down our throats. 
I know that it does. That is exactly right. It takes two to co-operate. We are prepared to co-operate if we are given reasonable time. It seems to me that the only way we can resolve this problem is by doing exactly as the forms of the House permit. That will force the Government into the position of having to apply the gag and guillotine if it wants to complete its program this week. 
If I remember correctly, we have avoided using the gag and the guillotine on past occasions. As we have come towards the end of the legislative program we have done our utmost to get honourable senators away. We have succeeded in doing that on previous occasions. I return to the motion which is before the House, that is, the motion that this debate be made an Order of the Day for the next day of sitting. I can speak to that motion at length because I believe that the statement on education which is before the House is an important one. We could continue to express our point of view on this statement if we were allowed to do so. We could impress upon the Government the importance of the statement and the fact that we oppose the adjournment of the debate on the statement. We have been victims of the usual confidence trick on the part of the Government. It is now the Government's ploy to make pre-announcements about what it intends to do. The horrific things that the Government says it will do put the whole of the nation in a state of tension and expectation. Suddenly, when a statement is produced, it is found that things are not as bad as the Government originally pronounced. The analogy is hitting a man on the head with a hammer, patching him up with a band-aid and then telling him that you are sorry. 
Debate interrupted. 
The Senate earlier made arrangements to truncate this debate and certain speakers were withdrawn. However, I enter it to take the place of  Senator Wriedt.  I am speaking of the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill 1979. This Bill is an example in legislative form of one of the major broken promises of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the question of taxation. Honourable senators have spoken about this on several occasions but it is necessary to reiterate that the legislation before the Senate indeed represents a broken promise. I feel that even at this late hour- or early hour, whichever way one likes to put it- that point needs to be reemphasised. Every member of this Parliament and every elector will remember the words which were used in last year's Budget Speech. I am not speaking slowly deliberately; it just happens that, like many other honourable senators, I am feeling rather tired. 
I am not. If the honourable senator wants to check whether or not I am reading my speech he can have the notes to which I am referring on the table, and then he can check the  Hansard  to see whether the speech conforms with the notes that I have before me. The honourable senator is not suggesting that I am reading somebody else's speech? I am capable of making my own speech in my own way. On an occasion when we have to replace a  speaker,  of course I must reflect his thoughts and his opinions, which by coincidence happen to be my own. May I be permitted to quote from last year's Budget Speech? It reads: 
As foreshadowed earlier, the Government has decided that as a temporary measure for 1978-79 only, a standard rate of personal income tax will be increased by  Vh  per cent . . . 
I emphasise these words: 
. as a temporary measure for 1978-79 only . . . 
At the time the surcharge was announced it drew considerable criticism from the Press, from the taxpayers' organisations and from the general public because it- was an abrogation of the Government's earlier promises that it was a party of lower taxation. The Liberal and National Country parties have said time and time again that they are parties of lower taxation. 
No, in essence they are correct. They are parties of lower taxation for the rich, but in order to balance it out they are parties of higher taxation for the poor and the underprivileged. They have endeavoured to balance their books by imposing a higher rate of taxation by surcharge, which they promised to withdraw but which they have not withdrawn. 
-Senator Walters, their pensions have been reduced by the Government's failure to index the pension at half-yearly stages. Perhaps we ought to be indexing their pensions at quarterly stages to enable them to maintain value. Admittedly, the Government does not tax pensions because those people are well below the poverty line, as has been shown by a recent survey, and they are not in the taxable area. There are several ways of taxing pensioners. One way is to lift the prices of goods which they have to purchase. Another way is to fail to index their pensions to meet the increased cost of those goods. It seems to me that I have satisfied  Senator Walters  because she is now starting to take a short rest. I do not mind if she does rest because I am not one who has any fancy ideas about the penetration of my argument. She may be able to accept it as not being of any worth at all. 
No, it does not surprise me. Then, of course, we have to assess the value of the person's criteria and perhaps I could say that- 
Explain myself at this late hour? 
I have great difficulty because I very seldom get an opportunity to speak in this place on a subject about which I know something. We will be looking at  Hansard  later today and wondering what the devil was going on at 12.20 a.m. We have now been told that the surcharge will remain from 1 July 1979 until at least the end of November. On the basis of the performance that we have seen to date, it is hard to believe that the promise will be kept. That is a reasonable assumption to make when one realises the number of promises that have been made in this place by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  He said that interest rates would go down by 2 per cent this year, but of course we find that they did not go down. He said that the deficit would be reduced. The deficit has not been reduced. Over the last six months we have seen limited recovery in parts of the Australian economy. Motor vehicle sales have risen, exports have increased and the output for sections of the manufacturing industry have improved marginally. However, in contrast we have noted that the level of borrowings overseas has increased substantially. 
The Fraser Government has now borrowed in excess of $4,000m overseas. That is the amount which I recall brought the Labor Government into, shall we say, an area of questioning by the Opposition of the day. Of course, the Labor Government's fault was to seek to borrow the $4,000m not from the traditional areas of Theadneedle Street and Wall Street and pay the substantial interest rates that those areas demanded, but from where there was a surplus of money- the Middle East area- and to do that sort of borrowing direct. What is happening now is that we are getting the same sort of money but it has been laundered through the United States of America or the United Kingdom. Borrowing $4,000m overseas was considered at that time to be reprehensible and to be a justification for the Senate to go on strike and to refuse Supply. 
Since we are continually reminded of the errors of the Labor Government, let me remind Government senators of the errors of the Opposition at that time. The refusal to allow Supply to pass through this place brought the economy to a halt. Cash flows were stopped in a way that was dramatically revealed in the business community of Canberra itself. I think our economic problems commenced at about that time. The economy of the country was rendered uncertain by the rather vicious desire of the Opposition at that time to gain the treasury bench. Of course, it is history now that that Opposition succeeded. But it succeeded on the basis that it would handle the economy better than the Labor Government. It succeeded on the basis that it was wrong for the Labor Government to borrow $4,000m. But here we find that the Government has borrowed overseas exactly the sum of $4,000m. One of these days we may get the answer to these questions: What is the cost of that borrowing? Under what terms was the borrowing made? For what period was it made? Has the coalition government placed Australia into hock? That accusation was made against the Labor Government. The present Government must accept that accusation in return. 
In addition, we have seen the rate of inflation turn around and start to increase. There is no prospect of the Budget commitment of the level of inflation being as low as five or six per cent by 30 June being achieved. If I am permitted, I will refer to notes. We have also noted that beyond the Government's control is the price of oil from the Organisation for Petroleum Exporting Countries, which has increased substantially. A warning has emanated from OPEC that the price increases will continue'. Today's news indicates that the increases will continue. We now have a structural problem that this Government has failed to appreciate and failed to solve. It is useless to place upon the organised workers of this country the responsibility for inflation. Inflation has been forced upon us by subtantial increases in a basic commodity. That basic commodity has risen in price from 67c a gallon to well over $ 1 in the capital cities and much above that in the rural areas. This is the cost - 
I did not say I was reading the Leader's speech. I am not reading any speech. 
-Perhaps I am merely representing him in the time slot available. That is all. I simply rose on my feet instead of him. I hope honourable senators accept what I am saying as what my Leader would say. He would say exactly what I am saying but in different terms. He may have different emphases. He may be more gentle about the matter than I am being. In any case, I am rather gentle at this time of night. I could imagine all sorts of unfair things that I could say about the Government side of the chamber. The Government has adopted an oil pricing policy which ensures that the increased price for Australian oil will continue to rise. In addition, the price of foodstuffs, especially fresh meat, is responding to international shortages. There will be continued pressure on demand. If it is not obvious to the Government that this debate, which is an important one, could continue for some time- it has not been obvious up to this point- surely it must become obvious within a minute or so. 
I notice that the honourable senator is not complaining. But I am wondering whether we should return to that little cross discussion that we had earlier tonight, that is, that the Opposition should be able to expect a reasonable program. The Opposition does not mind the Government placing some program on the Notice Paper which it hopes to achieve, but surely it should accept the reality of the situation and say: 'Well, we have made sufficient progress; we may have to make more tomorrow'. Perhaps tomorrow or today would be a better day to do so. 
I trust that that is correct. I had the impression that the reason why we are sitting so late tonight is the intense desire of the Government to get through its program as quickly as possible, even if it has to sit until three o'clock or four o'clock in the morning. If members on the Government side of the chamber are prepared to sit until three o'clock or four o'clock in the morning, including Friday and Saturday mornings, by all means they should do so. But it is a silly way to achieve a program. We will drive Ministers to sleep in the early hours of the morning.  Senator Webster  is completely out to it now. It seems that  Senator Chaney  is of better stamina; he is still awake. Apparently  Senator Webster  has had a hard day and I do not blame him for taking a nap at this time because it has been a long day for us all. 
I take one from time to time. But enough of general conversation; let us return to the Bill before us. If honourable senators recall, I was saying that, in addition, the price of foodstuffs, especially fresh meat, is responding to international shortages and that there will be continued pressure on demand. I do not think that any honourable senator present would deny to the rural producers, especially the beef producers of this country, access to a reasonable market and to reasonable prices, which have been denied to them for so long. However, one has to consider that, as they achieve some sort of satisfaction for their efforts, the price of the commodities which they produce increases under these international pressures to which the Government now admits but to which it would not admit when the Australian Labor Party Government was in power. When the Labor Government was in power, all the faults, all the increases and the level of inflation were due to the errors of the Government and were not in any way due to any external pressure or demand. Now we can start to talk about international pressures again. What was not good enough for the Labor Government to accept as a reason for inflation is good enough for the present Government to accept. It should say: There are some things which are beyond our control'. We said it. We admit that there are some things which are beyond the control of the Government today. 
Under these circumstances, it is not surprising that the community at large will see that the real purchasing power of their wages is seriously eroded. It is only to be expected that pressures for higher money wages will continue to increase. The trade union movement generally has adhered to wage indexation guidelines, in spite of what the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have been trying to say from time to time. Contrary to the rantings of the Prime Minister and some of his colleagues, there has been very little abuse of the wage indexation guidelines. The Government has apparently insulated itself against the cost pressures because of the decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to have wage hearings every six months instead of quarterly. However, what we must observe is that, contrary to the Government's request, sections of industry are agreeing to make over-award payments. 1 might add that this includes sections of industry which have criticised the Government in relation to its policies, and the increases in prices will give those pressures increased impetus. Under these circumstances, even if the tax rate had remained at 32 per cent for the lower income range, the absolute tax take would continue to increase substantially. 
It is therefore apparent that this Government has failed seriously in its budgetary, fiscal and taxation policies. Apart from failing to reduce expenditure as promised, apart from failing to rein in inflation, and apart from failing to rectify our overseas borrowing situation, it has also failed to instil real confidence into the economy for greater investment by industry. Although some of the figures are attractive, the new investment projects which have been announced are selective, and in most cases they are in areas where the Government provides heavy protection. 
The Labor Party sees the provisions of this Bill as being a breach of promise and a disincentive to economic recovery. We see them as a belated indication that the Government's policies have failed. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has indicated that the Budget deficit this year is likely to be in excess of $3, 300m. The figure that I indicated at another time was $4,000m. There is no real prospect that the 1.5 per cent surcharge will be lifted after November. It would not surprise me if the Government was forced to increase the rate of the surcharge. The Treasurer has already foreshadowed that this is possible by his announcement last week that he believed that the concept of the August Budget as the main weapon of economic policy was ill conceived, and that it would be preferable to have a series of major economic statements delivered during the year. What this is really saying is that the Government will tax as heavily as is required, as often as is required, and one cannot rest on the assumption that what the Government announced in August will apply for a 12-month period. 
As if the decisions about personal tax were not bad enough, the Government has also reneged on its promises about the implementation of the report of the Mathews Committee of Inquiry into Inflation and Taxation. The Prime Minister and a number of other Ministers indicated following their election in 1975 that full tax indexation would be introduced, and that it would apply not only to personal income tax but also in industry. The half indexation of the trading stock valuation adjustment was introduced, and industry was told that this was a move towards full indexation. We now find that the Government is unable to keep this promise, and those industries which planned on investment based on receiving the full value of trading stock will be greatly disappointed. This will not do anything to help confidence in the business sector. 
We also find that the Government has reneged on its promise for the introduction of full tax indexation. I suppose I am amused, because in the documents which were presented to the National Conference of the Liberal Party in Perth, we find that one of the achievements listed is full indexation. The Liberal Party, certainly at a machine level, seems to be under a misconception that full indexation is operating in this country. As the Treasurer has revealed in his speech on this Bill, this is not the case. 
This Bill provides, in effect, for a monkeying around with figures. When  Mr Lynch  was Treasurer, we learned that rubbery figures were the order of the day. The present Treasurer appears to go one step further. Not only are his figures rubbery, but also they are extremely elastic and, if at any time the result does not suit him, he alters the figures accordingly. The Opposition is absolutely amazed that the Government should attempt to juggle the indexation factor which is used for tax indexation by reducing the impact of the increase of oil prices. The oil pricing policy is a deliberate action on the part of the Australian Government. The impact of those increases is widespread and virtually every working man is affected by them. As the oil prices increase and retail petrol prices increase accordingly, the Government takes a greater and greater share in the form of excise duty. It is estimated that the measures which will be introduced in supplementary legislation will result in increased revenue in a full financial year of up to $300m. The Government seems intent on reducing the real value of wages by downgrading the impact of the oil price increases. This means that consumers are only partly compensated for price increases through the tax indexation mechanism. 
After the debate last week in which the front page of the  Illawarra Mercury  was displayed prominently to the disadvantage of  Senator McLaren-  I am not allowed to use the word which was stated, but I am allowed to use the word 'untruthful' to describe what the Government has said and done- we are aware that the way in which the indexation factor is manipulated means that the statement in the Liberal Party document presented in Perth is untruthful. It does not explain to the Australian electorate, and particularly to members of the Liberal Party, that they are not enjoying full tax indexation. The three measures in this Bill are a complete abrogation of the Government's promises. Whilst the Press is not to be regarded as the absolute critic of any government's performance, the editorials, the articles and the letters to the editor over the last two weeks must at least illustrate to the Government that it has gained no credibility at all for the breach of promises which it used to induce electoral support in 1975 and 1977. 
The newspapers have indicated that the Prime Minister no longer holds the confidence of this country. He has shown himself to be a man who uses words very loosely. He is prepared to offer what might be called bribes to the electorate in order to gain short term support. What he has failed to say is that in spite of promising small government, in spite of promising the transfer of functions to the States and in spite of promising lower taxation, he has done none of these things. We face the real prospect of the States having to levy State income tax under stage 2 of the new federalism. We have seen the Federal Government with a Ministry the same size as the Whitlam Ministry. As the Prime Minister has failed to answer my question on notice dealing with the transfer of functions to the States, it becomes clearer and clearer that this Government, in spite of its protestations of support for States' rights, is possessed with the desire to hold onto the powers it has. I am thankful for the noninterruption by honourable senators because it might slow me up to move away from my notes. 
The point has been reached in Australian politics where the electorate now sees that the Fraser Government is not to be trusted, that its promises are of little value and that it is prepared to milk the community for all that it can get in order to cover up for its economic incompetence. It probably hurts the Government to look back at its dismal record because, in 1975, the now deposed Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  and other Ministers made great play of the fact that a Liberal-Country Party Government would be better economic managers. In fact, the contrary has proved to be the case. This Bill is one of many that we will receive over the next few days which attempts to put into operation the Government's wishywashy economic policies. If there was any courage amongst the Fraser Ministry they would go to the polls immediately and see what judgment the electorate delivers. I notice that it startles everyone that a suggestion should be made that it should go to the people. The Australian Labor Party does not have the numbers to do exactly to the Liberal Party as it did to us. I often wonder, if we ever reached that situation, whether we would move away from the principle that we have that the Senate should not frustrate the House of Representatives or whether in a moment of retaliation we might do exactly that. If that does happen, the Government would deserve it. I suggest that this Government should be thrown out by the ears. For that reason the Opposition opposes this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I take the opportunity in the third reading debate on these Bills to remind the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  that when he is responding to matters raised in the second reading debate he should confine his remarks to the matter of the debate and should not indulge in - 
-Not only should he not indulge in personalities; he should also not indulge in antics not befitting this chamber. 
-He should not indulge in antics which are not relevant to the legislation before the Senate. There has been an unusual calm about this place since 2.30 this morning. I thought that we had all learnt our lesson and that we would proceed quietly without violent interruptions. But what happened in the debate on these Bills? The Minister rose to reply in the second reading debate and, instead of accepting his responsibility to get the legislation through this place, he began to hurl insults which were not at all relevant to the legislation. The moral of the lesson I am preaching at present is that I trust that the Minister has no further Bills to take through this place today. If he has, perhaps he will keep within the Standing Orders. 
I thank  Senator Knight  for giving me the few moments I need to speak so that  Senator Tate  will have time to come into the chamber and make a short speech in this debate. 
-He could make his comments in the debate on the first reading of a Bill, but if he did that he might take three times as long. If the honourable senator is not in the chamber within a couple of minutes, it will be clear that he really does not intend to speak tonight. Let me say that our program today has been achieved in harmony and perhaps a lesson has been learned. 
-I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Has the Attorney-General's Department received instructions from the Public Service Board to draft regulations prescribing a reason for redeployment of Public Service staff? If that is the case, would that not be in anticipation and direct contravention of legislation which has not passed this Parliament which states among other things that regulations prescribing a reason for redeployment of public servants shall not be made except after consultation with organisations representing the interests of employees? 
I take this opportunity of saying a few words on this Supply Bill. In doing so, I remind the Government of what it did some years ago in blocking Supply and bringing down the elected government of the people. Apparently  Senator Archer  needs to be reminded because he is looking at me with some amazement. I remind him that that is exactly what happened. I would not like these Supply Bills to go through without some reference to that occasion and without saying that we were strongly opposed to the Senate rejecting Supply on that occasion and we are still strongly opposed to the Senate rejecting Supply. The matters to which I refer are now historic. I do not wish to enlarge upon them, but I thought I should remind the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  who is sitting here so complacently as this Bill is going through so rapidly, that Supply did not go through so rapidly in the latter months of 1975. 1 hope that he accepts some responsibility for that. I hope he is embarrassed by it. If he is not, then he ought to be. 
-by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I take this opportunity to repeat some comments which were made last year concerning the presentation of reports at such a late stage of the session. When I raised this matter on 24 November 1978 there was general agreement across the chamber that reports of this sort should not be presented at this late stage. It is proposed to present a considerable number of reports today, some of which are very important. For instance, it is proposed to present the report of the Law Reform Commission on Unfair Publications: Defamation and Privacy. This report and a number of other reports which are listed for presentation today ought to be commented on when they come before the Senate. It is not sufficient for the Press to take up the reports the day after they are presented and that we should have available to us only the critique of the correspondent who has noted and written about them. 
I take this opportunity to say that there was general agreement last year when this matter was raised that the program of the Senate should not be increased by the presentation of a whole host of important reports. However, again this year, on the second last day of the session, a great number of reports are to be presented. In fact, the comments made in the Senate the last time this occurred have been ignored. I will not go too much further into this matter I just want to give a warning that the next time important reports are presented on the second last day or the last day of a session I will move that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me from moving a motion to postpone the presentation of such papers until after consideration of Government Business. This is the only way in which we will get departments to understand that they ought not to complicate our program in the last two or three days of a session by having their reports presented at that stage. 
Over the next two days members of the Opposition will truncate their speaking time- as they have done over the past day or so- in order to allow the program to be met. Surely the Senate would not accept that departments should be allowed to present important reports at a time when comment or debate cannot take place on them. 

 -Mr President, we have agreed in the past, and are likely to agree tomorrow when  Senator Rae  moves his motion, to the tabling of reports when the Senate is not sitting. However, I have one or two queries as to the status of those reports. Perhaps we should receive some advice as to the status of reports tabled during the recess. I think it would be wise to do so for a variety of reasons relating to privilege and other considerations. It is also necessary to establish whether or not this is a procedure that ought to be encouraged. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 42 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-by leave- I refer briefly to an editorial in the  Courier-Mail  on 19 August headed 'The jailing of  Senator Georges  '. The editorial states: 
Labor's  Senator Georges,  in his self-appointed and quite tiresome role of political martyr, must have been absolutely delighted at being put in the Brisbane Jail 's punishment cells on half rations. 
This was an excellent attention-getting performance. 
Now he is out, because somebody paid his fines, as somebody always does when the  Senator plays  Boggo Road. He does not have to languish on bread and water, or whatever consists of half rations in 1 979 Queensland. 
The editorial continues, and I will refer shortly to other sections of it. 
The  Courier-Mail  has a right to express an opinion according to its version of events and to put whatever construction it wishes on my actions. Nevertheless, I also have a right to try to correct the position presented by the editorial. Let me say that my motives were quite contrary to those implied in the editorial in the  CourierMail.  On Wednesday, 14 August, a police officer called at my home to serve a warrant for my arrest. It was a public holiday and he arrived at 7.30 a.m. I said to him that it was unfortunate that I had a medical appointment with an eye specialist at 8 o'clock. He said to me, with courtesy: 'By all means keep the appointment. I will be back at 10.30.' I said that that should be sufficient time for me to keep the appointment. Between 7.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m.- three hours- I had sufficient time, had I wished to do so, to make arrangements to have the television and media people informed that I was to be arrested at home for failing to pay a $50 fine. However, it was not my intention to seek publicity in this way for my action, an action that I did not take alone. Whether people agree with it or not, many others have taken the action of resisting or breaking a law, knowing that the consequences have to be accepted. That is the position. I know that if I am in breach of a regulation or a lawand it is my right to breach it- I must accept the consequences of breaking that law or regulation. 
It depends on the way one looks at it. Yes, during this campaign we were endeavouring to attract attention to a law. But I have been in politics long enough to know that one can be over-exposed. If one is prepared to adhere to a principle and one may go to the point where people consider one tiresome, any publicity obtained can be counter-productive. Nevertheless, I made no attempt to seek any publicity on this occasion for my arrest. The only telephone call I made was to inform the  Clerk  of the Senate that I would be arrested, that my penalty was seven days' gaol, that it was possible that that would cut into my arrangements to attend the Parliament, and that it was my understanding that the person responsible for my arrest should notify the  President.  However, that is a matter I will take up later, as a matter that may have to be decided by the Senate. While I was at the Mitchelton police station, television station Channel 7 rang up and wanted to speak to me. The officers at the police station asked whether I wanted to speak to Channel 7 and I said that I was not interested. On my journey from the Mitchelton police station to the gaol, by arrangement there was no communication between the police car and headquarters because, as the police officers told me, the media pick up police broadcasts. So we deliberately had no communication whatsoever between the police car and headquarters, in order to prevent the media from picking up any information. I give the Senate these facts in order to indicate that I was not intending to make a publicity exercise of this. 
Having arrived at Boggo Road and having been taken through the reception centre, I was held for some time in a yard; I was not allocated to any cell. On a previous occasion when I was in Boggo Road, I came up against a regulation, Regulation 225, which required that any prisoner, whenever he was mustered for any reason or paraded before a warder or an officer, spring to attention, take one pace forward, say 'Here, sir' and give a military salute in recognition of the authority of the Sovereign. It was in January of this year that I first objected to that regulation and, knowing the consequences of refusing to obey that regulation, I refused to salute. I took it as being primitive. I took it as being degrading. I took it as being unnecessary and having the very opposite effect of what was intended, in my opinion it brought the Sovereign into disrepute to have some poor unfortunate salute a warder perhaps five or six times a day. I refused to salute. That was last January. So honourable senators may have it clear in their minds that the breach of the regulation had first occurred at least eight months previously. Yet the  CourierMail  in its editorial says that I engaged in a publicity seeking exercise; that this was an excellent attention getting performance. 
I knew the consequences of refusing to salute. I knew that that would mean detention in an underground cell, and the cell is underground. I was told by other prisoners that I would face reduced rations and long periods in isolation and in the dark. I knew that. Yet I accepted, in disobeying that regulation, that that was to be the consequence. 1 took no pleasure at all in that, contrary to what that editorial indicated. As I subsequently discovered, there is a prison within a prison in Boggo Road, and possibly in other prisons. When I was taken underground the simple garments that I was given as a prisoner at Boggo Road were taken away from me. I was put into the most indescribable garment- a flannelette vest which was not hemmed. It was cut out by scissors but it was not hemmed. I was not allowed underclothing. The clothes did not fit. The buttons did not meet. 
Subsequently, I was taken into a cell where the temperature was deliberately kept below normal. It was very cold indeed. I was forced to go into that cell, face the wall and hold my hands above my head. I was told that on every occasion on which a warder came into that cell I was to get to my feet, face the wall and raise my hands. I was prepared to accept that situation. I was prepared to accept being bawled out and told that my blankets had to be folded in a particular way, that 1 had to fold my toilet paper in a particular way and that I should create no noise and keep myself clean. All of those things I was prepared to do, but I was not prepared to salute a warder in recognition of the authority of the Sovereign, as it was put. What enraged me was the fact that when it came time to put out lights I was stood over by two warders and forced to undress in front of them. As we get older we like privacy. I do not like to be stood over by two people, who demand that I get out of the flimsy clothes I am wearing and get into some broken down pyjamas, and then to be told that I have four blankets to keep me warm, and a mattress which is a converted foot mat- nothing more nor lessthat I have to suffer the cold, and that at regular intervals a flap in the door to the isolation cell will be opened and the cell will be inspected. That is what happened during the coldest night that 1 have ever spent. Those are the conditions which are imposed upon people. 
Having been taken out of the cell next morning and paraded at the surgery- I received good treatment and good medication there, and an order was given by the doctor to return my underclothing- I was subsequently paraded before another officer who ordered me to salute him. I was already charged with and had received a penalty of 48 hours solitary confinement for not saluting, and here I was again paraded before a warder, a commissioned officer, who demanded that I salute him. When I did not salute him, he put me on a further charge. 
So honourable senators can see how my problem was going to continue endlessly, for seven days. To make matters worse, at 12 o'clock the following day someone paid my fine. Whoever paid my fine did me a favour, in getting me out of those conditions, out of that cell, because I was facing at least another night there. I do not know who paid the fine, but possibly he did me a favour. Nevertheless, I am now being told in an editorial in the  Courier-Mail  that I may have been part of the arrangement. I consider that to be a complete fabrication. That was not the only newspaper which said that. The  Telegraph  said exactly the same, and the  Sunday Sun  said exactly the same, namely, that I was engaged in a publicity seeking exercise. They reduced my actions to the lowest possible level, and I resent it. At a later stage I intend to seek a reference to the Standing Committee on Social Welfare to investigate the conditions under which prisoners who are in breach of Federal law are held in Australian prisons. 
Sitting suspended f rom 6.3 to 8 p.m.  ( Quorum formed). 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I wonder whether the Minister could give us some explanation of this item. I am not being difficult about it. If I were I would have asked him for an explanation of the previous item. That would have put him into a real flap. We are asked to note the item rather than in any way to endorse the proposition contained in it. Perhaps the Minister can explain why that is. 
Junior officers have been lumbered- that is the only word for it- to appear before Estimates committees and assume responsibility for answering questions on behalf of their departments and committees have been experiencing great difficulty in getting the necessary information from high level representatives. My view has always been that at some time during a committee's hearing the head of the department should at least have the courtesy to attend and introduce his most senior officers. We have fallen into the practice of accepting junior officers and I thought that item No. 3 would have sought to change that. Apparently, however, we are merely to note the item and the departments are to do whatever they like in regard to representation before Estimates committees. I believe that the matter is an important one. These committees fulfil a valuable role and the departments ought to realise that we will not be fobbed off by departments sending junior officers. If it is good enough for a Minister or the representative of a Minister to appear and to answer questions, the head of a department or at least the next in line also should be prepared to appear. We ought to take stronger action than merely taking note of Item 3. 
Now that the matter has been extended, I would like to put more firmly that we need to amend this proposition because my view of it is that representation before the committees has not been adequate in the main, but inadequate, and that this ought to be expressed in the report. Of course, if it were the departments will take notice of it. We have had an unequal representation before the committees. If it is good enough for the  President  of the Senate to appear to lead his departmental officers in answering the questions that committee members put, I believe that we ought to establish that as the procedure for each department. Not only has the appearance of departmental officers been inadequate before the Estimates committees but it has become totally inadequate when we go into the Committee of the Whole. On some occasions we do not even have the  President  present. When matters are being discussed in the Committee of the Whole no departmental officers are present, or perhaps only one is present. For that reason, I believe that we should amend this proposition and make it much more definite. The report states: 
In the main, the Committee considers that departmental representation before Estimates committees has been adequate. However- 
We should change the word 'adequate' to 'inadequate', and then omit the word 'However'. It would then read: 
In the main, the Committee considers that departmental representation before Estimates committees has been inadequate. The Committee agrees with the opinion previously expressed by Estimates committees that departmental witnesses appearing before the committees should be of sufficient seniority to ensure that the fullest possible information is provided. 
That would strengthen the proposition set out in item 3. That would make the proposition definite. There is a firm opinion that the representation has been inadequate. By dropping the word 'However' the following sentence would flow sensibly. For that reason I intend to move that the word 'adequate' be removed and the word 'inadequate' be inserted; and that the word 'However' which follows be removed. 

 Senator Sir CONDOR LAUCKE (South Australia) (3.8)- I refer to the words in this report that suggest that on occasions there has been inadequacy in the departmental representation before Estimates committees. Personally, I believe that this report and this debate will have a salutary effect on departments whose responsibility it is to ensure that they come forward with explanations and representations satisfactory to the Senate, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  a little while ago indicated they should. I think at this stage a noting of this expression of opinion of various committees is in itself pro tern sufficient and could well be looked at again later in the light of how committees view personnel who come before them to give evidence or information in respect of their departments. 
-It has been pointed out that what I am doing is an absurdity. Surely it is an absurdity if, having received the report from our own Standing Orders Committee, we can do nothing about amending a proposition except by a complete refusal to pass it. I am not suggesting that we should go to that extent. I am not suggesting that we should take out of the report those parts that are a move in the right direction. If that is the only means available to me to strengthen this report, of course, I ought to cease my opposition. 
If I amend the motion, what do I achieve? 
-How about the benefit of your advice? 
I wish to make further comments about the motion before the Chair. 
We do not want a division. Some Government members want to debate the Customs Bill this afternoon; perhaps they will get an opportunity. Despite what  Senator Missen  has said, he and Government members- particularly  Senator Lewis-  have led the Committee into an absurdity. Nevertheless, this absurdity can be sustained. The opinion of the Senate Standing Orders Committee is that, in the main, the representation has been adequate. I am trying to impress upon senators that the Committee as a whole does not think so. Unfortunately, since the Government is not prepared to amend the report, we have to add an opinion to it, which places us in the situation which was so aptly described by  Senator Missen.  In spite of realising this, I feel that I must persist and suggest that the amendment receives the support it deserves. Perhaps I should not have finished in that way, because it may do so. I believe it deserves a much better fate than it is likely to get. 
I know it is necessary for me to enter the debate on this part of the report. I agree with what the Government Whip had to say. By arrangement we have been endeavouring to shorten the debating time on the debates under consideration. I know  Senator Cavanagh  objects strongly to this because he believes that an attack upon debating time is an attack upon the rights of senators. However, we believe it possible to engage in a more effective debate if the period is two hours rather than three. What has happened in the past is that the argument has been placed effectively by the lead and supporting speakers, but the sixth, seventh and eighth speakers are at a disadvantage in that the material that they have available to them has already been used and the speeches become highly repetitive. 
I make this point to the Government: It is all very well to accept this amendment to the Standing Orders, but we would like to have an understanding from Government senators that they will keep to the Standing Order and will not apply the gag after 1 1 1/2 hours as they have been doing. We have not been able recently to come to an agreement that there should be one lead  speaker  and two subsequent speakers. We have been forced into a situation, even this week, of having to face the gag after two speakers. The debate has been truncated to an hour and a half. It is all very well for the Government Whip to put the case for a debate of two hours and to say that one lead  speaker  and two supporting speakers are sufficient. If that is the case and that is the Government's view, we are prepared to go along with the recommendation. If the Government is prepared to apply the gag the Standing Order may as well stay as it is because, in effect, the Government decides how long the debates shall be and gags them. Even today, if I remember rightly,  Senator Rocher  had to gag himself. He had quite a deal to say, and after five minutes he was obliged to apply the gag to himself. 
Was it enough? Could all that the honourable senator had to say be said in five minutes? I think he was developing an argument which he cut short. In any case, if the honourable senator was not prepared to listen to it, we were. Let us have the understanding that, if we are to change the Standing Order, let us rid ourselves of the use of the gag. If the gag is to be applied, why bother with changing the existing Standing Order? There may be, as  Senator Cavanagh  suggested, some occasions when we need three hours for debate.  His  case is supported if the Government is to apply the gag after one and a half speeches. I consider that two hours for debate and three speakers from each side is a reasonable proposition for an effective debate. After that time we can come to a vote. 
-I do not know whether  Senator Missen  is prepared to accept any support from me; nevertheless, I am about to give it. That, of course, places me in some disadvantage with  Senator Cavanagh,  but we can discuss that at a later stage. It seems to me that  Senator Missen  is correct: Although in the past we have had before us a proposition for the referral of Bills to a standing committee, and although, as  Senator Cavanagh  said, we have not used that device because we have not wanted it anyhow, I do not think we have applied our minds to the benefits of the proposition. One benefit is that the Senate can escape what often happens in this place. I refer to the practice, especially towards the end of a session, of rushing through or sometimes guillotining procedures which are sometimes important. 
If the proposal is for procedures to be the same as are used in the House of Representatives, by all means I would say that they are not acceptable and that  Senator Cavanagh  is right, that the Committee would meet while the Senate was sitting and that would be definitely a disadvantage. We have been through that in relation to other matters. What this proposes is that we should adopt as a formality what we have done on a couple of occasions with considerable advantage. I do not recall the Bills but  Senator Missen  may recall them where certain legislation went to special committees. In this case it would be a standing committee. 
Perhaps I am not as well read on this as I should be. Nevertheless it appeared to me that the principle is the same, that legislation is taken to an all-party committee to be closely scrutinised without the disadvantage of party alignments, which takes place here. Good sense prevails in those situations, and in that way legislation can be improved considerably. 
-That is what I say;  Senator Missen  and I could do well with most legislation brought into this place, if we were given some means or the authority to look at it. In my opinion, a committee of two would be of tremendous benefit, both to the legislation and ultimately to the Senate and the Parliament. But the honourable senator diverts me. I am supporting the proposition that  Senator Missen  puts, that perhaps we should delay this provision to another time. Even if it is not used, what is lost? It is there if we should wish to take advantage of it. 
I am putting it to you that even if it were used it would be of benefit rather than a disadvantage. It seems to me that even the most controversial legislation can be improved without the sometimes very lengthy and, I was going to say, limited debates that take place here in the Committee of the Whole, with the rest of Senate being somewhat at a loss. Another advantage is that this does extend the actual working time of the Senate on legislation. 
To me that seems to be an advantage. I would support  Senator Missen  's proposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Item 8. 
Motion (by  Senator Guilfoyle)  agreed to: 
That the proposed amendment to Standing Order 440 be agreed to. 
Item 9. 
Motion (by  Senator Guilfoyle)  agreed to: 
That Item 9 be noted. 
Resolutions reported; report adopted. 
-by leave- I would like, for the record, to introduce a note of caution. We would now appear to be lending to these papers a certain authenticity, or currency, that they did not have before. 
-Well, we are giving them a currency that they did not possess before. I would have liked to consider the matter a little further. Since we have had the assurance of the Leader of the Government that he has presented these documents in the best interests of the person concerned, I do not want to hamper his action in any way. Nevertheless, before papers of this nature are given the privilege of being tabled in this place, for further use or misuse, the matter should be given considerable thought. 
I have the right to speak. The Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  has only one way out. The motion gives me the opportunity to say briefly why it is important that this debate take place. However, there is a substantial report to be presented by three honourable senators who took part in a mission to Africa. We expected that we would debate both the statement on the Lusaka Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting and that report within the next fortnight. There is substantial disagreement with what has been said by  Senator Wheeldon.  It may seem strange that the Opposition should be divided in its attitude. I believe that  Senator Wheeldon  was carried away by his eloquence and took a position - 
I know that he is on the record; he is very much on the record. That is one of the dangers of a person allowing his eloquence to get away with him. 
Yes, that is right. I was warned early in the piece that a closed mouth gathers no flies. I have always ignored that sort of advice from  Senator Button.  He should have directed that advice to  Senator Wheeldon.  Nevertheless, what has emerged up to this point is the urgency to debate the statement as soon as possible. I hope that the Government will bring this matter on for debate quickly so that  Senator Sibraa, Senator Knight,  myself and others can enter into the debate and show a considerable measure of opposition to what has been said up to this point. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Having heard the debate tonight I can only shake my head in despair. Two excellent committee reports have been brought down after investigations into the drug problem in Australia and we have had several debates. We do not seem to be any clearer about what ought to be done. This proposed legislation is not the answer. I think that it is an exercise in futility. All that will develop out of this legislation is a more aggressive Narcotics Bureau supported by various drug squads in the States which will lead to an escalation and not a decrease in the problem. That has been the experience in the United States. We seem always to follow that country's experience a generation later. With this legislation we will create the Al Capones who were created during the prohibition period in the United States. There is another answer to the problem. This legislation certainly is not the answer. It seems to me that what  Senator Baume  said concerning the need to reduce drug usage in the community is the answer, but this legislation certainly will not achieve that. 
My purpose in speaking tonight is to move an amendment on behalf of the Opposition. The amendment to the motion 'That this Bill be now read a second time 'reads as follows: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and not proceeded with until the current police inquiry into the Narcotics Bureau and the Williams Royal Commission have been completed '. 
It is obvious that the Opposition has come to the conclusion that we need to know the determination of the Williams royal commission in particular. In taking its findings together with the recommendations of our two committees we may come to a conclusion which is quite different from that which is provided for by this Customs Amendment Bill. I believe that the proposition is reasonable and should be supported, lt will give us sufficient time to reconsider some of the draconian- or should I say draconic- measures in this Bill. I think we have had a debate about that before. By punishment alone we will not achieve the results that we are looking for. For that reason we will have to reconsider the position of cannabis and whether we should take the drug out of the area of criminality. We also have to consider the proposition, which  Senator Chipp  touched on towards the end of his speech, and that is that we ought to be taking the profit motive out of the heroin traffic and at least take away the great weapon which the pusher usesthe forced addiction of young people especially- so that the addicts have no dependency on those who push this horrific drug. The methods used in the United Kingdom and in other places may be methods which we can introduce. I have been given a wind up signal, I think. Having listened to this debate now for at least two days and having-- 
Oh, I see. I will see what 1 can do about that. Getting back to the serious proposition which I am putting, if we can remove the profitability of trafficking we will see a sharp decrease in the activities of those people who now make vast profits. If I recall correctly, in the investigation which was undertaken by the Mariott committee of the Senate in 1968, 1969 and 1 970 we found it particularly difficult to discover any evidence of pronounced heroin addiction or trafficking. In fact, it was practically unknown. I do not think that we had any such evidence before the committee. Not one addict came before the committee in those hearings. Yet now, nine years later, we have a problem of great magnitude. All the attempts which have been made, all the penalties which have been imposed and the new laws which have been enacted by the States have not diminished the traffic in any way. I repeat my belief that the legislation before us will achieve nothing more than to open up a vast area of potential corruption, increase the price of the drug and force people into crime in order to support their drug addiction. It will escalate the problem to horrific levels. 
I come back to the proposition which I put in moving my amendment. I am not suggesting that we should invite  Senator Evans  to take advantage of the opportunity afforded him by my moving that amendment and to answer  Senator Chipp,  but he will now have the opportunity to do so if he so desires. If  Senator Baume  has not completed his argument on the subject, I remind him that my moving the amendment has given him the opportunity to do so. If he wishes to extend this debate by a further five minutes, although I am not quite certain why he wishes to do so, perhaps he will take up that invitation. I repeat my amendment, which reads: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and not proceeded with until the current police inquiry into the narcotics bureau and the Williams Royal Commission have been completed.' 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Collard)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
I present the following petition from 320 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That further cutbacks in Commonwealth funding to State Schools and transferral of funds to wealthy independent schools as required under the guidelines to the Schools Commission announced by the Minister for Education in early June are of vital concern in that they mitigate against the interests of the great majority of Australian Children in State Schools. 
That Queensland State Schools have not reached the Resource Usage Targets set by the Schools Commission, and even at those financial levels will fall well short of actual provision standards envisaged by the Commission. 
That Queensland's effort in respect of Capital works is particularly of concern being less than half the per capita effort of other States. 
Your petitioners therefore call on their legislators to ensure- 
That Federal funding to State Schools is restored to at least 1974-75 levels; 
the independence of the Schools Commission to recommend the allocation of funds to schools on the basis of need, unhindered by Government directives; and 
that sufficient funds are provided to Queensland, appropriately tied, to ensure achievement of National standards in this State. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
1 ) That the following matters be referred to the Committee of Privileges- 
the failure of any appropriate authority in Queensland to advise the  President  of the Senate of the arrest and imprisonment of  Senator George  Georges; 
whether the matter leading to the arrest and imprisonment of  Senator Georges  was of a civil or criminal nature; and 
whether, if the Committee determines that the matter was of a civil nature, the arrest and imprisonment of  Senator Georges  constituted a breach of the privileges of the Senate. 
That, notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders, the Privileges Committee for the purposes of its inquiry and report shall have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
I take the opportunity in the debate on the motion that the Senate take note of the report to make some comments. It is obvious that when we deal with these reports at the time of their presentation, it is the firm intention of the person who moves that the Senate take note of the report that he will engage in some debate on the matter. If he intends to speak to the motion but it is not convenient to do so at the time the matter is called on, he should take the steps necessary to have the matter postponed. On the other hand, if the report has become irrelevant because of the passage of time, then of course we should drop it from the Notice Paper. We should not go through the farce of allowing reports to pass through this place so rapidly. A senator may be interested in a report but because he does not expect to have it debated on a particular night he neglects to do the necessary work to support his comments on the matter. We could accelerate our way through the Notice Paper tonight to the disadvantage of a senator who wants to speak to a report and has not had sufficient time to prepare. 
I cannot engage in a debate on this matter with  Senator Cavanagh.  Perhaps when I have finished  Senator Cavanagh  can put his point of view. I think that we are in agreement. We are now debating General Business Order of the Day No.11 which concerns the report on processing law reform proposals by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The matter is not listed on the business sheet and therefore  Senator Evans  who was granted leave to continue his remarks may not be aware that the matter has been called on. 
-Perhaps he is perfectly aware of it but does not wish to speak. 
-He does wish to speak? 
-The point I am making- some other honourable senator may wish to speak on it- is that unless an item appears on the business sheet it is likely to escape the attention of the honourable senator who has been granted leave to continue his remarks that the matter may be debated. It is only 9 o'clock and, at the rate we are moving through the Notice Paper, we possibly will finish General Business Order of the Day No. 22 or No. 24. 
If the honourable senator thinks that that is jolly good the matters should not be on the Notice Paper in the first place. I am guilty of seeking leave to continue my remarks on a number of matters because I understood that the Senate was interested in them. I am finding myself in the awkward position of having to allow matters to go by for which I have been granted leave to continue my remarks and about which I know very little, if anything. I am starting to feel embarrassed by the fact that some matters are standing in my name and that I am sitting here and saying nothing on them at all. 
-The honourable senator is completely out of order.  Her  comments are also completely unfair. I put it to the Senate that we will have to take more care now and look at these reports from time to time. Those which are not relevant should be dropped from the Notice Paper so that at least we will know exactly what we are doing. 
I wish to speak on the same matter,  Mr President. Senator McLaren  is not here tonight. He was paired in anticipation of attending a meeting of a parliamentary delegation of which he is a member. I do not doubt that if he had been here he would have accepted the case put by  Senator Martin  and  Senator MacGibbon.  They pointed out something of which  Senator McLaren  and perhaps many of us may not have been aware, namely, that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was the approving authority. Perhaps we considered that he was the approving authority for a flight; that at any time he could authorise a flight from one place to another. But apparently, according to the rules which have been outlined tonight, he also is the approving authority for people who travel with him. That is a fairly wide privilege for him to have. 
There is one point I want to make to both  Senator Martin  and  Senator MacGibbon.  The Prime Minister undertook a flight throughout Queensland. I draw an analogy with a visit by him to a particular electorate to attend a particular function. It is quite possible that in such a situation he would issue an invitation to be present to the political representative of that area. That courtesy is normally extended. Even if the representative of the area concerned were a member of the Australian Labor Party he would issue an invitation to him. If that procedure is not followed now, it must be a thing of the past. 
No, there are three Labor representatives. The point I am making is that the Prime Minister was travelling through various areas of Queensland, and quite rightly so because they are important areas and he ought to see them. He took it upon himself to invite Queensland senators to accompany him on those flights. The point I am making is that as a matter of courtesy he should have extended to the rest of the Queensland senators an invitation to accompany him on those flights. He should not have confined his invitation to members of his own party. The flights for which he is the approving authority are public flights. He has the privilege of controlling them. He took it upon himself to invite  Senator Martin  and  Senator MacGibbon.  I accept that he had the right to do so. But I would have thought that on flights of that nature he would at least have extended the invitation- it might have been refused- to the other Queensland representatives. An issue has surfaced which ought to be looked at, namely, whether the Prime Minister is entitled to extend his authority to invite selectively representatives from his own party in a particular electorate and to ignore others. 
I am not saying that. Perhaps I could say that, but I am not doing so. I am merely saying that the Prime Minister was in Queensland and making public flights- flights of the people. He invited certain senators from his own party to accompany him but neglected to invite other representatives. In future when he is travelling in a particular State and invites senators from that State to accompany him, I think that out of courtesy he ought to invite all the senators from that State to accompany him. 
-1 present the following petition from 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That further cutbacks in Commonwealth funding to State Schools and transferral of funds to wealthy independent schools as required under the guidelines to the Schools Commission announced by the Minister for Education in early June arc of vital concern in that they mitigate against the interests of the great majority of Australian Children in State Schools. 
That Queensland State Schools have not reached the Resource Usage Targets set by the Schools Commission, and even at those financial levels will fall well short of actual provision standards envisaged by the Commission. 
That Queensland's effort in respect of Capital works is particularly of concern being less than half the per capita effort of other States. 
Your petitioners therefore call on their legislators to ensure: 
That Federal funding to State Schools is restored to at least 1974-75 levels; 
the independence of the Schools Commission to recommend the allocation of funds to schools on the basis of need, unhindered by Government directive; and 
that sufficient funds are provided to Queensland, appropriately tied, to ensure achievement of National standards in this State. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the agreement between the European Space Agency and Australia. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I listened to his answer carefully and, following on that, I ask: How can he justify the return of moneys by  Mr Porter,  the Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs, to the Commonwealth Government, moneys that could have been used in support of the program he mentioned? Will he give a clear explanation of how he will make certain that moneys made available to the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland are fully used when these problems still exist? 
-by leave- On behalf of  Senator McLaren,  I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I am tempted to take advantage of the interjection of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  to speak about  Animal Farm,  but I will not. I am certain that  Senator 
McLaren will have something to say on this report when he returns from his duties overseas. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- It is necessary for the Senate to debate fully the report that has been brought down and to agree to the recommendation set out. Having listened to what  Senator Jessop  said, I am not clear that that analysis is essentially correct or, if it is correct, whether we should continue to follow those precedents. We had a rather emotive debate- I was going to say hectic- on this matter when  Senator Townley  was in the chair, and it did seem that there were substantial restrictions on many honourable senators. Having investigated the precedents, the Privileges Committee has presented a report, and I think that at an opportune time the Senate should examine the report and voice either support or disapproval. 
Yes. Perhaps that ought to be moved formally. I do not know what the procedure is. 
If the Government is prepared to accept that, I seek leave to move a motion. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That the report of the Committee of Privileges be referred to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration. 
I am pleased that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has given the assurance that this matter will be debated at an appropriate time. I wonder whether he could accept also that it ought to be debated at an early time. This matter is of considerable importance to those of us who reside in Queensland. We are rapidly getting to the point of accepting that no progress has been made in Queensland in spite of the repression that many of us have suffered and that there needs to be some national legislation in this regard. I would have thought that this paper might lead to a debate which may lead to a reference to a committee which may in turn lead to national legislation. At this point I am just putting forward that it be debated very soon. My remarks would be irrelevant if I sought to take the debate much further. It is important that we consider this matter at an early date. I think that it will become an order of the day, and we have a very lengthy list of orders of the day. If we could have moved a motion in this regard tomorrow we could have placed it for debate in General Business where there are not too many items for debate. I do not know whether we can bring it on by arrangement for debate on General Business night instead of waiting for many months. I think it ought to be debated this session instead of next year. 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs,  Mr Charles  Porter, will visit Europe next month to present what he calls the real facts about Queensland conditions for Aborigines? Does the Minister agree that the real facts of the Queensland Government's treatment of its Aboriginal people are likely to present a highly unfavourable, even racist, picture of Australia's treatment of its Aboriginal people? If so, will the Minister use his influence to see that  Mr Porter  stays in Queensland and - 
We could send him to Alaska or perhaps Siberia. Will the Minister use his influence to see that  Mr Porter  stays in Queensland and spends time allocating the millions of dollars of Commonwealth funds for Aboriginal programs which are still unspent by the Queensland Government? 
I refer the Minister for Social Security to the fact that the  Chairman  of the Federal Government's Homeless Persons Advisory Committee,  Mr Doug  Schwede. has stated that Brisbane now has about 1,200 park dwellers, almost half of them being under 30 years ofage, and that the number has doubled in less than two years. Given that  Mr Schwede  puts the situation down to the fact that people cannot survive on the present level of unemployment benefits, can the Minister advise when the Government intends to increase the benefits for unemployed homeless persons to a humane level? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that the Reverend John Woodley has resigned from the Social Security Appeals Tribunal in Queensland, saying that the Tribunal is too bound up with bureaucracy and limited by regulations to help anyone? Is the Minister concerned that he should say that under present conditions it is a waste of time to appeal against the Department's decision to cut off the dole or any other benefit? Has the Minister investigated these complaints? If so, has she any proposals to reform the Social Security Appeals Tribunal? 
I seek leave to move that the Senate take note of some of these papers. 
Leave granted. 
-On behalf of  Senator McLaren,  I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report on the Operation of the Poultry Industry Assistance Act 1978-79, the Wine Board Annual Report for 1978-79, and the annual report of Australian Pig Industry Research Committee, 1 979. 
I do this because I am sure that  Senator McLaren  would want to say something on these matters when he returns. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate take note of the Public Accounts Committee report presented by  Senator Lajovic  and the statement made by him. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether he recalls that several times this year he has made the emphatic statement that interest rates would go down. Is it not a fact that interest rates have steadily been going up? Is it not also a fact that the recent sharp increase in interest rates in the United States will have repercussions in Australia? If so, what is the likely extent of those repercussions? Are they likely to lead to the Government's increasing interest rates in this country? I ask that the Minister give an emphatic reply to that question. 
I wish to speak to that. As we have one minute to go before 11 o'clock I foreshadow a further amendment that I be given 10 minutes to speak on this matter. I do that because it is fairly obvious from the remarks made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  that he has indicated the level to which he is prepared to go to assist  Senator Harradine  in the rather questionable initiative that he took earlier tonight. It must now be apparent that we have to talk out this matter. For the Leader of the Government in the Senate to accuse us of using a variety of devices is, I would say- I find it difficult not to use the word 'hypocritical'hypocritical of him because really he is responsible for the situation in which we find ourselves. 
Well, he is a dissembler. 
Debate interrupted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. With respect to the new application for continuation of unemployment benefits forms issued by the Commonwealth Employment Service, has the Minister been informed that the Southport branch of the CES is advising people that they must list at least 20 jobs that they have inquired about over the preceding two weeks? How many positions must people apply for or make inquiries about before they are entitled to unemployment benefits? 
It is unwise for the Leader of the Government  (Senator Carrick)  to introduce new matters at the Committee stage of the debate because it leads to the necessity of rebuttal. He referred with great emphasis to the ballots of 1975 and 1 977 when the will of the people prevailed. I can take him back a little further than that- to 1 972 and 1974, but particularly to 1974, when the will of the people prevailed. The then Opposition refused to accept that verdict and immediately began to institute a series of procedures in order to defeat the elected government of the day, and it succeeded. The device that was used was a similar Bill to that before us. The Leader of the Government needs to be reminded again and again that the then Opposition used the Loan Bill in this place as a device to stop the flow of funds to the community in order to defeat the elected government of the day. 
Let us not refer to the ballot boxes of 1975 or 1977 because the then Opposition took the elected government of the day to the ballot box at the height of its unpopularity. In fact that is what we should be doing now if we had the numbers which honourable senators opposite had on that occasion. They got the numbers in a very devious and, shall we say, unsavoury way. They got them with the help of Bjelke-Petersen and ex-senator Pat Field. The then Opposition got those numbers in order to prevent the passage of the Loan Bill. It used delaying tactic after delaying tactic. It instituted the greatest strike of all times. It perpetuated its will upon the people and upon this House. This House was misused for the sole purpose of destroying the elected government of the day and of denying the people their right to the ballot box. If we had the numbers and if we were to follow the precedent of honourable senators opposite we would take the Government to the ballot box at the moment of its greatest unpopularity. 
Would the honourable senator like to test the ballot box? The honourable senator will have noticed what the polls are showing federally in South Australia. There is a swing of 10 per cent running against the honourable senator's party. I challenge the Government to test the ballot box. Honourable senators opposite have reached the reprehensible stage that they accused us of. Are they prepared to let us take the issue to the people? 
I need no one's endorsement. I am not here to waste time; that is the last thought that would enter my mind. I wish to make some very pertinent points in rebuttal of the matters raised by the Leader of the Government. Let us put an end to this dissembling. I almost used the word hyprocrisy but that is not a term we should use here. Let us face the fact that honourable senators opposite deliberately used the device of this Bill to defeat the elected Government of the day. It is no use the Leader of the Government winding on. I am reminded of the wise old Greek who said of someone: 'He talks out of both sides of his mouth '. When I hear the Leader of the Government really at it, either at Question Time or when he is stirred by an interjection, 1 believe that he is talking, as the wise old Greek said, out of both sides of his mouth. I do not mean that in a disrespectful way. 1 merely say that he says so much but so little. He is in such a hurry that it pours out; it does not come out in the normal, reasonable and respectable way. 
-Senator McLaren has another style, an effective style. We owe quite a deal to  Senator McLaren,  especially when there is a dull moment in this place. Do not in any way deny to  Senator McLaren  that he is effective when he is on his feet. He puts honourable senators opposite in retreat and he always speaks the truth. I am not reflecting on anyone on the Government side at the present time, but  Senator McLaren  always speaks the truth. 
I return to the Loan Bill, which is the matter before the Chair. I have pointed out the devious methods which the Opposition of the day- the Government of today- used against the people. We would like some information, just as honourable senators opposite sought information. Perhaps I am not as polite or as considerate as the Leader of the Opposition. I remember that honourable senators opposite demanded information and delayed proceedings until that information was obtained. For that reason, perhaps I am justified in taking a different attitude from that of my leader by seeking right now the information for which he has asked. I ask for it to be given not at some future date but right now. 
-That is correct; or they would hold up this place until they received the information, and we should endeavour to do so. A number of questions have been asked tonight, and I say to the Leader of the Government in the Senate that he should be able to answer some of those questions. Surely, with the facilities he has at his disposal, it should not be too difficult to answer question No. 1: What was the total of the unused cash balance at 30 June 1979? It is a oneline question and we should be able to get a quick answer. What was the total of the unused cash balance at 30 June 1979? At this stage, I will sit down in order to give the Government an opportunity to answer that question before we proceed to get the answers to the rest of the questions. 
I am seldom guilty of feeling resentment, but I do feel it tonight especially since the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  endeavoured to divide us on this side. He endeavoured to indicate that there was some sort of disagreement in the approach that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  was taking and the approach that we were taking. There was nothing of the sort. We are merely endeavouring to emphasise the difference in the position which the Leader of the Opposition has taken on this occasion and the position which the Government took when it had before it a loan Bill, which is a device or a means of raising defence money. It is an extraordinary Bill which comes before us at this time. The Government has indicated that this is a machinery Bill. But on all other occasions it was referred to as a very important instrument by which the Government of the day was destroyed. Perhaps I am being repetitive, but nevertheless it is necessary for me to make that point again. 
It is obvious that the Government does not realise or appreciate the enormity of the action which it took in 1975. The enormity of the action is now relevant to this debate. All those things of which the present Government falsely accused the Labor Government of the day can be accurately returned to it because it brought the nation to a position which I can describe as truly reprehensible. If the Government followed its own advice it would resign and go to the people. I am particularly interested in the fact that this Bill refers somewhere to defence. That makes what  Senator McAuliffe  said very pertinent indeed. I was attracted to what he was saying about the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  and the fact that his portfolio had become a disaster. It is not only a disaster to  Mr Killen  but also a disaster to the whole nation. One wonders why he is not called Calamity Killen. As  Senator McAuliffe  has explained, he has poor luck at most things and he certainly has poor luck at lizard racing. That is the record of this Government. I will now turn back to the matter before the Chair. 
I have not had much practice at that lately. Nevertheless I can smile at the discomfiture of the Government at this moment. What was it endeavouring to do tonight? It is not concerned with the proper running of this place. It was about to take advantage of a situation and to cause a disorder. I hold the Leader of the Government in the Senate responsible. 
It shows the standards which the Government applies to this place in that the Leader of the Government in the Senate allows this chamber to descend or to break down on the initiative of  Senator Harradine  from Tasmania. I am sorry that I have deviated. He is provocative to the extreme. Even gentle, mild mannered senators on this side are often stirred to anger. The matter before the Chair is the Loan Bill, the device that was misused in 1975. As I have said before- it will be repeated again and again in this place- the Liberal-National Country Party coalition used the device falsely in this place and brought this chamber into discredit to defeat the elected government of the day. If honourable senators think that 1 am going back too far, I point out that we are constantly reminded in this place by the Leader of the Government in the Senate of the errors of the past. We ought now to be concerned with the errors of the present, the errors of this Government which have brought 400,000 people- more than 400,000 people, if we consider the situation correctly- into the area of poverty. If anything is to be considered reprehensible then, of course, that is. 
I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question which, for some reason or other, he has forgotten or he is not prepared to answer. It was just one question, not 10 or a further 1 7. 1 just asked one question, only to have it brushed aside. He does himself a disservice, but he does his advisers an even greater disservice. My understanding is that if they were asked the question they would give the answer. But the Leader of the Government in the Senate is taking an obstinate position. He refused to give information which surely should be readily available to him. The question which I asked him to answer was this: Question No. 1. What was the total of the unused cash balance at 30 June 1979? I am very much interested in that and so is  Senator Young,  obviously.  Senator Missen  showed some interest. As to  Senator Davidson,  I am not quite certain whether he understands what this is all about, but it seems to me that there is an interest in this question which is before the Chair. It is: What was the total of the unused cash balance at 30 June 1979? I invite the Minister to give the answer. 
-We have reached an extraordinary situation tonight in that I am now moving a further amendment to the motion to permit me a further 10 minutes to speak. But as it is now after 1 1 o'clock, I have lost all desire to speak on the matter. 
Government senators- We are still being broadcast. 
If our proceedings are being broadcast at this time, I think something is wrong. Are we being broadcast? 
Government senators- Yes. 
Well, great stuff. Let me make the point that I made previously. It is necessary for us to make the issue fairly clear as there is a faint possibility that someone other than us is listening to this debate. IT anyone in Tasmania is listening, I would be very surprised, although it is possible that a poor farmer who is ploughing at night and has nothing else to listen to but what we are saying here is listening. If so, I pity him. This is the first time that I have pitied anyone who is likely to be a supporter of the National Country Party. But in all seriousness, are we to suspend Standing Orders for  Senator Harradine?  I notice he has disappeared. Where is he? Where is the cause of all this? I see him now. If we suspend Standing Orders- it is likely that the Senate will consider debate of the issue an urgent necessity- then it is not quite reasonable, shall we say, that  Senator Harradine  should be allowed 10 minutes to speak, then another honourable senator should have 10 minutes and then the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  should be allowed 10 minutes to speak. In particular, it is not fair for the Leader of the Government in the Senate to be allowed 10 minutes to speak without the rest of us being allowed to have a say. 
It would be far better if the motion were to suspend Standing Orders to permit our debating this matter freely until about 3 a.m. or 4 a.m. I am certain that every honourable senator would like to participate in the debate until 3 o'clock or 4 o 'clock in the morning. I must say that I have no desire to sit down now. If there is just one faint chance that somebody down at the Antarctic or up in the Torres Strait happens to be listening to me then I feel inspired to continue. But now that honourable senators on the Government side have diverted my attention, I have forgotten what I was saying. I really need to commence my comments again. The point I was going to make is that Standing Orders should be suspended to permit a debate beyond the narrow limits of 10 minutes for four speakers. I think that we ought to be prepared to participate in this debate, even though it is on a trivial matter initiated by  Senator Harradine  and supported by  Senator Carrick,  to his discredit. We have debated matters here until 3 a.m. or 4 a.m., but they have been positive and important matters which concerned the rights of individuals and of nations. We have read long extracts from treatises. 
Yes. On one occasion we even tried to have incorporated in  Hansard  a very worthy article which appeared in  Playboy  so that it could be read in Queensland. At the time, that was the only way in which it could be read in Queensland. At that time  Senator Wright  said we could not incorporate the article because it contained things that ought not be incorporated. But again, I have been diverted. 
Although the matter we are discussing is trivial- I repeat that it is trivial- the suspension of Standing Orders is a means to allow  Senator Harradine  to express his venom. He has already expressed it. He has been in breach of the Standing Orders.  His  behaviour has been an affront to the Chair. He has stirred and provoked  Senator O'Byrne,  who normally is a gentle soul, not prone to making outrageous statements against anyone. He is father of the House. He has been in this place for quite some time. He has even been  President  of the Senate- and a great  President  of the Senate. Yet tonight this man was provoked by an uncalled for attack by  Senator Harradine.  Now we are faced with this proposition for the suspension of Standing Orders so that he can have another go and stir the rest of us. 
I have received a request that I not take all this valuable broadcasting time at five minutes past eleven, when the whole nation from the Torres Strait to the Antarctic, from the eastern coast right across to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands is listening. 
-The matter is a farce. That is the point I have been trying to make all night. Government senators are responsible for making it a farce. They have made it a farce and have been led by  Senator Carrick.  Fancy saying it is a farce. It has been a farce since about nine o 'clock tonight. Who is responsible for that? The Government senators are responsible as much as  Senator Carrick  because they are eager to see  Senator Harradine  engage in an act of vilification of another senator, nothing more or less than that.  Senator Sim  tells me it is a sham. Of course it is a sham. The sham has been forced upon us by him, led by  Senator Carrick.  I have said enough. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Reports state that an Australian contribution of relief food consisting of 20 tonnes of high protein biscuits and 90 tonnes of vegetable oil for East Timor is still in Jakarta where it arrived more than a month ago. What is the reason for the delay in the distribution? Who is to blame for the delay? What action is the Australian Government taking to see that it is distributed as a matter of urgency? 
-by leave- If members of the Government are in difficulty, one can imagine how much more so the members of the Opposition can be in difficulty. I agree with  Senator Missen  that something ought to be done. It seems to me that it may be necessary for notice of motion to be given that these reports are coming down so that we have at least a day's notice. If necessary we could seek some sort of access to the report or make arrangements to get a brief outline of the report and its importance. However, I disagree with  Senator Missen  on one point. It should not be a requirement or it should not be considered a requirement that an honourable senator should approach the  chairman  of a committee before bringing down a reference to that committee. It is for the Senate to decide. 
-Not even as a matter of courtesy or common sense. If the person concerned is on the Committee, I think he or she would be bound to approach the  chairman  of that committee. But if an individual senator desires to bring down a reference to a committee he should not be inhibited in any way, unless the Senate itself says so, by the  chairman  saying:  We cannot handle it, we do not think it is necessary. We do not think it is important.' We should not inhibit an honourable senator in regard to any initiative which he may wish to take in relation to referring some matter to a committee. For that reason I would say that I do not accept what  Senator Missen  is saying in that regard. 
As far as making prior announcement of giving warning to senators of reports coming before us is concerned, 1 have in my hand a report which I received a few moments ago. I have had only a few moments to look at it. lt is the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts relating to the Archives Bill 1978. It was delivered to me in an envelope in the Senate. I would say that that is a means by which we on this side can have some forewarning of the contents of a report in case we need to make some comment on it today. Too often we find that comments on these reports appear in the Press before we see them. That is an unsatisfactory situation. It has happened in the past. We have not questioned it or raised any matter of privilege in relation to the practice because I believe that the comments that anyone has to make on these reports are important. 
I have got this one, but so did everyone else, I think. 
Honourable senators- No. 
If that compliment is paid to me, why is not it paid to all other honourable senators? It seems to be a sensible arrangement to have copies of this report delivered. I did not realise I was the only one to receive a copy. When I received it I thought, 'That is not a bad idea'. 
It might even be autographed. I will move back to the point I was making quickly. I think that was a good initiative and it could be extended to all honourable senators in the chamber. I do not say that copies should be placed in senators' boxes. But at least we should have copies of the reports before us and would have at least half an hour to look at them. If something urgent arose or if some comment were made which needed to be debated it could be debated forthwith. 

 Senator RAE (Tasmania)- I seek leave to make a brief statement and to move a motion. 
Leave granted. 
The evidence taken by any Select Committee  of the  Senate and documents presented to such Committee, which have not been reported to the Senate, shall not, unless authorised by the Senate or the Committee, be disclosed or published by any member or such Committee, or by any other person. 
Standing Order 315 states: 
The Report of a Committee shall be presented to the Senate by the  Chairman,  and may be read. 
Standing Order 3 1 6 states: 
Upon the presentation of a Report no discussion shall take place; but the Report may be ordered to be printed with the documents accompanying it. 
Standing Order 3 1 7 states: 
If any proceeding be necessary upon a Report of a Committee, such proceeding shall be brought under the consideration of the Senate by a specific Motion, of which notice must be given in the usual manner. 
It seems to me - 
That the procedure to be adopted in the presentation of Senate Committee reports be referred to the Standing Orders Committee for its consideration. 
-The report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which is before the Senate tonight was presented to the Parliament on 31 May 1979. At that time some comments were made by the honourable senator who presented the report. I take this opportunity to support the recommendations which have been brought down by the Sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. To me the report represents some success after a long period of deliberation between the Australian Government and the Government of Queensland- a deliberation which was not at all times peaceful or, for that matter, pleasant. Past experience of negotiations with the Queensland Government and in particular with the Premier of Queensland has made one familiar with the knee jerk reaction with which the Premier responds to any proposition, in particular to reasonable propositions. On looking at the history of events leading up to the Torres Strait Treaty, one can be critical of the 
Queensland Premier, in that he did his best to frustrate and to delay its introduction and to incite- although perhaps 'excite 'is a more polite word to use- the people in the area to oppose what is a reasonable arrangement between two governments which have been very close; namely, the new Government of Papua New Guinea and the Australian Government. 
There is a close kinship between the two countries which is important in many regards. It is a relationship between a black country and, essentially, a white country. The relationship is unusual for its harmony over the years. It is exceptional in that Australia has given tremendous support to New Guinea over many years. In spite of many criticisms, that support has been enlightened support. That has been so despite all the problems that had to be faced- the problems of narrow, racist attitudes which are held by many people and of tensions between peoples of different colour. They were all difficulties which had to be faced in the relationship between Australia and Papua New Guinea. I think it is to our credit and to the credit of the Government of Papua New Guinea that, for some considerable time, we have shared an harmonious relationship, unlike many other countries which have been given independence and after a short time that independence has been lost. I think it must be a matter of satisfaction to many of us that, in spite of some difficulties which have recently emerged in Papua New Guinea, its Government and people have done particularly well in adjusting to the democratic forms of government which we have assisted them to adopt. 
-We invited them to adopt it. 
-These Bills are concerned with minor procedural changes. The Opposition does not oppose them and gives them a speedy passage through the Senate. 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, follows other questions asked on the same subject. It relates to a matter that is within his responsibility and should be within his knowledge. I ask: What discussions has the Minister had with the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  concerning a letter written to  Mr Street  by  Mr Justice  Staples on the Government's proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? Has the Minister for Industrial Relations passed that letter on to the Attorney-General and, if so, for what reason? What action is the AttorneyGeneral currently taking, or does he propose to take, over this matter? 
-by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I would just make a brief comment that it would be of assistance to the Senate if these reports were to come down prior to consideration of the Department's Estimates committees. Both of these reports have come down subsequently. I think it would materially assist members of the committees if they had the annual report of the Department before them when they investigated the estimates. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I listened carefully to the last words that  Senator Hamer  spoke. 
-Perhaps they are not his last words on the matter but for my own edification I listened to the last words that he spoke. I find myself in disagreement with him on the principle that roads should be a federal responsibility. 
I should have thought that  Senator Chaney  would not engage in joking today because of the recent article that took him to task on the matter and warned him that he could go the way of another Minister in this place if he was too facetious on too many occasions. To get back to the serious matter that is before us, my view is that roads, whether they be main arterial, national, rural or urban, are a national responsibility. They are a matter of great concern to the nation. I believe the nation to be a single nation and a single people. I have said that before. I cannot see any good purpose being served in applying the policy of federalism in this area. Federalism has operated in the past to the disadvantage of the transport system throughout Australia. It has cost us many millions of dollars and taken us many years to recover from the tragedies of federalism of the past when decisions have been made on transport. I am also concerned about the railway system. The same unevenness of development can be achieved in this area through the policy of federalism as was achieved in that area. 
I think that the concern we share is equal. Tremendous amounts of money and effort need to be spent on all our roads. To concentrate on the main arterial and national roads, as is the policy of the Government at present and the direction of its funding, is to act to the serious disadvantage of the country and the economy as a whole. The point has been made that considerable revenue is gathered every year from those who use the roads. I am not talking about the ordinary motorist; I am talking about those who transport goods for our general use from one place to another. A tremendous amount of money is gathered from that area. It has occurred in the past and it will occur again this year. Added to that amount is the $2,000m-odd that the Government is now obtaining by special taxation measures that allow oil prices to reach world parity. Petrol prices have risen to such an extent that the Commonwealth Government can gather, as has been stated, some $2,000m to reduce its deficit. Having accepted the need to do that- whether we agree with it or not- one would have thought that the large sums of money being gathered in this way would find their way back and would be being applied to the improvement of the road system throughout Australia. Our whole network of roads, which need to be improved, ought to be improved by the use of these funds. If we were to attack the problem of unemployment in a sensible and progressive way we would spend money in this area. It could be spent in this area in a most effective way and would provide increased areas of employment for the vast number of people who are unemployed. 
I refer now to the position of roads in Queensland. It is serious. It is much more serious than it is in Victoria and, perhaps, New South Wales. Perhaps it is no more serious than it is in Western Australia, the other large State, but it is a serious matter in Queensland. Queensland's roads have deteriorated to the point where it will take many years for them to recover. The sad situation in Queensland is that the large amount of money which has been spent has hardly met the cost of the maintenance of the roads, let alone improved the style and type of road or lead to the creation of new roads. The national highway that is causing most worry is the Bruce Highway. An authority on roads in Queensland recently stated that it would take 70 years to finish the Bruce Highway on the present federal funding levels. Honourable senators who travel from Brisbane to Townsville and Cairns would appreciate how unacceptable that position is. In certain areas that road can only be described as a horror stretch. In many places it has deteriorated to a narrow, broken-edged strip of bitumen which is of great danger to motorists and transport drivers. It is a condemnation of the Federal Government that, having such funds available to it, it cannot make provision for this road to be quickly brought up to standard. The prediction that it would take 70 years to finish the Bruce Highway was made by the Queensland Minister for Main Roads,  Mr Hinze.  He made that statement earlier this year. A newspaper report of his statement reads: 
He said the State Government would 'go it alone' on the completion of the horror stretch. 
It would take over the Federal Government responsibility for national highways and double its current $ 1 5 million programme for the area to finish the job . . . 
He is saying that, because of the failure of the Federal Government to provide sufficient funds, it is necessary for the State to take over that responsibility due to the dangerous level of repair into which the road has fallen. The $15m which it has to spend on the national highway means that it has $ 15m less to spend on improving secondary and rural roads.  Mr Hinze  had some very serious things to say. I am wondering whether I would be transgressing the ruling of the  President  if I were to use certain words but I cannot see how I could do that if the words I used were words that the Queensland Minister for Main Roads used. 
I do not know about that. That matter is under appeal to the Standing Orders Committee.  Mr Hinze  described the roads funding as a 'con trick'. Possibly Government senators would object to my saying that but they cannot object to my repeating it. I refer to a Press report which states: 
The Main Roads Minister  (Mr Hinze)  yesterday accused the Federal Transport Minister  (Mr Nixon)  of attempting to  pull an enormous con trick ' on Queenslanders. 

 Mr Nixon, he said, was trying to dupe Queenslanders into believing Canberra had made an additional $47m available Tor national highway construction. 
But only $37m would be spent on construction, the remainder going on highway maintenance and national commerce roads. 

 Mr Hinze has made other statements on the subject, such as: 'I hope Fraser chokes'. I refer to a Press report which states: 
Queensland 's Main Roads Minister  (Mr Hinze ) yesterday said he hoped the Prime Minister (Mr Fraser)  'choked' on Central Queensland dust during his northern tour. 
-That was  Mr Hinze. 
He suggested that the Prime Minister ought to have choked on the dust on those roads because he may then have realised just how bad the road conditions were. The report continues: 
He said this might impress him with the enormous problems Queensland faced in maintaining its huge road network which was urgently in need of an immediate $ 100m infusion. 

 Mr Hinze was speaking at a special Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting. The report continues: 
The meeting was called to discuss the adoption by all States of legislation allowing fuel price rises to compensate for revenue loss with the abolition of road maintenance charges. 
He highlights the extra problem which arises now because of the removal of road taxes. It is very evident that in the next wet season in 
Queensland the increase in road transport over rail transport following the removal of the road taxes will lead to roads deteriorating much faster. More revenue will have to be supplied. What  Mr Hinze  is saying- I would agree with him- is that much more money should be made available to the States. I quote again: 

 Mr Hinze accused the Commonwealth of 'thieving $ 1 ,200m from Australian motorists under the guise of energy requirements'. He said he hoped that at the next Federal election, the Government's majority was reduced to one- as that's all it deserves'. 
I am not the person saying these things; they were said by a Minister of the coalition government in Queensland. He said that this Government only deserves a majority of one. I would go a little further and say that it does not deserve a majority at all. What arises out of all the comments which have come from Queensland is this: There is a need for further Federal funding of State roads in Queensland. What emerges is that the State needs a further $100m. What also emerges is that it is not coming from Federal sources. The policy of federalism, which has been propounded by  Senator Hamer,  is just not working in this respect. What Queensland has to do in order to maintain its roads, to make them safe for people to use and make their use efficient, is to borrow the $ 100m overseas, which results in a further impost upon the people in Queensland. It is my belief that the Government will suffer because of its failure to meet the requirements of the States. The people who use the roads, having experienced their poor quality day after day, having risked their lives because of their poor quality in some areas, will take action against this Government. 
I take the opportunity at the second reading stage of this Bill merely to reiterate that funds raised from the transport industry should revert to that industry. It is unacceptable that the Government should raise large sums of money from levies on fuel, be it in one way or another, and not allow it to flow in that direction. What is the honourable senator opposite suggesting? He is shaking his head. I ask him to speak up so that we can have the opportunity of hearing his advice. The shaking of his head means nothing tome. 
The honourable senator is suggesting that we should impose a heavy burden on road transport, upon communications, and reduce income tax in other directions. Could I say to him that if we are going to have high levels of taxation in a particular area then those moneys should be spent for the purpose for which they are raised. If the honourable senator does not accept that then, of course, I would say that his priorities are all wrong. The road system is important to us all. The communications system, whether it be road, rail, sea or air, is important to us all. We should be prepared to spend money on it. If we are to have an efficient economy, if we are to be able to move our goods as we require, if we wish to get our goods to the coastline and have them exported, then our roads, railways and shipping lines must be of the highest efficiency. We should be prepared to spend money on them. We are raising over $2,000m a year by a variety of taxes. The proposition which I was putting to the Senate- maybe I slipped away from putting it clearly- was exactly as I have outlined. The honourable senator is saying that because we raise money in this direction we should lower taxes on, maybe, tobacco. 
-Of course. I believe that exactly. I believe that high excise on what is essentially a luxury, something we can do without, is justified, especially when those taxes are on addictive products which lead in some cases to lengthy periods of hospitalisation and incur costs to the whole community. I do not care if a person brews his own beer, gets himself highly intoxicated and withers away his brain provided he does it on his own. 
-The Bill is about taxation and the expenditure of money on roads. I was diverted somewhat by an interjection from  Senator Maunsell  who questioned whether I believed in high taxation on certain items, and I do. I also believe in substantial taxation which will provide for us the efficiency in transport and communication which the nation needs. That is the point that I have been putting. To get back to Queensland, Queensland is one of the States which is suffering considerably from the failure of the Government to refund the taxes which are raised for the improvement of roads. One needs to accept what the Minister for Local Government and Main Roads in Queensland is saying; that the State has to provide large sums of money to maintain national roads, which are a federal responsibility, and so decrease its ability to expend on rural and arterial roads. 
I refer the AttorneyGeneral to my question yesterday concerning the letter which was written to the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  by  Mr Justice  Staples and which was referred for attention to the Attorney-General by  Mr Street.  I now ask my supplementary question: Why did the AttorneyGeneral not reject out of hand  Mr Street's  overtures to him on this matter and recognise them for what they were- a blatant attempt to intimidate  Mr Justice  Staples and other members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? 
-I claim to have been misrepresented and I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
-The Minister in charge of the House on two if not three occasions has said that the Opposition has endeavoured to avoid debate on this matter; that the Opposition sought to postpone the debate yesterday and that now it is obstructing the debate. Let us get the position clear. When the program was put down for this week, the Government put the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill down for debate - 
When the program for this week was put down the Government intended to debate the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill on Tuesday. Then, for some reason, it proposed to pass over Wednesday, broadcast day, and proceed to debate it again on Thursday. In fact what the Government was endeavouring to do, and the Opposition objected to it- at least I objected to it on behalf of the Opposition - 
Yes. It is a personal explanation by the Opposition Whip. The proposition that we put to the Government was that we would like the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill to be debated without interruption, and we thought that the Bill was important enough to be debated on broadcast day. We did not want to avoid the debate on broadcast day, as would have happened under the program laid down. We also mentioned that  Senator Button  was ill. It was fairly clear before the end of the day that  Senator Button  would not be available for the whole of the week. Nevertheless the Government did take that into consideration and did announce it. We sought the postponement from yesterday because, firstly, the Bill should be debated throughout without interruption, and, secondly, it should be debated on broadcast day. It is no use the Minister saying in this place that we endeavoured, or are endeavouring, to avoid debate on this day. 

 Senator HARRADINE (Tasmania)Pursuant to Standing Order No. 408 I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
-by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
In the minute remaining to me, I wish to add a few remarks to indicate that we have reached a point of very little co-operation between the Government and the Opposition. What time the Government has saved will be, I would say, expended. It is quite ridiculous, after so many months of reasonable co-operation, to reach a stage where it will now be difficult to arrive at some sort of consensus as to how the program is to be run from now until the end of the sittings. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
-by leave  -Mr President,  I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate take note of the report on the operation of the Student Assistance Act for 1978 tabled in the Senate on 18 October 1979. 
-by leave -I do not know the purpose of presenting the program to us. I think we are well aware of the program. We are given documents from time to time which show how many Bills are intended for discussion in this place and the other place. The program is not one- if we compare it with previous years- that ought to give us any cause for concern, that we will not finish in a reasonable time. Because the Government would like to get Parliament up early this year- some comments have been made that we will be getting up as early as 15 November- I do not see any reason why we should be altering our program either to extend the hours of sitting or in some way limit debate. Much of the legislation that has been mentioned will be taken conjointly or cognately. We have introduced a variety of devices in this place, such as the incorporation of statements and second reading speeches in  Hansard,  which has speeded up our procedures. I cannot understand why we should be laboured with these warnings unless the Government has other ideas in mind for an early rising of this place which it has not disclosed to us. 
It must be apparent to the electorate at large that we are sitting less and less. If I recall correctly, we came back a week late, we got up early, we had a longer winter recess, the Budget session started a week late and it seems to me that we are going to be getting up a month earlier. For that reason I do not think the Government ought to be very concerned about getting through its program. I will not speak on another proposition that the Government is to put before us. All I will say is that there ought not to be any attempt to truncate debate on the program that is before us and to take away members' rights, otherwise the co-operative arrangement between both sides of the chamber will start to break down and leave will not be granted as easily. We might pick up an hour today and lose 10 hours next week. If the Government wants to sit until the early hours of the morning, as we did last session, perhaps we might do that. I give a warning here that any time the Government wishes to go beyond 12 o'clock we will almost certainly sit for at least a couple of hours. That is not a threat. 
-Is it a threat? 
-Oh, I am sorry. A threat is generally made in a different sort of way- 'If you do this, we will do that'. I am just saying to the Government in a quiet way that it is useless for the Government to try to force legislation down the throat of the Opposition, because that never works. Would the Government please refrain from giving us dire warnings of the amount of legislation we have to get through? If we look at the program we can see, as we warned the Government previously, that there is not much at all on the plate. The Government has introduced all the legislation that it needed to introduce to dismantle all the good things that the Labor 
Government introduced. It has dismantled practically everything, as  Senator McLaren  said yesterday when he listed a whole lot of the dismantling that has taken place, including Medibank. A whole series of good measures has been destroyed. That legislation is now apparently at an end and a whole series of innocuous matters is dribbling through, with the exception of the one we have before us today. I am surprised that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  is reiterating that the Government needs this legislation today. For the life of me I cannot see why. However, we will take up that matter a little more fully in the debate on the next item on the business paper. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- by leave- The speech which has just been made by  Senator Georges  is a poor reward for courtesy. Although he said that the Opposition is fully aware of what the program for the rest of the session entails, I draw his attention to the fact that at least one honourable senator opposite,  Senator McLaren,  has seen fit to ask questions about the balance of the program. The Government meant no more than courtesy to the Senate in making clear what it had in mind for the balance of the program. The statement which I read is now in the hands of the  Hansard  staff, so I do not have it. But it certainly included towards the end words to the effect that the Parliament would be able to get up when the legislation before us had been fully considered. It is not the intention of the Government to truncate the consideration of legislation. 
Apparently the appeal I made previously has fallen on deaf ears; so now we have to match unreason with unreason. We have reached a poor state of affairs when we cannot reach some sort of agreement on the program before us. I would have thought that what I suggested might have met with some sort of response. After all, what has happened is that the Government has taken - 
I am not interested in what the honourable senator is thinking. I am not interested in her advice. We should report progress. 
No, not necessarily. There has been sufficient time given to this debate today. General Business was taken away from us. If honourable senators opposite consider that we have been unreasonable in our approach I would ask them to remember that there have been no urgency motions raised in the past two days. Normally the Senate would have had an urgency motion before it both Wednesday and Thursday. This week we have conceded that this Bill is an important Bill. In spite of all the matters which have been brought forward as excuses for shifting this debate from Tuesday to Wednesday at our behest, it was our view that it was much more reasonable to deal with this Bill on the Wednesday than on the Thursday. But several other matters have intruded such as the desire of the Commission to state a point of view. I would prefer not to be pressed at the moment. I am away from the Bill at the present time and I want to get back to clauses 1 and 2. 1 would have thought that there would have been some response to the approach that we should report progress on this Bill and then consider it on Tuesday. Honourable senators opposite have insisted on having their own way. Maybe when people are unreasonable they ought not to have their own way. 
-Could honourable senators opposite give us and the transport officers and all the people waiting downstairs some indication of what they want to do? All we wanted to arrive at was a reasonable finishing time tonight. It was considered by us that if the Senate intended to sit past the adjournment time, at least midnight or the end of the second reading debate would be a reasonable time to finish. I am suggesting that the Government ought to give us some indication of when it will be ready to report progress. If it can do this let it do so quickly. We can come back on Tuesday and get into the Committee stage of this debate. Otherwise we will be arguing about clauses 1 and 2 until such time as we receive some indication from the Government as to when it intends to report progress. 
I suggest that the honourable senator impose his wishes upon his colleagues. Clause 1 of this Bill reads as follows: 
This Act may be cited as the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act 1979. 
We feel so strongly about this legislation that we intend to oppose it line by line and clause by clause. If we oppose the whole of the Bill, surely we oppose each clause of the Bill and one clause in the Bill is clause 1. 
The point I am making is - 
-No, I do not. As a matter of fact we would be better off without the Bill being before us. Since clause 1 is before us we are opposing it, just as we will oppose every clause in the Bill progressively until the Government is prepared to enter into an arrangement for a proper debate on this Bill in the Committee stage. We could argue that this Bill is of such concern to a large section of the community that an approach ought to be made to the GovernorGeneral not to give it royal assent. As soon as I mention royal assent I am back to being relevant, because royal assent is mentioned in clause 2. 
If we can take so much time dealing with these procedural clauses of the Bill, consider also how much time we can take, if it is necessary for us to push our point of view, on the rest of the clauses in this Bill. I appeal again to the Government Whip or the Minister. The Minister who is in charge of the Bill is not in the chamber and the Minister who is supposed to be seconded on his behalf is obviously asleep. He is not listening. He is not interested. I have used the debate on these two clauses again to make an approach so that we get some sort of understanding as to how we will proceed for the rest of the morning. If we are going to report progress, at what point will the Government move to report progress? What does it want? 
I may move at any time that the Committee report progress. I am not prepared to do it. I would prefer the Government to do that. I can do that at any time. I can speak to that proposition or anticipate it because part of the debate in the Committee stage of this Bill is whether we should proceed now or at some other time. My suggestion is that the Government ought to give some clear indication to everyone as to what it intends to do. Does it wish to debate this Bill until 4 o'clock in the morning? By all means let it say so if that is the case so that we can organise ourselves accordingly. Does the Government wish us to rise at 1.30 a.m. or 1.15 a.m.? If it does it has less than three minutes left to do so. At least let us have some indication from the Government as to what it proposes. 
-by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave -I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The United States of America is considering the possibility of establishing facilities for the storage of spent nuclear fuel on a number of islands in the Pacific. As this proposal is opposed by the countries of the South Pacific, what attitude does the Australian Government take to it? 
I just want to speak briefly to the motion. For the reasons which were stated by  Senator Grimes  earlier and in spite of what happened last week, the Opposition has agreed to the incorporation of the second reading speech because we believe the Bill to be an urgent one. Nevertheless, the Opposition was provoked last week because of the failure of the Government to agree to reasonable debating time. However, because of the reasons stated by  Senator Grimes,  the Opposition agrees to the incorporation of the second reading speeches of the Bill just presented and those about to be presented. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Having not spoken in the second reading debate, I direct an appeal to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to give urgent consideration to an increase in the amounts which are to be made available under this Bill. One often wonders whether it might have been better not to have given anything at all. That is not quite correct; even the 25c meal subsidy does achieve something. But, to go from nothing to 25c is to move in a very small way to try to correct a very serious situation.  Senator Grimes  and others in their speeches at the second reading stage identified and emphasised just what the needs are. It seems to me that every honourable senator would voice some concern that only 25c is to be provided to assist organisations in the provision of meals to homeless persons. Such a small subsidy will only add to the frustration of those who give so much voluntary effort to assist these people. The amount we give is so little when the need is so great. 
One evening recently- one of the few evenings that I had available- I was involved in helping the Society of the Helping Hand in Brisbane. I went to one of its hostels to assist workers in the preparation of a meal. I was appalled by the conditions under which young people in particular were endeavouring to survive. The facilities were so poor and the food available was so inadequate. Nevertheless, in a self-help situation they were endeavouring to do the best they could. It seems that if we accept that some assistance ought to be given, the amount ought to be substantially beyond 25c. I know that many of these people receive social security benefits but those benefits are not sufficient to meet their ordinary needs. They have to go to voluntary organisations to be fed, to be sustained. Such organisations place a tremendous amount of effort into this task and receive for all their effort the support of the Government to a level of 25c a meal. That is really not good enough. I think the priorities are wrong. If there are Budget difficulties, perhaps we ought to let some other concern or program meet the brunt, not these people. 
Most of the people who seek and receive assistance from these organisations are people who have become alienated from society in a variety of ways. They have become more than just a feeding problem. They have become very much a social and medical problem. They need greater sustenance that the normal person in the community needs. I stress to the Minister that there ought to be an immediate reconsideration of this legislation. That reconsideration ought not to be delayed and ought not to wait until the next Budget. When considering legislation of this sort the Government should accept the spirit of the amendment which was proposed by the Opposition to the second reading motion but which was defeated. The Minister should make representations to the Cabinet to have these amounts increased immediately. Surely she would accept that if she did so she would have the support of honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. 
It is not acceptable for people to live in the conditions in which they live if they have entered that area of underprivilege. By way of a question I expressed my concern at the increase in the number of homeless in Brisbane and it was accepted that certain programs were under way. Unless I have misunderstood their direction, they seem to be bricks and mortar programs and not programs which will immediately feed and sustain people. It is not sufficient to say that social service payments are available. It ought not to be our judgment that, because those social service payments are sometimes misused, people should starve or should receive 25c a meal. That amount of money will not buy even a quarter of a packet of cigarettes, half a pie or a quarter of a bread roll. It seems to me that the amount of 25c is an insult to us and a challenge to us to do somewhat better. 
The amount of 75c which is provided for accommodation is again far too small. I am not one who normally pleads and I do not know why I should be so lacking in aggression tonight, but I plead with the Government to reconsider this matter and to provide immediately an increase in these amounts. I know that the amendment proposed by the Opposition at the second reading stage has been refused and that the Minister has spoken of budgetary restrictions. However, I say to her that humanity should prevail on this occasion. I know that she has taken certain objections to the Cabinet in the past and that she has won. I suggest that this is an occasion when she should take further objections to the Cabinet. I am certain that if Government senators and Opposition senators were to mount a campaign in respect of this amount of money, this pittance- and surely that is an apt description for this 25c and 75c- 
-Senator Bonner should be the last one to interject on me because he and I, having come through that period in 1934 just after the Depression, suffered considerably. We can recall the day when fathers of families lined up at soup kitchens. I will nominate one- Peel Street, South Brisbane- where fathers lined up in a queue to obtain soup and bread so that there was one less mouth to feed at home. I say to  Senator Bonner  that we are rapidly approaching the same sort of situation. The number of homeless people and the number of people in want are increasing. Do they receive social service benefits? Yes, they do. But the amount they receive by way of social service benefits for one week is less than  Senator Bonner  receives by way of allowance for one day. 

 -What Senator Bonner wants is a repetition of those conditions so that people can walk from town to town to claim further amounts of money. He wants to keep people on the move, to keep them starving. 
I know as well as  Senator Bonner  knows. I am sorry to see that he is starting to support something which offended him in the past. I have deviated from my line of thought because of the interjections, but it seems to me strange how people are forgetful of the past, because the past often becomes the present. For the underprivileged that is exactly what is happening, and we hand out 25c to them. That amount will feed a parking meter sometimes for two hours. It certainly will provide half a pie, as I said previously. If this Government has senators such as  Senator Bonner  in its ranks, it is necessary for it to reassess its position. I can see the difficulties that the Minister now faces. If she went to her caucus room with a proposition to increase these amounts, it would be resisted by  Senator Bonner.  That seems to be the reality of the position. If he is one who would resist, how much more easy it would be for others to resist, not having had the experience that  Senator Bonner  has had. 
I appeal to the Minister for a reconsideration of these amounts. Some sort of assessment should be reached with those who are able to use the available moneys. She has mentioned that there will be further consultations. Let her take notice of what they require, make it a matter of urgency and forget about the other priorities that we have. This morning we had a debate on disarmament. If we have to take $10m off the defence budget, let that be an acceptable proposition if it will feed the underprivileged. If we are to take $10m extra in taxation, in some way, let us take it if it means that we can adequately feed and provide for these people. Do not let us be caught in a situation where budgetary restrictions prevent us from being human. 
I wish to emphasise what I said previously- that we have reached the present position because of the stupidity of the Government. There is no doubt that what happened last week resulted in our taking certain measures to indicate to the Government in a limited way that this place works best on a basis of co-operation. Over a number of years we have co-operated quite well. In the last weeks of sittings we have had our moments but nevertheless have co-operated fairly well. But suddenly, for some reason or otherpossibly because of bungling in the other placelegislation is being received in the Senate without sufficient time being left in which to debate it properly. The debate on the legislation last week took so much time because we opposed it vigorously, and we would have opposed it even further had we been allowed to do so by the 
Government, which appeared to be hell-bent on gagging that legislation through. 
-Yes, but the Government would not come to any reasonable arrangement regarding the debating of that legislation, and it succeeded in frustrating the Opposition, which reacted accordingly. But let us discuss the Bills that we have before us today. Their passage in another place was delayed because the House of Representatives cannot handle its new arrangement, which provides for the meeting of Estimates committees. It has really got itself into trouble with those committees. Suddenly, honourable members in that place found that they had to deal with Bills at the same time as they had to appear before the Estimates committees. The shadow Minister had to decide whether to continue his questioning as a member of the Estimates committee or to go back into the House. The arrangement was that Estimates committee questioning would be concluded first, but that inability to handle legislation that is before the House is now beginning to affect the Senate adversely. That is no excuse for the Government which must accept our complaint that this legislation is important and that to delay its passage beyond today would be to deprive recipients under it of benefits. However, it is not good enough for the Government to accuse the Opposition of using delaying tactics when it has not given us time in which to debate the legislation properly. 
I wish to make it clear to the Government Whip that there must be a return to the understanding that if this place is to operate effectively proper time for debate must be given on all Bills; further, that General Business is a right that the Opposition has, and will protect. In the last week of a sitting, of course, we may have to dispense with that right. 
It belongs to the Senate but I would say that it is more a concern of the Opposition than it is of the Government. Early in the piece, on two occasions now- last week when it was not necessary and today when it is necessary, I grant- the Government has sought to have its business take precedence over General Business. We must resist that tendency. We find ourselves opposed to the proposition in spite of the fact that we know that we cannot deny those people who are to receive benefits next week. 
What did we do when these Bills were introduced?  Senator Grimes,  who is in charge of the Bills for the Opposition, indicated that he understood the position and we agreed to the incorporation of the second reading speeches. We did take the Bills separately. 
-Yes, but I hope honourable senators realise how they treated that senator. The pressure that was brought to bear on him was such that he rightly objected and will continue to object. Those are the consequences that the Government must accept. If the Government begins to frustrate and to provoke, individual senators will begin to stand upon their rights. Nevertheless, after that incident, the rest of the second reading speeches, with the exception of one, the Overseas Students Charge Bill- we believed it was important to have that read outwere incorporated. The list of speakers today is not a list in depth. If we wished to delay, as the Government asserts we intend to delay, the list of speakers would be considerable. I strongly object to what the Government Whip has said. It seems to me that, unless some understanding is reached, we are going to do to the Government what it did to us. Make no mistake about it. The Government has frustrated and delayed. It delayed on Estimates committees. It delayed on select committees. I was the  chairman  of one and I sat and listened to extended debate and questioning on the part of Government senators. It was on the very important securities and exchange legislation. There was prolonged and deliberate delay. 
-Yes, I might have, but not the lengthy concern that some Government senators had about it. The Government stretched out its consideration. If it had not been for that, we might have had the legislation before us now instead of next week. I am talking about the devices which were used by the other side three years ago. I remember  Senator Greenwood  was most effective, as honourable senators will acknowledge, in being misunderstood on practically every proposition that was before this place. If he was misunderstood he got to his feet, made another lengthy speech and subsequently, when somebody else entered the debate, he was further misunderstood. Those devices went on. If I remember correctly,  Mr President,  in those days when you were not in a neutral position, I think you were party to those delays. They are delays of which honourable senators should be reminded. A rather cryptic note which I do not quite understand has been handed to me. I do not want it to take away from the thrust of my argument. The thrust of my argument is this: There is no intention on the pan of the Opposition to delay these Bills, but it wants them to be debated fully. At the same time, the Opposition considers it an affront to have our General Business debating time truncated. 

 Senator Peter Baume said: 'That is all right. If you want General Business, cut down your participation in the debate on these Bills'. The Government has us on the horns of dilemma- we are in a bit of a fix- as we are demanding that we should have our General Business debate, but at the same time we are seeking to debate these Bills fully. We cannot fully debate these Bills, I take it, without cutting down our speakers' list considerably before 6 p.m. today. It seems to me that we will have from 2. 1 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. That does not give us sufficient time to debate these Bills fully. I wonder whether the Government will accept the responsibility that legislation of this sort ought not to be pushed rapidly through this place. I think that every honourable senator accepts that we do often add to the quality of the legislation which goes through this place. We would like to be effective. Otherwise, why should we bother? Why do we not just dissolve and abandon the Senate and let the House of Representatives with its associated committees deal with the legislation? After all, in the way we are proceeding at the present time we act just as a stamp for what is done in the other place. Surely that is not our role. The Australian Labor Party has shifted its position on the role of the Senate. It understands the difficulty in seeking to abolish this House. Nevertheless, subject to certain restrictions of the powers of this place - 
-There are not. If I wanted the Senate to accept on its own vote the dissolution of this place, I would say that we could easily pension everyone off at a considerable rate a year for the rest of their lives. We would all vote for it. We would go home. If we had the vote in this place, perhaps we could do it easily. To say that there are 64 reasons why we should not is - 

 - Senator Cavanagh says there are only 63. The import of that interjection escapes me. The role of the Senate is made irrelevant if the Government is to continue to proceed in the way that it has proceeded. Incidentally, there is not that much legislation. I should direct the attention of the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Durack)  to the fact that, if one looks at the legislation before the House of Representatives, it is fairly trivial in comparison with the legislation which the Whitlam Government had before it. The legislation before the Senate at the present time is not substantial. I cannot see how we cannot conclude consideration of all the legislation in the month of November. It is no wonder that I cannot understand the note that I have been handed. It has come from a doctor. That is the reason why I cannot understand  Senator Peter  Baume 's reasoning either. I will conclude my remarks by saying- I have already made the point that I wished to indicate- that, unless the Government has intentions to rise for the summer recess in the middle of November, we have plenty of time to discuss the debate and to investigate fully the legislation before us. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Did the Minister release incomplete and confidential details of the Pritchard Steam Car Project in a letter to some 20 parliamentarians and to the Australian National University, thereby jeopardising the project's development, as reportedly claimed by  Mr Ted  Pritchard in an article in the  Age,  3 October 1979. 
Did the Minister take such an action without  Mr Pritchard  's approval; if so, what action is proposed by the Minister to make amends to  Mr Pritchard. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
Has a Committee of the Queensland Parliament, chaired by  Mr M.  J. Ahern, M.L.A., found that there is a disturbing lack of co-ordination in post-secondary education development in Queensland, and recommended the establishment of a separate ministry for tertiary education in Queensland, as reported in  The Courier-Mail,  5 October 1979; if so, how does the situation in Queensland, as found by the Committee, compare with the position of post-secondary education co-ordination in other States, and what action, if any, is the Commonwealth taking to assist in the co-ordination of policy-making in Queensland in this area. 
