
 - Mr Chairman, as the first senator to take part in this debate I wish to register a very strong protest on behalf of the Opposition at the fact that this Bill comes before the Joint Sitting at all, or that it was ever used as a ground to justify seeking the double dissolution of this Parliament. When the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  introduced the debate on this Bill this afternoon he gave the legislative history of the measure. He presented the facts as they were: That the Bill was rejected for the first time by the Senate on 2 April 1974, passed again by the House of Representatives on 8 April 1974, and rejected again by the Senate on 10 April 1974. We see that there was a passage of only 6 days between the rejection of the Bill for the first time by the Senate and its reintroduction in the House of Representatives. As we all know by now, under section 57 of the Constitution 3 months must elapse after the Senate's first rejection or failure to pass a Bill before it can be commenced again in the House of Representatives. But the facts are that this Bill was reintroduced in the House of Representatives only 6 days- in fact 3 sitting days- after the first rejection by the Senate. If 3 days can be 3 months, then under this Government the Constitution under which we operate is really in jeopardy. But I suppose that that is the sort of arithmetic we have come to expect from the Minister for Minerals and Energy. He is a slow learner. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  promised several weeks ago to table the advice that he and his Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  gave to the Governor-General that this Bill had failed to pass the Senate or had been rejected by it within the constitutional provisions. That advice clearly has been flouted by the very statement made here this afternoon by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. The Prime Minister has changed his mind and m fact has refused to table that advice. We on this side of the chamber maintain with the greatest vigour at our disposal that that advice to the Governor-General was wrong when it was given as a basis for the double dissolution and it was wrong again when it was given as a basis for the Joint Sitting of the 2 Houses of Parliament. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill comes before the Joint Sitting at the specific direction of the Governor-General, and that is why we are taking part in this debate. But no participation in this debate by the Opposition is any admission that the Bill is properly before the Joint Sitting. 
The Minister said, furthermore, that this Bill comes before the Joint Sitting with some specific mandate from the electors of Australia. He said that it had been passed on all these occasions by the House of Representatives and had been rejected by the Senate- as indeed it was rejected again by the Senate after the election, and with very good reason. Whatever the result of the election on 18 May, whatever small majority the Government has in the House of Representatives after that election, it does not have the numbers in the Senate. The Government did not gain a majority in the Senate. It did not receive any socalled mandate in the Senate on 1 8 May. As long as that position remains, as long as we of the Opposition have the authority from the people of Australia that we obtained on 18 May, we will take the stand that we have taken on this and other Bills and we will take that stand on other Bills in accordance with our principles and our philosophies. 
This afternoon a very interesting speech was made on this Bill by no less a person than the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He spent most of his time regurgitating the tired old Fitzgerald report which was conjured by the Minister for Minerals and Energy and leaked out to the Press in dribs and drabs at the beginning of the last election campaign. In relation to the Fitzgerald report the  Deputy  Prime Minister said something which I thought was an interesting revelation of the socialist obsessions with private companies and mining companies. It was also an interesting revelation of the ignorance of those who want to govern this nation from a centralised bureaucracy in Canberra. He said that so powerful was the Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd- he spent a lot of time analysing its financial transactions- that the Hamersley iron ore province in Western Australia was named after the company. The Hamersley iron ore province is the great iron ore province of Australia extending over many square miles of the Pilbara region of Western Australia throughout the Hamersley Ranges. The Hamersley iron ore province takes its name from the Hamersley Ranges, in which and through which there are vast quantities of iron ore explored for and developed by tremendous private investment, encouraged by Liberal governments in the past. Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd gets its name because it was the first company to operate in that region. It certainly is not fact that the region was named after the company but the complete reverse. That is a clear revelation of the socialist obsessions and the ignorance of centralised thinking in Canberra. 
I turn briefly to the Bill in the short time that is available to me. This Bill is presented by the Minister for Minerals and Energy and supported by the Government for 3 purposes: Firstly, to spend funds on the exploration for oil in the offshore areas of Australia; secondly, to develop, the Government says, the on-shore mineral resources in Australia- not just energy resources but minerals generally; and thirdly, to assist many small Australian mineral ventures. It will do all these things, so it is claimed by the Minister, by recycling savings resulting from the withdrawal of tax concessions by this Government about 12 months ago. The capital available for all these great endeavours- for the exploration for oil, for the development of minerals on-shore and the assistance of Australian mining companieswill come from these savings, which will amount to $50m or $60m a year. That is what the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will have available- a miniscule sum of money. If we are ever to bridge the ever-widening gap between our oil resources and our oil needs within the next 10 years off-shore oil exploration alone will require at least $200m a year and probably $300m. But this Government believes in its fancy that a sum of $50m or $60m a year will be sufficient not only to explore for oil but also to engage in all the other activities involved in mineral exploration throughout the nation and to assist Australian mining ventures. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who spoke ahead of me, must be living in a complete dream world with his conception of what the Petroleum and Minerals Authority can do. What is this Authority? It will be comprised of 5 persons- a  chairman,  an executive director, the Secretary of the Department of Minerals and Energy and 2 others, one of whom, under Government policy, will be a trade unionist. All minerals exploration, mineral development and all the other activities such as refining, smelting and trading in minerals will be under the control and domination of a body of 5 people- a centralised bureaucracy in Canberra consisting of 5 people, two of whom will be civil servants and one a trade unionist. 

 - Mr Mundey maybe. This is the Government's mining policy. This is the Government's solution to the problems of the great mining industry of Australia. All these problems will be solved by $50m administered by 5 people, three of whom have no knowledge or experience and are not likely to gain any knowledge or experience of the great mining industry with its technical and capital requirements- 
I am sorry that I cannot pursue further the extraordinary powers which will be given to this Authority but I am glad that they have been covered by speakers earlier in this debate. In concluding I content myself with saying that 25 years ago the people of this nation completely rejected the idea that the nation's banking system should be nationalised. I have no doubt whatsoever that the people believe as strongly as they did 25 years ago and that they will not tolerate the nationalisation of the mining industry. 
