 Mr Speaker,  I speak in support of the Bill. May I first of all thank the Leader of the House  (Mr 
Snedden) for the indulgence he showed to me when he spoke a little while ago. Shortly after I came into this House 1, like every new member, began to consider what subject I would talk about in my maiden speech. I received a lot of advice, as I am sure everyone does, as to the topic I should choose. Most of the advice was from people in the Australian Capital Territory. They said that I should deal with a national matter such as education. I inclined towards accepting that advice as I have had no experience in the House, but the experience I gained during the recess convinced me that there was a more appropriate subject on which the member for the Australian Capital Territory should talk in his maiden speech. That is the extent to which the Australian Capital Territory is unrepresented. When the opportunity came to speak on this Bill I welcomed it. Although at first sight it might occur to some people that the Bill is rather narrow and concerns a local topic, when we really think about it and pause for a moment we see that the Bill reflects a matter of the greatest importance. It reflects the extent to which the people of this country - particularly the people of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory - are to be represented in their national Parliament. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  - I nearly said the 'learned Minister for the Interior', a throwback to my old days - said that there is a conflict in the sense that this Bill comes forward from the Labor side of the House. But really there is no conflict at all. It is true that a long term policy of the Australian Labor Party is not to encourage the long future of the Senate but here one has to grasp the facts of political life. We have a bicameral system of government in Australia in which functions are given to the House of Representatives and functions are given to the other place. As far as the Territories are concerned, and in particular the Australian Capital Territory, we have no territorial government at all. If we pause for a moment and think just how the Territory is governed we are driven to this conclusion: It is governed by public servants, by a bureaucracy  -  a good bureaucracy, but a bureacracy none the less. This bureaucracy is a very large one. It is made up of highly trained, highly skilled and highly educated people. These people make the laws by way of ordinances which are a form of delegated legislation. But there is no way in which the people of the Australian Capital Territory can influence the way in which ordinances are made. This can only be done by members of Parliament in this chamber and in another place. Senators and honourable members have an opportunity to be heard on such ordinances and if necessary to bring about their disallowance. So long as the Australian Capital Territory remains under-represented in this House and in the Senate - it is hopelessly underrepresented at the moment as is the Northern Territory - the electoral service that the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are entitled to is being denied to them. 
I was reminded, when I began to think about what I was going to say, of much that was said last night. The general feeling was that one thing that is important in this House is that the quality of representation should be continually improved and increased. But such an objective requires facilities. It requires the time to use those facilities. In the present situation in the Australian Capital Territory there is not just time for that. 
I would now like to say something more about the role, as I see it, that the Senate plays in the Government of the Territories. Honourable members are probably more familiar with this process than I am. But the system provides that ordinances are laid on the table of the House. As I understand the position there have been very few examples of ordinances being disallowed in this House. This is probably due to pressure of business. There are some examples of ordinances being disallowed in the other place. But this is not because there has been an Australian Capital Territory representative there. This is the terrible thing that is wrong with the present system. When an ordinance is disallowed in the other place - and a number of examples were given this morning by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - it is done by people who are not directly responsible to the Australian Capital Territory. The disallowance is effected by good meaning people who come from outside the Australian Capital Territory. Surely that is wrong. I speak, of course, with the strong belief that the Australian Capital Territory should have 2 members in this place as well as Senate representation. 
The main point is that section 12 of the Seat of Government Administration Act makes provision for Australian Capital Territory representation. Another thing is very important to the people of the Australian Capital Territory. It is this: People who live in the Australian Capital Territory probably live in the most planned seat of Government and the most planned environment that the world has ever seen. The planning of the Territory is controlled by the National Capital Development Commission and we all know the wonderful job that it has done. But it is part of the law of the Territory that all changes and all variations to the plan for development have to be laid before this House and the other place. So long as there is no Senate representation the people of the Australian Capital Territory have no say at all in what happens in the deliberations of the Senate as to changing the plan of Canberra. 
The Minister for the Interior made some points about the comparative size of electorates and the number of persons who elect senators to the other place. But he overlooked completely the special circumstances that exist in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. As 1 understood the Minister, he did concede that already the Australian Capital Territory at least was entitled to 2 representatives in this House. I personally thank him for that concession. But the principal fact that has been overlooked by the Minister for the Interior is that the system of government for the Territories requires that all manner of subjects for law making be considered by both this House and the other place. This, of course, means that ordinarily senators are not concerned with road making, garbage collection, town planning, bus services, the state of the courts and all manner of little things such as the registration of plumbers, the standard of workmanship, and disputes by the Building Branch of the Department of the Interior. Ordinarily senators are not concerned with these things. 
I have heard it said that a member of a national parliament should not be concerned with them. However, the fact is that under the system of government for the Territories as it exists at the moment the Senate is given a very very important part to play, lt is given the power of disallowance. Yet, it denies the right to the people who make up the Territories to play a part in the deliberations and the debate that might lead to disallowance. 
One can illustrate the position in this way: A number of ordinances have been disallowed in the Senate. This action may not necessarily have been a good thing; it is a matter for conjecture. But if it was a bad thing that an ordinance was disallowed the people of the Australian Capital Territory would have had something done to them that they did not want to have done. They have no representative in the other place. If it was good, then the people of the Australian Capital Territory have been lucky that the disallowance was a good and not a bad decision. But as a matter of ordinary democratic principle, they had no say in the decision. There is an old saying that there should be no taxation without representation. This saying is so old it is almost trite. Our American friends fought a war over this principle. Yet, the matters that are of vital concern to the people of the Australian Capital Territory in their everyday life are the subject of delegated legislation over which they have no control in at least one of the chambers of the national Parliament. 
In this morning's 'Canberra Times' honourable members may have read that there was a question of the police taking photographs outside Parliament House of Australian Capital Territory citizens. It was suggested in the other place that this action was wrong. This, of course, directly concerns the people of the Austraiian Capital Territory. One may not agree that the action by the police was wrong - or right. But it directly concerns the people of the Australian Capital Territory. The matter remained for an alien outside senator to bring before the other place. There should be 2 senators - if this Bill goes through there will be 2 senators - from the Australian Capital Territory to take these points up. 
I now want to say something about the bureaucracy - the public servants of Canberra who exercise such enormous power and who continually confront the people of Canberra. If one sits outside my door on any day one would see a number of people who have real or imagined grievancesthey all believe them to be real - against bureaucracy, its administration, and the various ways in which it makes the laws. One can see all the evidence in the world which amply demonstrates that there is a great need for a senator or 2 senators to represent the people of the Australian Capital Territory. Of course, in one sense I find myself in a strange situation. 1 am trying in one breath to be an advocate for a certain point of view. I also find myself a witness for that point of view because 1 am actually a party to what happens. In one way, I suppose, it should add weight to my words. But on all the issues I have mentioned there is no representation in one of the 2 chambers that the present Government relies on to govern the Territories. You can call that a constitution for the Territories if you like. Yet the people of the Australian Capital Territory have no representation at all in the other place. They are denied a right. In old fashioned jargon it could be called a denial of natural justice. 
It is interesting to compare the situation in the Australian Capital Territory with the situation in Tasmania. 1 have chosen Tasmania because it is the best example although some other States could be mentioned. Tasmania is at one end of the scale and New South Wales is at the other end. The Minister for the Interior quoted figures this morning, and I will not repeat them. But as far as Tasmania is concerned, it has approximately 3 times the population of the Australian Capital Territory. In terms of numbers on the electoral roll the proportion is probably the same. Of course, the comparison will become worse if the voting age is reduced to 18 years. Tasmania has 10 senators, 5 members of the House of Representatives, 19 members of its Legislative Council and 35 members of its Legislative Assembly, making a total of 69 politicians representing Tasmania as compared with 1 member representing the Australian Capital Territory, an electorate approximately one-third its size. In addition Tasmania has a system of local government. There is no local government or territorial government in the Australian Capital Territory. Territorial government in the Australian Capital Territory comes directly from and is the law making power of the public servants and, beyond the public servants, of this House and of the Senate by way of review. This is all the more reason for adequate and proper representation in both the House of Representatives and in the Senate. There is no local government or State government equivalent in the Australian Capital Territory. However all of the activities of local government and State government are undertaken in the Australian Capital Territory. We probably do them a lot better here in many ways than does local government or State government in Tasmania. To cope with the problem Tasmania has 49 local government bodies dealing with matters that in the Australian Capital Territory are directly the concern of and subject to review by this House or the other House. In Tasmania each of the local government bodies has a warden, a  deputy  warden and a treasurer to whom the constituents can turn if they have a complaint or want to make a representation. In addition the local government bodies have between 3 and 12 councillors to whom a person can turn if his bus service does not work properly or if there is a dispute over some building matter. One could say that the present situation in the Australian Capital Territory is due to Government indifference. I am sorely tempted to say that it is, but this is not the direct point of my remarks. 
The system that applies in the Australian Capital Territory operates on delegated legislation made by public servants to be checked  by  and to be subject to review in this House and in the Senate. This delegated legislation covers an enormous range of topics. In Tasmania there is a total of about 294 local government representatives over and above the 69 politicians. The Australian Capital Territory has no local government representatives of that sort. This only proves, if honourable members accept what I am putting to them, that the people of Canberra - virtually the people of the Australian Capital Territory, because the population of Jervis Bay is the only substantial addition - arc grossly and hopelessly under-represented. If honourable members adopt the test that I heard spoken about with fervour and passion here last night - that members of this House and of the Senate should have proper facilities and fu!l opportunity to prepare themselves to give the proper service to which their constituents are entitled - something better has to be done for the Australian 
Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. If the present proposal is not accepted there are only two ways to meet the existing situation - either we depart from the present system and create a local government set-up of some sort, which is inevitable in any event, or we continue with the present system but make it work properly. At the moment it is not working properly. 
If Territory ordinances are to be debated properly in the Senate then the people of the Australian Capital Territory and of the Northern Territory must have representatives there. They must have representatives whom they can ring and to whom they can say: 'Look, this is wrong. Do something about it', or: T think this is wrong and I want to see you about it*. At the moment there is no representative. All they can do is go to some State senator and hope that he will talk to them. Usually out of goodwill he does, although most senators have enough on their hands. The fact that the Australian Capital Territory is hopelessly under-represented was conceded by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  during the recent by-election when he said that the Australian Capital Territory would have a second member in this House in no time at all. He stated also that the second member would represent a separate electorate. The Minister for the Interior was consistent and agreed with the Prime Minister when he spoke this morning. 
However, is this the way forward? Is the way forward a second member in the House of Representatives? I would agree with the Minister for the Interior that there are obvious political difficulties of which the Government would be fully aware. My predecessor held the seat with 67% of the vote. I held it with about 57% of the vote. If I were on the other side of the House I could understand that there was no great hurry to create a second seat in the Australian Capital Territory. One can appreciate the difficulty the Government has in trying to draw a line. I give full recognition to that line of thought but there is no such difficulty in electing 2 senators for the Australian Capital Territory, which is where the present need is, because under the existing procedures the Government and the Opposition would each have one senator. We could easily use 4 more representatives, 2 in the House of Representatives and 2 in the Senate. There is no problem at all, as has virtually been conceded, legally or otherwise in electing 2 senators for the Australian Capital Territory and 2 for the Northern Territory, so enabling the people of the Territories to be properly represented. Their election would meet many of the existing problems of under representation in the Territories. 
The strength of the feeling in the Australian Capital Territory about the fact that it is under-represented has been proven amply from time to time. The Advisory Council, which does its very best, had to resign as a gesture to try to force the Government's hand and to make it realise that something would have to be done. Similar actions have occurred in the Northern Territory Legislative Council over the years. It seems that it is only when such things happen that the Government's hand is forced. An odd feature of this debate is that the Country Party, which enjoys some of the most favourable constituency-member ratios in Australia, should be reluctant to grant Senate representation to the Northern Territory. One must look for reasons and the most likely reason must be a sheer, low-level, political reason based upon fear that it would not return members acceptable to the Part)'. 
When a similar Bill was debated in this House in 1.968 no attempt was made to answer the arguments put forward then by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Hansard shows this. The Government, through its spokesman at that time, contented itself with rather flippant remarks about the apparent inconsistencies between the Labor Party's long term policy of no additional senators and of abolishing the Senate and its attitude to the pressing need to give some kind of representation somewhere - the Senate being the natural and obvious choice - to the people of the Territories. That is all the Government relied upon. If honourable members look at the Hansard report they will not see one point directed at the basic proposal. Its attitude is like saying to someone: 'You are not serious'. Not a single argument was directed to the merits of the case. Of course, on this occasion there has been a complete change. This morning the Minister for the Interior stressed over and over again that this was fundamentally an important problem. He did not say that it was 2 years ago. Of course there have been increases in population since then both in the Northern Territory and in the Australian Capital Territory. However, the fundamental problem was stressed hard in 1968 by my predecessor and the facts are well known. It is not unreal to say that the member for the Northern Territory was given full voting rights only when that member came from a party more acceptable to the Government. If I remember the figures correctly it was not until the Australian Capital Territory had an enrolment of almost 50,000 that the member for the Australian Capital Territory was given full voting rights, but with the change to Country Party membership the Northern Territory was given full voting rights when that Territory's population reached 17,000. 
There is not a great deal more that I want to say in support of this Bill, lt is an old maxim that there should be no taxation without representation, but the residents of both Territories pay taxation. The Northern Territory has interests of its own which are peculiar to itself, lt can be accepted that it is vitally concerned with the income it earns from exports and from other sources. On matters of that sort it would want to be heard in the Senate. On matters of defence it would want its representative in the Senate to be heard, lt has no representative there. The same can be said for the Australian Capital Territory. Once can imagine conflicts arising. One can imagine a senator from the Northern Territory saying: 'Too much money is being spent on Canberra; do something about it'. However this cannot be said because the Northern Territory has no senator. It is not impossible to conceive of a senator from the Australian Capital Territory saying something similar about the Northern Territory, although that is less likely. 
As the Leader of the Opposition, I think, said this morning, the Senate does have full powers of debate and review, lt is an important House in the sense that it plays this part in this system of government of the Territories. It seems to me that most of the remarks of the Minister for the Interior were quoted from the old Commonwealth debates at the turn of the century when one talked loosely and freely about matters of passion at the time - State Houses and things of that sort. If one reads and thinks about most of the views on the other House, I suggest that one gets the overwhelming impression that because of the development of party government the Senate no longer plays that role. It is that thinking which lies behind the Australian Labor Party policy to do something about it ultimately. 
That can be said and understood, but it should not be used as a red herring to detract from the fundamental importance of the matter that we are considering today - this is, that under the present system, with no local government and no territorial government, the Senate is given and is pledged to play a fundamental and important part in territorial government. The people of the Australian Capital Territory and, indeed, the people of the Northern Territory are denied a right to say anything about these matters or to have any representation in the Senate. 
The only point that I wish to make in conclusion is this: It is well known, but it bears repeating, that when the member for the Northern Territory made his maiden speech some years ago he demanded - he did not request; he did not suggest; he demanded - that the Northern Territory have Senate representation. He is not to speak in this debate. It is an interesting thought that he will not be speaking in this debate even though, in making his maiden speech, he thought it sufficiently important to demand Senate representation for the Northern Territory. My final thought is this: Let the Government do the right thing by the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Let them have Senate representation. 
In the absence of the Minister for Education and Science I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister inform the House what stage has been reached in making public the results of the surveys by the States of their educational needs? Does he agree that full details of the original surveys and their results should be made public as soon as possible? 
I present from 1,242 residents of the Australian Capital Territory, collected in the last 2 weeks, the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled: 
The humble Petition of the undersigned residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully sheweth - 
That there is a great need in the Australian Capital Territory for legislation giving comprehen sive benefits and protection to consumers. There are many cases where consumers suffer because of onesided contracts which may easily be misunderstood, particularly by newcomers to this country. There is also great hardship because of defective laws when equipment is sold that is faulty and when it is installed badly and with faulty workmanship. 
We believe that the Government''! proposed Consumer Protection Council for the Australian Capital Territory with a minority representation for the consumer can not adequately light for our tights. An independent body is needed, responsible primarily to the consumer, so that our just grievances may be thoroughly investigated and appropriate measures taken. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that comprehensive consumer protection legislation be enacted in the Australian Capital Territory. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of electors of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of interna! moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November, 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunities for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents .suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for: 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister for the Interior aware that a citizen of the Australian Capital Territory, a  Mr  Gelmanovski,  has alleged that he was recently assaulted in the cells of the Canberra Police Station by a senior officer of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force? If not, will he make inquiries and if there is such an allegation will he make arrangements with his colleague, the Attorney-General, to have a Supreme Court judge made available to inquire into the allegations so that  Mr Gelmanovski  himself does not have to pursue the alternative of instituting expensive legal proceedings and so that justice will have the appearance of being done in the matter? 
 I am rather disturbed that in the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department no apparent provision is made for expenditure on law reform, particularly at a time when the Government talks so much about the need to legislate in regard to law and order. During the recent byelection campaign in the Australian Capital Territory the Government was strongly criticised for its record in law reform and at the eleventh hour it stole the policy of the Australian Labor Party to have a law reform commission for the Australian Capital Territory with a commissioner with the rank of a Supreme Court judge. Nothing has yet been done. The matters on which the Government was criticised remain as they were, and not all of them require a law reform commission in order to be remedied. All they need is action on the part of this Government. The Government's lack of action shows its lack of interest. Its record on law reform is a reflection of the low priority it has always given to law and order in areas where it is important, where it most counts and where it affects people in their everyday dealings with each other and with government. It is in these areas that the Government's failure can be best seen. 
One never hears members of the Government express concern over the need for law reform. All one hears are utterances from time to time that the Government must legislate to ensure better control over the people and what they do. The case of Worthing v. Rowell, to which the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  referred a little while ago, is an exposure of the Government's failure in that area because it is well known in legal circles that that neglect was there and was only waiting to be tested, and when it was tested it was exposed. 
This afternoon 1 propose to give a few examples that are known to me as a barrister practising in one of the Commonwealth Territories and which point to a need for law reform. These cases are known to most other lawyers in the Australian Capital Territory also whether they work in private practice or for the Government. I believe that they illustrate the complete failure of this Government to interest itself seriously in the things that matter in law and the complete insincerity of this Government when it speaks now about legislating in an area which is completely unnecessary. The first example I propose to give stems from the failure of the Government to enact any suitors fund type legislation in the Australian Capital Territory. This type of legislation has existed in New South Wales for many years. Its absence in the Australian Capital Territory has recently given rise to what appears to be considerable hardship on 2 orphaned children. 
What is suitors fund type legislation? It is legislation that overcomes the terrible hardship that can attach to a litigant who has gone to court and won his case and who is then taken on appeal to an appellate court by his opponent only to lose the appeal not through any fault of his own but because the appeal court has decided that the trial judge has made a mistake. When this happens the unsuccessful party in the appeal is invariably ordered to pay the costs incurred in the appeal court by his opponent. Of course, he -has to pay his own costs as well. This used to create terrible hardship in places like New South Wales and was completely wrong. Suitors fund type legislation provides that where this happens the costs are to be paid out of a suitors aid fund so that the person concerned is not out of pocket. As I have said, there is no such legislation in the Australian 
Capital Territory. The lack of it has been known for many years and the Government has done nothing about it. 
The next case to which i refer is that of Jarasius v. Brown. In November 1969 a decision was given by the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory in this case, lt was a very unhappy case. It was brought by 2 orphaned children for damages arising out of the wrongful death of both their parents in a motor car accident. The judge awarded damages totalling $34,478 and he ordered the defendant to pay the costs of the children in the action. The defendant insurance company considered that the judge had made a mistake and that the damages were too high, and it appealed to the High Court of Australia. The appeal had to go to the High Court because there is no intermediate court of appeal in the Australian Capital Territory - and this is another legal failure that should be sheeted home to this Government. 
On the advice of counsel acting for the children an application was made by letter to the Attorney-General for assistance by ex gratia payment in the nature of a suitors aid fund payment. This had been given in a previous case in which the plaintiff was a man called Gridic. The application was made in a letter written on 23rd December 1969 and it stated that the plaintiffs, who were now the respondents to the appeal, had no money of their own. It asked for assistance such as would have been available to them had they lived across the border, say in Queanbeyan instead of in the Australian Capital Territory where the Commonwealth Government is responsible for their fate, so that if they lost the High Court appeal they would not have to lose a substantial part of their verdict if they were ordered to pay costs. 
On 5th January 1970 the AttorneyGeneral replied that he would consider the matter and communicate with the solicitors as soon as possible. However nothing else was heard from him, and on 24th April 1970 the solicitors for the children wrote again saying that the case would be heard shortly and that the matter was becoming urgent because they wanted to be able to brief senior counsel to act for the children. There was no reply  to  this letter and the solicitors eventually had to deliver a brief and incur costs in order to secure the services of a suitable barrister in Melbourne where the High Court was sitting. In May of this year the High Court upheld the appeal of the defendant insurers and reduced the damages awarded from $34,478 to $19,549. The High Court ordered the children to pay the costs of the defendant insurer and left them to pay their own costs. This was exactly what the solicitors for the children had foreseen might happen. 
I have been told by the solicitor acting for the insurance company in the appeal that his costs will be nearly $6,000 for the preparation of the appeal. This is a high sum partly because of the expenditure on the preparation of the appeal books and because barristers had to go to Melbourne. It may be assumed that the children's legal costs will not be very much less. If it turns out to be that way, the damages that these children will eventually recover will be about half of what even the High Court said they should receive. This is a scandalous situation that is a direct consequence of the Government's failure to enact simple legislation and also of the AttorneyGeneral's failure to consider the children's solicitors' application in time. It shows where this Government really stands on matters of law that are important in the lives of people. I pause to ask the AttorneyGeneral . even at this late hour to give serious consideration to making a suitors aid type grant to the children. 
I give another example. In New South Wales there is legislation which provides that an employer must take out compulsory insurance cover for damages he might be liable for to an employee if he is found guilty of negligence. Until late last year there was no such legislation in the Australian Capital Territory. Even now the legislation provides for a compulsory insurance cover of only $50,000. In about May of this year the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory considered a claim for damages for injuries suffered by a worker who had been made into a paraplegic. This young man is now a complete cripple. The case was Maljevic v. Frederick W. Neilsen Pty Ltd. The judge awarded the injured worker $93,000 to compensate him for his injuries. The defendant insurance company made no complaint and lodged no appeal so there can be no suggestion that the amount was considered excessive. However it transpired that, although the company had some assets, it had insurance cover for only $40,000, which was the amount required of it by the New South Wales law at the time the company took the insurance out. 
The sum of $40,000 is all that the insurance company has paid the young man, and this has to cover the legal costs that he incurred in going to court. He is $50,000 short of the sum that the judge said would have been a proper and adequate sum to compensate him. Where would he normally get the proper compensation? He has been lucky because the employers have offered to pay him $5,000 every 6 months as they prefer not to be wound up. But it will take them approximately 5 years to pay the full amount of damages and they refuse to pay the injured worker any interest on the money, which they will have the use of in the meantime.' They have also agreed to give him some form of light employment. But this does not detract from the fact that the injured man is a complete cripple and cannot be compensated in the way in which the judge intended that he should be compensated. The judge, of course, did not know about the $40,000 limit. If another such case were to arise tomorrow, the defendant employer may not mind being wound up and it may have to be wound up in such a way that an injured person would receive absolutely nothing by way of damages or receive only $40,000. This could happen in the Australian Capital Territory. This is another example of the Government's inability to interest itself in matters of real legal importance. 
Another example can be found in the field of workers compensation where the Commonwealth has a responsibility. There are at least 2 sets of Commonwealth workers compensation laws that have a common feature which works greatly to the detriment of an injured person. I speak of the Australian Capital Territory Workers Compensation Ordinance and the Commonwealth Seaman's Act. In both cases there is provision that the amount of workers compensation that a partially incapacitated worker receives shall be based on a comparison of his pre-accident pay with his post-accident ability to earn. This seems fair enough on the face of it, but the statutes spell out that in making the comparison the Court must take into account all overtime that the worker earns or is able to earn after his accident but that it shall not take into account overtime that he has earned before his accident. This means that if a worker earned, for example, flat rate of $60 a week plus $20 overtime before his accident, making a total of $80 a week, and his injuries made him partially incapacitated so that after the accident he could get a job at only $40 a week and $20 a week overtime, he would get no workers compensation even though he was $20 a week worse off. This could not happen in New South Wales; it has happened many times in the Australian Capital Territory. This is an absurd result as was revealed in a High Court decision as long ago as 1957 in the case of L. W. Smith v. McErlane. It has been criticised by magistrates in the Australian Capital Territory time and time again but it remains part of the law of the Australian Capital Territory. 
There is a ludicrous example of this indifference on the Government's part when we look at the Australian Capital Territory Workers Compensation Ordinance and the rules that have to exist to give effect to it. One would expect ordinary normal standards of professional competency to dictate that the rules should relate to the Ordinance, but this is not the case with the workers compensation rules in the Australian Capital Territory where the Commonwealth is responsible. The Ordinance was enacted in 1951. It repealed an earlier Ordinance in 1946, which in turn repealed an earlier Ordinance. The rules which apply were originally made in 1931 and have never been changed. Many rules relate to sections in the Ordinance under which they were enacted which have been repealed, and which have formed no part of law of the Australian Capital Territory for more than 30 years. If one looks through the rules one sees descriptions of how to do something that can no longer be done. The scheme of the Ordinance that is in force today is completely different from the scheme of the Ordinance that the rules give effect to. This leads to confusion and it becomes a lawyer's nightmare. It is ridiculous. But it illustrates again the Government's lack of interest, its lack of concern and its lack of attention to what would be really simple matters - the question of enacting rules to give proper effect to a workers compensation ordinance. There is nothing in the Australian Capital Territory to prevent a defendant insurance company of being guilty of lengthy delays in making workers compensation payments. This has been criticised but nothing has been done. 
I wish to finish on one point because of the shortage of time. I wish to refer to this serious point: One of the most fundamental features of our law is that a person charged with a serious criminal offence is entitled to a preliminary hearing of the evidence that is to be brought against him so that he may know what it is and test it by cross-examination. It is a form of pretrial procedure that is absolutely essential and basic to any civilised system of law. Last year some young men were charged in the Court of Petty Sessions of the Australian Capital Territory with rape. There are few more serious offences. Everyone believed that they would proceed to a preliminary hearing before a magistrate who would have to decide whether they should be committed to stand trial in the Supreme Court. This is a feature of the law of every State of the Commonwealth and it gives basic safeguards to an accused person. This Government, through its Attorney-General's Department, decided that this procedure- 
This aspect of it is not sub judice. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Bonnett)  - Order! If the case is sub judice- 
I am not talking about the indictment before the court. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- If the case is even awaiting hearing I rule it is sub judice. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, would you hear me on this? I am not addressing myself to the case that is before the court, which involves a charge of rape. I am speaking about a procedure that is now over and done with. It has been ruled upon by the trial judge. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I uphold the point of order. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! If the case is waiting to be heard, I must declare the subject sub judice. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Not in the case of an honourable member taking bis first period. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I am ruling under standing order 91. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Willhe ascertain whether or not the Commissioner for Police for the Australian Capital Territory sometimes refuses to surrender or destroy fingerprints and photographs which the police have taken of persons who (a) have been charged, but later acquitted of the offence with which they were charged and (b) have no previous convictions. 
If the Commissioner does refuse to surrender or destroy fingerprints and photographs in some cases in the situations set out, will he inquire what influences the Commissioner in his decision. 
If the decision of the Commissioner is taken in such cases where he considers it necessary to know the identity of a person who has not been convicted of any offence by any court, does the Minister support a case that everyone in the community should be fingerprinted and photographed for police purposes. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that allegations of brutality against Aborigines by Territory police have been made by security officers in the Northern Territory. 
Did be announce that the matter had been looked into by a senior officer of police in the Territory and that no further action would be taken. 
It so, will he make public or make available, details of the allegations and details of the inquiry made by the senior police officer. 
Were the security officers who made the allegations interviewed. (5.) Werethe police officers against whom the complaint was made interviewed. 
Is it proper that allegations of police brutality should be inquired into by policemen. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is the New South Wales Department of Education responsible to any person or authority in the Australian Capital Territory for its activities in theAustralianCapitalTerritory: if so, who is that person or authority. 
If there is no such person or authority, for how long has this situation continued. 
What arc the intentions of the Government regarding the setting up of an independent education authority in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Are any steps being taken at present in this matter; if so, what are they. 
Is it intended that no independent authority should be set up in the Australian Capital Territory without first being considered by an independent committee of inquiry. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many persons receive salaries greater than $10,000 per annum from the Australian National University, and what are their designations or positions. 
What are the applicable salary scales. 
What allowances or other benefits additional to their salaries are received by each of the persons referred to in (1) above. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they are not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs. 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on eitherthe majority or minority who do not hold the same views. 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought. 
That they welcome the statement by the honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on Rims, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share (hem. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 Mr Chairman,  I wish to support many of the remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  But, in addition, 1 wish to move an amendment to the appropriation provided for the Department of External Territories. Therefore, I move: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by  $2,  as aB indication to the Government that recent events in the Territories of Papua and New Guinea for which the Government is responsible constitute a danger to the civil liberties and rights of the people of those Territories.  Mr Chairman,  the purpose of the amendment is to persuade the House and the Government that civil rights and civil liberties are not being enhanced as they should be or even protected in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea at this time. Very little time is available to me to make a detailed analysis of the Public Order Bill which recently passed through the House of Assembly in Port Moresby on the initiative of the Administration and where it was introduced by the Secretary for Law,  Mr Curtis.  However, it is my intention to point out certain unsatisfactory features which 1 believe to be repressive and unjustified, and which have to be understood in the context in which our system of law has been allowed by the Government to operate in Papua and New Guinea. 
The events that have happened in New Guinea, including the Public Law Ordin ance, already have been the subject of forceful criticism from the International Commission of Jurists, and these criticisms and the publicity attached to them did lead to some amendments being offered by the Administration in order to overcome some of the worst features of the Public Order Bill. However, in order to set the tone of my remarks, I wish to quote from the Committee Report of the International Commission of Jurists which dealt with the proposed Public Order Ordinance. The Committee said: 
The Territory is at a stage in its development when political activity and the free movement of people, and the free expression of ideas should be encouraged, and not repressed or discouraged, except where it is clearly necessary to do so . . . 
The Ordinance creates many new criminal offences and many new and additional powers to the police and to the courts. It makes many offences summary offences, that is, offences triable summarily by magistrates and not on indictment in the Supreme Court where there are more safeguards for an accused person. It all must be understood against the background that the indigenous population of Papua and New Guinea invariably has recourse to one lawyer and one lawyer only, and that is the Public Solicitor of the Territory. He is the only person who can act for them when they come into conflict with the law. The role of the Public Solicitor is also under attack from the Government today. 
I will draw the Committee's attention to some of the features of the Public Order Ordinance, but before I do so I would like to say a few words on one of the lesser known roles that is played by legislation of this sort. I have in mind its deterrent, inhibiting effect on the values of an emerging country. Civil rights legislation can be of two kinds. There is the liberalising kind exemplified by a Bill of Rights with its guarantees of freedom of assembly, freedom of speech, freedom of religion and freedom of movement. Then there is the opposite. There is the repressive kind of legislation that is not civil rights legislation but is the antithesis of it. The Public Order Ordinance comes into this latter category. 
People learn about civil rights and civil liberties when they have a Bill of Rights to guide and influence them. The enormous progress made in the United States of 
America in recent years is evidence of this, lit is the best example. In a country that has many social, racial and economic problems, they have had a common standard and a common set of values to which these problems could be referred and against which they could be solved. The youth of America are brought up on a Bill of Rights. They know its value and they would never put up with the inroads upon their rights that are accepted without question in many countries without a Bill of Rights, and indeed in this country. A Bill of Rights has enormous educative value. 
If one looks to New Guinea one sees how the Attorney-General for the Commonwealth has warned the people of New Guinea about flirting with a Bill of Rights, and one wonders why. What possible harm can come from a Bill of Rights? How can  anything but good come from it? It sets out in clear language minimum standards and reasserts fundamental values. However, the legislation that expresses this Government's view on civil rights is to be found in the Public Order Ordinance and its recent attack on the role of the Public Solicitor in New Guinea. What does the Ordinance do? It controls public meetings and processions in those parts of the Territory which are declared to be appropriate by the Government. The decision whether an area is declared, where it is an offence to organise or convene a public procession or a public meeting and where it is an offence to be present at a public procession or a public meeting is left to the Administrator or to a person appointed by him. There is no practical way in which a person can appeal against that decision because it would involve making an application to the court, and the person most likely to make the application has only the Public Solicitor to act for him. As I will point out later, the Public Solicitor is being required by the Government to impose conditions of a political kind on the applicant before he grants legal aid to him. It is not an objective test on the Administrator, it is a subjective one. If he is of the opinion that it is desirable he declares the area, and it would be very difficult to go behind it and get to a court. 
Even if a permit is given, the Ordinance gives power to senior commissioned officers of police to prohibit the holding of the procession or meeting, or to disperse the people who are present. It is not enough to say as a justification that the police officer must have reasonable grounds because, as I have said, the only way to challenge that in a court is to use the services of the Public Solicitor. Even then, as  1  have said, the wording of the section is such that it is a quasi-subjective test in that the reasonable ground must appear to be reasonable only to the senior police officer. There is power to stop and control vehicles and to control traffic by closing off roads, and this power also is given to a police officer. In the section which gives power to the Administrator or to a person appointed by him to decide whether or not a procession or a meeting can be held, and where it creates a right of appeal from that decision to a person called a commissioner, who is a stipendiary magistrate, it is spelt out that the commissioner may inform himself on the question in any way he thinks proper without being bound by legal forms or rules of evidence. These are the rules and forms that have grown up over centuries and centuries in our system. They provide essential safeguards to accused persons and to persons who want to go to court. In other words, the system which we have imposed upon the people in New Guinea is that all the legal safeguards, in that context at least, are dispensed with. 
The Secretary for Law said when he introduced the Bill that many of the powers given were to be found in the common law, and he even quoted Blastone in support of this proposition. Whatever the truth of that statement, the fact is that most of these old powers that he had in mind are dormant, virtually dead, and are not used. The effect of the Ordinance will be to resurrect them in the public mind and make them available for use. The Ordinance gives power to a magistrate to make an order binding a person over to be of good behaviour and to comply with residential conditions. Even though that person has not been found guilty of any criminal offence, he can be ordered out of the Territory or required to live in a particular area. It savours very much of the iniquitous pass laws of South Africa. 
The Secrteary for Law when he introduced the Bill said that many of these provisions were directed at what he called unemployed trouble makers. It should not be a criminal offence to be unemployed, and if the best thing that this Government can do to overcome unemployment in Papua and New Guinea is to introduce laws like this, then the sooner we get home the better. The Secretary for Law also said when he introduced the Bill that it was necessary to have control so that the magistrates will have power to deal with these unemployed migrants. He did not mean people from other countries; he meant people from other parts of New Guinea who get into trouble of one kind or another. 
He referred to drunken brawling around taverns, assaults, offences against property and petty thieving, and he tried to justify the Bill in this way. However, the Ordinance is against him because section 21 of the Ordinance gives power to the court, where it considers it advisable for the preservation of peace and public order that a person should not be in an area where processions and meetings cannot be held without a permit, to order that the person should remove himself to another area, and that he stay outside a specified area. So it has nothing to do with petty thieving and drunken brawling. It is sheer politics. It. has nothing to do with the things to which the Secretary for Law said it was related. 
The Ordinance puts the burden of proof on the defendant in very many cases. Let the Government try to deny it. The Secretary for Law claimed in his speech, which may have influenced the House of Assembly in passing the Bill, that many of the provisions merely spelt out the common law. However, section 4 of the Ordinance states that the Ordinance is not to be in derogation or amendment of any other law of the Territory, but is to be an addition to those other laws. So the old common law powers remain, and this Ordinance does give additional powers to the Government. 
I now come to the Public Solicitor and his role in New Guinea. We all know that some of the Tolai people on the Gazelle Peninsula have refused to pay tax to a certain local government council. They have been charged in the courts with failure to pay that tax. We make a lot of the fact that they should use the courts. They have applied to the Public Solicitor for aid, and I have seen his letter in reply to their application. He states that they satisfy his test of being without means and of having an arguable case with which to defend themselves, but that he has been directed by the Secretary for Law - and there can be no doubt where that direction came from; it came from Canberra - that legal aid was not to be given unless the applicant gave a statutory declaration disclosing his intention to pay the tax in any event, and that such a declaration had to be made available to the Administration for its general purposes. That is the effect of what he said in the letter. The grammar is not particularly good, but that is the best one can make of it. The alternative condition imposed was that the applicant pay tax first, because if he won his court case his legal defence would be overcome by retrospective legislation. Retrospective legislation, as we all know, is always bad and can only be justified in very extreme cases. 
The other condition was that the Public Solicitor had to be satisfied that the applicant was refusing to pay tax and that his refusal was an independent act on his part - independent of the policy of the Mataungan Association. The Public Solicitor was not to give legal assistance where he was not so satisfied unless the applicant supplied him with a statutory declaration from an office bearer of the Mataungan Association setting out all the assets of the Association. This is like saying to a member of the Liberal Party who has a court case on his hands, who has no means but who has an arguable case, that he cannot have legal aid unless he first discloses the assets of the Liberal Party. In conclusion, the Ordinance does nothing to further progress or advancement in Papua and New Guinea. Neither does the political direction to the Public Solicitor. In their combined and separate effect they are very repressive. 
The Department of the Interior is charged with the duty of administering many of the activities of government in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. It is an unusual government instrumentality because it handles such diverse matters as local transport, garbage, housing, kerbing and guttering, nature paths, adoption of children, welfare, agricultural services, animal and bird protection, architects' registration, boiler inspection, bush fire control, the Canberra Tourist Bureau, registration of dogs, civil defence, drivers' licences, electoral offices, forest management, fruit inspection, registration of hawkers, lake administration, meteorology, testing and registration of motor vehicles, the News and Information Bureau, the police, scaffolding and lifts, street cleaning, the War Memorial, weights and measures, and workers compensation. Many problems are posed by these diverse subjects which are a matter of serious concern as an accounting problem and also in terms of efficiency, as well as posing the problem of how such functions should be made accountable to representatives who are elected and responsible to the people of the Australian Capital Territory. This is a problem of territorial self-government. Time does not permit of this being discussed today. It is a very complex problem. What I have in mind to talk about today are the questions associated with the ownership and administration of land in the Australian Capital Territory and some of the dangers that I see to that administration and to the planning and development of the Australian Capita] Territory. 
Land has always played an essential part in all societies, lt is not and never has been regarded as a commodity available for sale or gift in the same manner as, say, a motor car or a book. This is partly because land is so permanent and is a source of wealth and power. There has always been a concept of duty imposed on the owner or the occupier of land. In mediaeval times he was obliged to render services of various kinds to the king or to the lord of his manor. The ownership of the residual interest in land was vested in the king. With the development of commercialism and commercial values these duties were replaced by a growing tendency to allow the free disposition of land and the free development of land and to permit the residual value in the land to belong to the occupier of it. The tendency was a progressive attenuation of the rights of the public interest in the land on the one hand and it brought about an increasing allotment to the occupier of all increases in value that occurred to the land. 
In a laissez-faire society this was regarded as an ideal thing to aim at. It often led to unjust enrichment. But in a laissez-faire society that was merely regarded as someone's good luck. However, with the emergence of the great metropolises of, say, New York and London and cities like Sydney and Melbourne this idea of absolute ownership in land placed more and more difficulties in the paths of town planners who act on behalf of the public and who try to ensure that the places we live in are beautiful and yet remain orderly. The tendency has also led to the gross evils of speculation in land which we have come to know so well and which are rife today. We all know of situations where astronomical increases in the value of land have occurred because land was ripe for redevelopment. I give 2 examples: The unimproved capital value of certain land in the city of Sydney was approximately $141ni in 1951. It rose to $566m in 1966. The unimproved capital value of land in Blacktown, which is a developing area in New South Wales, increased from approximately $3,500,000 in 1951 to $92m in 1966. Fortunes were made by speculators. Town and city planners and their plans wilted under their pressure and the activity of their lobbies. 
In situations of that sort the acquisition of land by the public for roads, playing areas and reserves has often been made impossible by the prohibitive cost of acquiring the land and the compensation that would have to be paid for it. The pressure of the developer and the speculator for change of land use has proved too much for the town planning schemes of the States where freehold land is the dominant system of land holding. In States such as New South Wales where the freehold concept of land holds sway, attempts to control land use by land zoning, with a complicated system of appeals to the Land Valuation Courts, have largely proved unsuccessful. One has only to look at the foreshores of Sydney Harbour and what has happened to them and to compare them with Canberra to see what I mean. Control of land use on behalf of the public is all important, because the future is a very long time. We here in the ACT are in the same situation as Sydney was in many years ago. Many parts of Canberra are becoming ripe for redevelopment. The integrity of the planning system of the ACT must be preserved. It must not be subjected to the stresses and pressures that the town planning systems of States like New South Wales have had to yield to. 
In the ACT we are fortunate because in 1910 our founding fathers decreed that all land released by government should not be released as freehold land. This left us with what is now the situation. Most of our land is held under a leasehold system. Those early statesmen who chose a leasehold system did so for a variety of reasons. The principal ones were, firstly, the idea that the residual value of land should belong to the community as a whole and not to individuals, and that all increases in value brought about by circumstances which were not the result of the efforts of the land holders themselves should accrue to the public instead of to some lucky individual. The leasehold system also ensured that governments would not be deterred from acquiring land in the public interest because of having to make enormous compensation payments. The second reason was to facilitate town planning, although they did not call it 'town planning' in those days. King O'Malley obviously had this in mind when he described how Canberra would become the pride of time'. If planning were facilitated by not having to make enormous compensation payments it was even more facilitated by putting 'purpose clauses' in the leases as they were issued. These purpose clauses determined the use to which the land could be put. The system makes provision for the occasions when those purpose clauses can be changed and enlarged. 
I believe that the Australian Capital Territory system of land tenure is the envy of every person in Australia who thinks seriously about the problems of urban living and how they can be overcome. The National Capital Development Commission was created in 1957 and was modelled on the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority. It was charged with the duty of undertaking and carrying out the development and construction of the city of Canberra as the national capital of Australia. It has been a magnificent example of successful government enterprise as a public corporation. I do not suggest that there have not been troubles in the administration of the system. I do believe that there are dangers that present themselves today. Over the years there have been demands for more frequent reappriasements of ground rents on a triennial basts rather than on a 20-year basis. In our changing society with values going up, the rate of change and the rate of development have been too great. 
There have been suggestions that the accounting system operated by the Department of the Interior has been faulty and that there have been delays in the production of a municipal account which relates to Australian Capital Territory finances. The decision of the High Court in the case of Esmonds Motors v. Nixon and the Commonwealth exposed many of these problems in such a way as to frighten the Government during the recent by-election. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  hastily announced his proposals to abolish land rents. These proposals to abolish land rents are the dangers that 1 have in mind. Up until that time, as far as I am aware and as far as I can ascertain through the research I have been able to do, there had been no public discussion, no agitation and no demands for any such step to abolish land rent. It is believed that the Government intends to abolish land rent as from the end of this year. This belief causes grave concern to many people in Canberra. 
They know that their rates will go up, but they do not know to what extent. They have been told that increased rates will be an income tax deduction whereas payments of ground rent are not, but they know that this will benefit only the wealthier members of the community. This proposal of the Government has much in common with its other proposals that it made in its recent Budget which also benefit wealthier groups in the community at the expense of the less wealthy. There is grave cause to suspect that the proposals result from pressure on the Government by large commercial lease holders in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The National Capital Development Commission is known to have opposed the proposal but would welcome an inquiry so that its views could be expressed in public. The Royal Australian Planning Institute has called for an inquiry by a parliamentary committee. The Town and Country Planning Association of Victoria has made representations that a full and genuine leasehold system be retained in the Australian Capital Territory. There is another aspect that causes concern. The proposals of the Government amount to a unilateral repudiation of the contracts that the Commonwealth has entered into in its leasehold agreements with about 20,000 people in the Australian Capital Territory. They are all lessees of the Commonwealth. They have not been consulted. They are about to have their contracts changed at the whim of the Government. 
There are many questions that have to be answered. What are the advantages of the abolition of land rent? Have any representations been made by responsible bodies for the abolition of land rent? Will the Minister make them available? There is a more insidious feature to it all. It is known that land rent is based on 5 per cent of the unimproved capital value of the land - re-appraisals take place every 20 years - and that this value obviously depends on the scope of the pur post clause in the lease. If a person has a narrow purpose clause in a lease, the land is likely to be of less value than if there is a broad purpose clause in the lease which permits all sorts of activity and development to take place. The reasoning behind this 5 per cent is that a proportion of the value of the land always belongs to public interest. 
If land rent as geared to value is abolished will speculators buy up land with the purpose of changing the purpose clause, knowing that it will result tn increased value, that they will not have to share that increased value with the Government as they have to do now and that it will go to them instead of being siphoned off to the community through the Government? This could happen because a developer or a speculator would only have to pay rates if land rent were abolished, and if rates reflect the traditional concept that they are only a reimbursement for the cost of services to land, they will not have the inhibiting effect on a speculator or a developer that ground rent has. If this happens, the legal safeguards that we have created may be inadequate. They haw proved to be inadequate in New South Wales and elsewhere. 
Will the imposition of a reserve price on future leases impose an additional cash burden on home builders, a cost which is now recovered by the Government from rent over a long period? Surely this is preferable both from the Government point of view and for the person who wants to build his home for the first time. The occasional high premiums that are paid for land are a result of land scarcity and nothing else. Release more land and the premiums will fall and will be a mere indication of a person's choice of a block of land. The Australian Capital Territory should provide the guidelines for a systematic and financially viable programme for new towns and communities throughout Australia. The proper legal, financial and administrative provisions associated with the legal system must be worked out and thought out properly. The part played bv ground rent in the leasehold system, and the manner and the extent to which it in itself, over, apart and separate from the purpose clause, provides for control of land use, must be properly understood. It is understood insufficiently at this time. If these questions are not answered satisfactorily, the progress that has been made in Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory to date may well be placed in serious jeopardy. 
Sitting suspended from 5.54 to 8 p.m. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education and Science, arises out of the Minister's 2 recent announcements that the Government has decided against holding an inquiry into education in the Australian Capital Territory at this time. I ask: Did the Minister's own Department in its submissions recommend or approve of an inquiry being held and did he himself advise that such an inquiry was justified at this time? Did the decision take into account the enormous benefits that would result to Australian education generally from such an inquiry? Does his announcement yesterday, as reported, mean that an inquiry should not be held into how the present system should be changed until after the Government has changed it? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has he stated that the Government does not recognise traditional Aboriginal land rights; if  so,  what is the explanation of, and what are the reasons for, this policy. 
Does the Government have any alternative to the granting of land rights to Aboriginals. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a recent advertisement in a Canberra newspaper stating that the Australian Capital Territory freehold property known as the Mount McDonald Block was for sale and to the advertised claim that it had particular value because of ite sub-division potential. 
if so, has his Department changed its attitude to the control of freehold land in the A.C.T. as it was last expressed in 1967. 
What is the Department's attitude to the advertisement and to the control of freehold land in the Territory. 
Is it intended to acquire the remaining freehold land in the A.C.T. 
I wish to say a few words about the recent announcement by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  that the Government will not be holding an inquiry into education in the Australian Capital Territory at this stage. I emphasise the words 'at this stage', because it does seem to me that those words were added to the statement only to enable the Government to try to avoid the criticism that it knew or must have known would follow from its decision. It is well known that for many years there have been persistent demands for an inquiry to be held into education in the Australian Capita] Territory. In 1967 a working party led by  Sir George  Currie, a former vice-chancellor of the Universities of Queensland  and Western Australia, investigated the problem and recommended that such an inquiry be set up. 
The Department of the Interior thought enough of the work of the Currie Committee that it took up the report and arranged for its publication and distribution. The report subsequently became known as the Currie Report and was favourably commented upon by everyone who read and studied it. Since then every responsible body associated with education in the Australian Capital Territory - there are many of them here, because education is a very live issue in the Territory - has demanded that an inquiry be held. Now the Government has said that we shall not have an inquiry. At first the Minister gave no reasons for the Government's decision. When he was forced to give an explanation by the outcry that resulted in the local Press and the correspondents' columns of the 'Canberra Times' he then proceeded to make it clear that he had completely misunderstood the whole nature of the demand for an inquiry. He seems to have thought that it was limited to the form, the structure and the timing of having a separate education authority set up in the Australian Capital Territory that would set us apart from the system of New South Wales with which we have been allowed to linger for so long. This was not so. lt was only a small part of what it was hoped the inquiry would investigate. The real subject crf the inquiry was hoped to be the pursuit of no less an ambitious and imaginative project than what could be an ideal system of education. 
We hear a lot about a crisis in Australian education. We hear a lot from Government supporters about State rights. They say that education is essentially a State matter and not a matter for the Commonwealth. These answers to criticisms allow the Government partially to escape its responsibility for what is happening to education in the States, but they do not allow the Government to escape from its responsibilities for education in the Territories. Of all types of human undertaking education has been the slowest to respond to change in this century of change. The complexity of the learning process itself is a process very vaguely understood by comparison with relatively simple matters like sending a man to the moon or building aircraft like the Fill. There is much confusion in our thinking and no real thought is being given to what goes on in our schools. Time and time again we fall back on the most convenient solution, which is simply to rely on the old ways of doing things, occasionally adding a gimmick, a mechanical aid or a slightly revised curriculum as a gesture that we are up to date with the times. 
The ACT offers a unique opportunity to any Australian government to break new ground; to be a pioneer in education and research; to lead the way instead of merely drifting along and occasionally being forced to do something to meet a sudden and seemingly unforeseen contingency. Such a contingency is the recent refusal of the South Australian Government to continue to staff Commonwealth schools in the Northern Territory. That forced the Commonwealth Government suddenly to set up a Commonwealth teaching service, but without any carefully thought out plan to further the Commonwealth educational services. The Commonwealth Government has thrown away a wonderful opportunity. It probably did not even know that the opportunity was there. Letters to the Press and the editorials of the 'Canberra Times' showed that the people of the ACT knew it was there and know that they have lost an opportunity to lead the way in education for the whole of Australia, and to set a standard which the States would follow. lt was partly because the Government knew that it would be embarrassed by the States if it did make any progress in education that it decided to do nothing. Of course, at a lower level, and away from the search for an ideal system of education, is the factual and shocking situation in our secondary schools today. It is as bad in the ACT as anywhere. I will describe a few of the symptoms of this situation. In Deakin High School so far this year 23 forms have had 4 or more teachers a subject for a form. Many of these forms have to prepare for the School Certificate and Higher School Certificate examinations. It is in the Sth and 6th forms that the problem is particularly acute. Students who are really young men and women are required to attend a school as a kind of child minding centre, with no teachers to instruct them. The school is just to keep them away from home. 
There is more discontent in our schools than ever before. The morale amongst students is worse than it has ever been. Why? An inquiry might have helped us to find out. Many questions have to be answered. Should we break our high schools in two? Are they too big and impersonal? Should there be a junior high school up to 4th form, and a senior high school for the 5th and 6th forms? The work done by students in 5th and 6th forms is very similar to first year university work of a few years ago. How do we make our schools more relevant to modern day living? How do we ensure that they provide a stimulating and progressive type of activity so that the curriculum is exciting and meaningful to the young? How do we overcome the boredom and the alienation that are such features of school life today? How do we free our teachers from the over-centralised and rigid bureaucracy that has characterised all Australian educational systems since the 1880s? Why is the resignation rate for teachers running at about 13 per cent? 
I know of one group of 229 teachers who were appointed in 1967. In 1970 only 121 of them are still teaching. The turnover of teachers is about 30 per cent. What good is it to recruit teachers by offering them scholarships for teacher training if you are to lose them to industry within a few years? That does not help education. All it does is subsidise industry or commerce. 
I believe that the search for the solution must be done in the open. It should be done with the full participation of all interested parties. We should all know what is happening and what can be done about it. It should not be done behind closed departmental doors. It should not be done for us by people who think that they know what is best for us. That is the Liberal Party way. It has been its way for some 20-odd years. Of course, I do not suggest that the problems are easy of solution. They are not. But it is for that very reason that a full scale public inquiry should be held and should be held soon. It would be a light and a beacon for the whole of Australian education. 
Why has an inquiry been refused? I believe that it is because of a combination of many factors. Firstly, I think that the Government did not understand the problem. It did not even recognise that it was there. Secondly, it would not be sympathetic even if it did understand the problem. Thirdly, the Government is so bound up with the failings in the State educational systems that it would be terribly embarrassed if it tried to improve the Commonwealth system of education because the States would cry out: "What about us?' In his attempt to explain the dilemma, the Minister for Education and Science tied himself in a knot. If I can paraphrase his statement, the Minister said: 'The ACT should not have an inquiry into how its present system of education should be changed until after the Government has changed it*. The people of the ACT are very disappointed. Many of them - I repeat, many of them - are quite angry. I believe that, when the full story on education slowly comes out, the people of Australia also will be angry. 
After having heard the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  I found myself thinking that some of what I would say would be repetitious, but after having heard the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  I found myself thinking that repetition would not be a bad thing because either he did not hear what the honourable member for Hindmarsh had to say or he did not understand it. I found myself thinking, after having heard the honour able member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  much the same thought until I heard the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  and then I thought that perhaps none of the honourable members opposite had understood the purpose of the motion which has nothing to do with the way in which the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission works. It mounts an attack, a serious attack, on the pronouncements of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and the Minister for Labour and National Service which are calculated to embarrass, compromise and prejudice the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The only answer that honourable members opposite have given to our criticism has been to attack the workings of the Commission. They have not answered any of the charges made by the motion. 
It is interesting to refer to the history and the beginning, as far as my researches go, of the Government's attack on the Commission. It was in about 1967 that the first attack that I can trace was made. It drew forth the reply from  Mr Justice  Gallagher and Commissioner Winter and which has already been mentioned. They replied to the attack that had been made on them by the then Minister for Labour and National Service. The House has been told what that comment was and it bears repetition. They said that they would not be influenced or intimidated by any party, including Ministers. That was a clear indication of where the emphasis lay. They added: 
All extraneous utterances, whatever their source or nature, will be ignored. 
This goes to the whole intent of this motion. The Commission must be protected. It must not be made liable to attack from government at this level.  Sir Richard  Kirby had to say much the same thine to protect himself. This motion seeks to add to that protection. In response to another attack,  Sir Richard  Kirby is reported in the 'Australian' of 5th June 1968 to have said: 
My colleagues and myself make our decisions on the material and the submissions made to us in the court room and not otherwise. 
No-one from this side of the House suggests that they should be influenced. The ideal situation is that they should sit in their adjudications independently and with as much impartiality as they can muster but that is almost impossible when Ministers of the Crown subject them to pressure. No-one denies that the role of the Commission is very difficult. Its role has been made difficult. No-one can deny that it has been allowed and encouraged - one might say even forced - to depart from the original concept of  Mr Justice  Higgins who, years ago. expressed the hope that it should be a new province for law and order. There can be no doubt that in its present day role it makes rules that have extremely wide application and . consequences for Australia and which should be a matter for economic policy determined at the highest level. lt has gone a long way from its original idea of being a conciliator and adjudicator in debates between parties. When one says this one must not lose sight of the fact that it still is, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh pointed out, an adjudicator of disputes. Its power flows from section 51, placitum XXXV of the Constitution. We all know that the Government has no direct power to make laws controlling prices or wages or implementing price or wage policy. This is not to say that it should not have the power and should not work out such policy in a proper way. We all know that the Commission is not really equipped by its training and by the nature of its adversary process to determine and implement an economic policy that determines wages and prices, and yet this is what it has been allowed to do, encouraged to do and even forced to do by government. Of course, in purporting to do that, it has worked out principles, not in any sort of pragmatic way but principles as courts of law work them out when they make judge made law. This is the way the common law grew up. So the Commission has tried to follow a similar sort of evolutionary process of developing principle because government has abdicated the field and forced the Commission to extend its field of operations. Government has left a void that the Commission has had to try to fill. 
Notwithstanding that it is not a court, and notwithstanding that it has extended its functions far beyond the mere offering of conciliation to disputants, and an adjudicator of disputes, the Commission does have many of the features of a court that should be protected and respected by outside bodies. There must be parties to bring a dispute before it. There must be a dispute, and outsiders like the Commonwealth Government can appear only as third parties. It functions in the traditional adversary type system that is found in our courts, and for this reason many of the rules applicable to our courts apply to it and should apply to it. As the honourable member for Hindmarsh has pointed out, a rule, contained in section 182 of the Act, makes it a serious offence for a person to use words either in writing or in a speech that are calculated to influence improperly a member of the Commission or the Commission. The reasoning behind this section is very similar to the reasoning that lies behind the sub judice rule in courts of law - which is to ensure that justice appears to be done, and that the parties appearing appear to get a fair go, that the tribunal itself is protected and not subjected to pressures, because if it has to make a decision, and it has to make a decision sooner or later, it must appear, above all else, that when it does give that decision, it is made on the evidence before it and the submissions that are put to it and which can be answered before it; and not by what someone like the Prime Minister or any other Minister has said outside the tribunal and which cannot be answered before the tribunal. People with suspicious minds may think: 'Well, the Commission may have been influenced'. This would be a departure from the high standards and high status that should be accorded to it. Sometimes, of course, in our courts we do cut corners a little. We do not give the same strict application of the principle to all courts, but it is an ideal that should be followed. 
It seems to me that 3 things could really happen to the Commission with its problems and its future. Firstly, we could follow the present policy. We could take the Commission, with its principle of adjudicating on disputes, with its existing machinery, with its existing background of an adversary system with people trained essentially in the law and with experience of industrial conditions, and allow it to extend, by development of principles, into the industrial field as, indeed it has done, to make common rules for industry. If that is to be the test, then government has abdicated its principle, abdicated  its role  and abdicated the part it should play. If that is to be the situation then it is predictable that one should see a government of that sort seeking to come in and influence and pressurise the Commission, saying: Well, you must do this or you shall not do that otherwise it will be a disaster'. If that happens then the whole standard of the tribunal drops. 
The alternative is to have a proper realisation of the workings of the Commission and a proper approach to the Commission in its  present  form, with  proper  submissions put to it by counsel for the Commonwealth, properly documented showing what the Government does say should be done and not in the generalities that have been referred to today as having been resorted to in recent years. Reference has been made already to the speech by counsel,  Mr Justice  Kerr as he is today, back in the 1966 national wage case when he said that they only wanted a moderate wage increase. When he was asked: 'What do you mean? Please help us more' - I think it was  Mr Justice  Wright who said it - there was no assistance from the Commonwealth at all. In other words the Commonwealth makes a general purposefully vague decision, hands it over to its counsel, puts up the generality to the tribunal, does not give the Commission adequate assistance and then criticises it later for its decision and blames it. The Government tries to have the best of both worlds. It abdicates it responsibility and then seeks to have a scapegoat it can blame when something goes wrong or something happens of which it does not approve. 
The third alternative, of course, would require constitutional amendment or a more imaginative legislative scheme that would enable the Government to legislate in a policy arena in a policy way so as to fix wages and prices. It may not inevitably require constitutional amendment but we have had a number of recommendations on this matter from responsible bodies. The Government has done nothing about any of them and so the present system limps along. The real fact of the situation is that the Government, having done nothing constructive in the area for so long, allows the Commission to develop its principles with the best will in the world and with the utmost skill it can muster - as common law courts have developed principles and law over the years in developing systems of common law - but the Government does not accord the Commission the independence it is entitled to and which it gives to the Government. It seeks to say: If you go wrong or do something we do not approve of we will rap you over the knuckles and we will let you know well in advance so that you can give the decision that we want you to give'. That, it seems to me, is the real fault that should be sheeted home to this Government. It has nothing to do with the other difficulties of the Commission. The Commission has done a wonderful job and speakers on this side of the House recognise that. But what is wrong, and what is the purpose of this motion, is to criticise the Government's attack on the Commission. 
asked the Minister  for  the Interior, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that there is no legislation in the Australian Capital Territory requiring employers to have compulsory insurance cover for their liability to their employees other than workmen's compensation liability. 
Has bis attention been drawn to the case decided in the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory in May 1970 of Maljevic against Frederick W. Nielsen Pty Ltd in which  Mr Maljevic  was awarded damages of $90,000 plus costs for injuries of a paraplegic nature and in which the defendant company was only insured for $40,000 pursuant to its obligations under the New South Wales Workers' Compensation Act. 
If so, will he consider this case and the problem of  Mr Maljevic  who has no prospect of receiving the damages and costs awarded him and has now to incur extra legal expenses in an attempt to recover something as a compromise. 
In view of this case, will he take immediate steps to introduce legislation to overcome Ibis deficiency in the law of the Australian Capital Territory. . 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
When is it expected that modern comprehensive factories and shops legislation will be enacted for the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Will be make available, either by tabling in the House or otherwise, all booklets and pamphlets and other written memoranda and advice setting OUt instructions or advice to police in the Australian Capital Territory concerning their duties and the role they should play when crowds gather or demonstrations occur in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If these documents relate to instructions or advice given to oilier police forces in Australia or elsewhere which are acted upon by the Australian Capital Territory police, will he also make these documents available. 
I  present  the  following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of. citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the people of the Australian Capital Territory, through the Government, have no control over the provision of fire fighting services in the A.C.T. 
Is the provision of fire fighting services in the A.C.T. still under the control of the Board of Fire Commissioners of New South Wales which is not responsible to anyone in the A.C.T. 
Are all fire brigade officers employees of, and subject to the control of, that Board. 
In view of the need of the people of the A.C.T. to have adequate fire fighting services, is the present system a desirable one. 
Is it a fact that the fire fighting services of the A.C.T. compare very unfavourably with the fire fighting services of, say, Newcastle and Wollongong. 
Has his attention been drawn to the view expressed by the A.C.T. Branch of the New South Wales Fire Brigade Union that the fire fighting services in the A.C.T. are under-staffed and below the minimum required for operational efficiency. 
If so, will he take steps to investigate the Union claim. 
Will he also take steps to ensure that control of these services is passed to an authority which is responsible to the people of the A.C.T. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Did the Government during the recent byelection in the Australian Capital Territory announce that ft intended to introduce consumer protection legislation. 
If so, what steps have been taken to draw up the legislation, and when will it be introduced. 
 I speak in support of the amendment. Having listened to the various honourable members who have been speaking in support of the amendment and to the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  and others on the Government side, the principal thought that emerges, it seems to me, is the remarkable degree of general concensus that exists in this House on the questions posed by the Bill and the amendment. The problem is one which we have had in the Australian Capital Territory since 1967. The Canberra College of Advanced Education was set up at a time when the role that colleges of advanced education were to play in the community had not been really thought out in great detail or depth. 
We have had our universities since time immemorial, and we have gone through the blossoming period in the postwar years when universities were increasing in numbers, were being extended and were facing problems of their own such as deciding whether they should go into particular fields. I am mindful, for example, that the law faculty at the Australian National University considered whether it should institute some kind of workshop practice to make up for the old fashioned system of articles. But there seemed to be a general movement toward a common ideal - a general upgrading of the colleges of advanced education - that their purposes should be more technical and more professional and that there should be a movement of the universities perhaps in the same direction, coupled of course, with a desire on the part of colleges of advanced education to attain to the ideals of independence, free inquiry and research that are so often associated with universities but which traditionally have not been found in technical colleges, at least not to the same extent. 
We live in changing times, and today even in our high schools, let alone in the colleges of advanced education, one gets a planting of these ideals of inquiry, independence and thinking things out for oneself which at one time we tended to associate almost exclusively with the university ideal. So the whole pattern and landscape is changing enormously. If we can get concensus on that we can get consensus on the trend that is taking place in the colleges and in the high schools of moving ever forward to this ideal which I think we would all agree upon. 
One only has to look at the purpose of the Bill to see what it sets out to do. Of course it sets out to a very laudable thing, and that is why the members on this side of the House do not oppose it. lt sets out to give a degree awarding power to the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education, to put it more on the level of universities. This power has been sought after and demanded.  H  was not given when the College was set up in 1967. lt was not Government policy to grant such power then, but the Government has now changed its policy and is giving a degree awarding power to the College. We on this side of the House ask the Government to go one step further and encourage this trend so that greater fulfilment and greater representation can be achieved between the colleges and outside bodies, members of Parliament, and indeed representative interests in the community - commerce, industry, staff, scholastic bodies and other interested bodies - so there can be this interchange of ideas that we have traditionally tended to associate with universities. The Australian National University has this written into its statute. We ask that the Government accept the amendment so that a similar sort of standard can be applied to the colleges of advanced education and so that they can continue to move forward. 
I could go on and discuss the question: What is education? It seems to me that it is not merely the following of formal courses, whether they be at colleges of advanced education, universities or high schools. It has to be put on some sort of broader plane. It is really not only a course of formal study but an enrichment that comes from experience. If enrichment comes from experience brought about by the following of courses, it comes from exchange of ideas. If exchanges of ideas are beneficial, the more interchange and the more interrelationship there is between colleges and outsiders such as members of Parliament, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said, the better. 
Yesterday a new Bill concerning the Australian National University, dealing with questions of representation, was introduced in this House. Already 2 young men have been to see me asking whether it will come on today or whether it will come on tomorrow because they are vitally interested in it. This indicates the degree of concern and of interest in matters of education that exists in this city. If one goes back to the original enactment of the Canberra College of Advanced Education in 1967, one sees the way that the purposes of the College were then spell out. Its functions were set out in this way, and they are still in this form:  to conduct ... an institution for the provision of education and training of such kinds, and in such departments of science, technology, arts, administration, commerce and other fields of knowledge or of the application of knowledge, as the Council with the  approval  of the Minister, determines or as the Minister requires, and, in particular, education and training appropriate to professional and other occupations requiring advanced education; 
We see the use of a large number of words in that passage. There is the repeated use of the word 'education'. As I have said, education, it seems to me. means not only formal education but also the acquisition of experience and being exposed to experience in a setting, ideally, where there is a tradition of mutuality, independence, free inquiry and things of this sort. The functions of the Canberra College of Advanced Education also include:  to use the facilities and resources of the College to advance and develop knowledge and skills in the fields with which the College is concerned; 
When it was originally formed it had no power to award degrees, and as part of the general trend it is now to be given that power. One can gain some advantage if one looks at the relevant statute which created the Australian National University. Other speakers have asked: What was the difference, what is the difference and what will be the difference, if any, between universities and colleges of advanced education? The statute for the Australian National University, which was enacted in 1946, gave the university the function of providing facilities for university education. It was spelt out in no more detail than that. This drives me back, I suppose, to the question: What is university education? I think I have said enough to indicate my thoughts on that and to indicate also that in colleges of advanced education we - are getting a movement. The two ideals are coming closer together and ultimately will blend. It is a question of encouraging or not encouraging them. The structure of the Australian National University, of course, was changed in 1960 when it was divided into an Institute of Advanced Studies and a School of General Studies. The ordinary graduate work has been given to the School of General Studies. But the point is that we must give encouragement to it. 
In this city there is great interest in representation: It seems to me that if we can put members of this House on the Council of the College of Advanced Education that Council will benefit because, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said, the Council will take to it members of this House, properly elected by this House, who will bring with them a width of experience and knowledge from whatever particular field they come. It can only be of benefit. Indeed, it will work both ways, because it will give back to this House through members not cut off from the community - not, of course, that members of the Parliament should be cut off from the community - their experience on the Council. That experience will add to the weight of their arguments, whether it be in some educational committee of the Party to which they belong or whether it be in some joint parliamentary committee. They will add to the weight of their words the experience that they have gained from sitting on the Council of the College of Advanced Education. Much as members of this House who sit on the Council of the Australian National University are enriched by it. and indeed the Senators who sit on the Council of the Australian National University are enriched by it, so, too, will the members of the Council of the College of Advanced Education be enriched. To gain this mutuality, this exchange of ideas, this fertilisation of ideas, members of the Parliament should be on the Council. This is terribly important and it will hasten the uplifting and upgrading of the College of Advanced Education until eventually the time will come when it will be undertaking research just as much as the universities undertake it. We cannot stop it. It is inevitable, but the process should be hastened and not be discouraged. 
In the amendment, there is reference to 3 other representatives on the Council from interests in the community. As it stands at the moment, of course, we are giving the power of appointment in an unfettered way. The discretion is unfettered. What we suggest . should be done is to define the interests in a prescribed way in this House so that they can be given weight to by the appointing body. In that way it seems to us that there will be a greater trend to a democratic process. Instead of leaving it to the discretion of a particular person or group of persons, who may or may not exercise it wisely, a direction will be given that weight should be given to this particular interest of commerce, that particular interest of industry or other academia. As it works out at the moment there is a weighting in favour of the Australian National University personnel. No-one would argue otherwise. We suggest only that other interested bodies be represented because of the arguments I have put. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that 50 clerks in the stores section of the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Williamtown went on strike on Thursday, 24th August 1970 over pay claims; if so, will the Minister give an assurance that no disciplinary action and no charges will be brought against these men. 
Are 2 senior officers now at Williamtown examining and reporting on the situation; if so, will the Minister make their report available. 
Will the Minister outline the procedure that is to be followed in considering the claim by 100 equipment assistants at the Royal Australian Air Force Tottenham Stores. Depot for increased pay and better conditions. 
asked the  AttorneyGeneral,  upon notice: 
Is it a fact that prosecutions may be launched in Canberra in respect of the sale of the book 'Portnoy's Complaint'. 
Is he able to say whether this possibility of prosecution has had a widespread deterrent effect on booksellers in Canberra. 
Is it a fact that there is  a  legal requirement in the Australian Capital Territory that no prosecution shall be launched under the law of the Territory without the written consent of the Attorney-General or  a  person authorised by him to give such consent 
Has he read 'Portnoy's Complaint'; if so, is he qualified to say whether or not the book has literary merit 
Ifhe has not read the book, has any officer of his Department been authorised to read it; if so, is that person qualified to decide whether or not it has literary merit 
As the book is widely read throughout the world and is now being sold in South Australia, will he consider this as an indication that the book has literary merit or as a reason for not giving his consent to a prosecution. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  at the Committee stage I will move an amendment in the following terms: 
Clause 4, page 2, at the end of sub-clause (!.) add the following proviso: 
Provided that no criminal prosecution under the applied provisions of this Act shall be instituted after the date on which it receives the Royal Assent in respect of acts or omissions occurring before it receives that assent.'. 
The purpose of this amendment is to avoid the retrospective enactment of criminal laws by this Parliament. Honourable members will be aware of some of the circumstances which create the necessity for the enactment of legislation such as is contained in this Bill. The need for legislation such as this arises out of what can only be described as the legal complexities of our legal system which result from the Constitution as it has been interpreted by the High Court and the provisions of the Judiciary Act, and which have produced a dual system of laws creating Federal jurisdictions over some matters and areas and State jurisdictions over other matters and areas. 
To understand what has happened and the amendment to what I understand the legislation seeks to achieve, we need to bear in mind continually the division of legislative powers between the Commonwealth and Slate governments. Tn some areas, the powers overlap. In other areas, the powers do not overlap. We are fortunate at least that the problem does not affect the Commonwealth Territories. We all know that the Constitution gives power to the Commonwealth Government to make laws on the subjects which are set out in section 51 of the Constitution, and we also know that it imposes certain prohibition and restrictions on the Commonwealth Government, which have the effect of making some of the laws which it might want to pass invalid for one reason or another. Many of these prohibitions and restrictions do not apply to State laws. 
Sometimes the prohibitions are not immediately apparent, and this can be said to be the case in the section of the Constitution which, as it has now been interpreted by the High Court, has produced the necessity for this legislation. 
The section is 52 (1 .) of the Constitution which gives to the Commonwealth the exclusive power to make laws in respect to all places acquired by the Commonwealth for public purposes. This means, as it has now been interpreted in Worthing's case, that the States have no power to make laws that relate to such places. It means that, whereas it has always been assumed that State law applied to such Commonwealth places as military establishments, quarantine establishments, post offices, perhaps Commonwealth research establishments and Commonwealth courts as may be located in the States, the fact is that many such laws do not apply. I think that it is fair to say that the decision in Worthing's case surprised many lawyers, although the problem had been the subject of speculation and comment on and off for years. As a problem, it bad never come before the High Court before. 
Briefly, the facts of Worthing's case were that a  Mr Worthing,  who has now made legal history, was injured when he fell from his working place which was located at the Royal Australian Air Force base at Richmond in New South Wales. He sued his employer for damages and sought to rely on the New South Wales Scaffolding and Lifts Regulations which imposed certain duties on employers to provide certain safeguards for their employees. That legislation confers important rights on injured workmen. In this case, the employers counsel argued that the regulations did not apply at the RAAF base at Richmond because it was a Commonwealth place, legislation had been been enacted by New South Wales after the base became a Commonwealth place and so it came within the scope of section 52(1.) of the Constitution. 
Eventually, the case found its way to the High Court. The Court held by a majority of 4 justices to 3 justices that the regulations did not apply on the RAAF base. The reasoning behind the decision is applicable to many other kinds of State laws. The decision revealed a void in all such 
Commonwealth places from the time when they had been acquired from the Commonwealth. Now, by this Bill the Commonwealth seeks to fill that void. 
There are of course 2 general alternatives that could be adopted to solve the problem. The first would be for the Commonwealth to enact a comprehensive new code of Commonwealth laws that would be probably different in many ways from the laws of the States, and that would apply to these Commonwealth places. It is obvious, I think, that this alternative has been rejected by the Government and we have no quarrel about that. The other alternative was to enact legislation that adopts State laws as Commonwealth laws and this is what has been done. However, the extent of the difficulties posed by Worthing's case were not readily apparent it appears even to the judges of the High Court who decided the case. 
The Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, at page 235 of his judgment as reported in the Australian Law Journal, saw no great difficulty, for he said: 
No doubt the Parliament will need to legislate to fill a void which a decision in the sense of my opinion would have disclosed. But it can be done so  referentially,  and without delay or difficulty, merely by continuing by dint of Commonwealth law, the terms of State legislation which would be applicable if the place or places so acquired, or for that matter to be applied, had remained within the legislative jurisdiction of the State legislature. 
Similarly,  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Windeyer at page 247 of his judgment as reported in the Australian Law Journal said: 
However, the inconveniences and complications that arise upon this view are less serious than would be those that would come from any other of the suggested constructions of Section 52. They are less serious because they are easily remedial by the Commonwealth Parliament. It does not have to enact a complete code of laws, criminal and civil, for all Commonwealth places as a substitute for anarchy there. For there is no anarchy, merely divergences in the law applicable in different places within a State which were acquired by the Commonwealth at different times. That lack of uniformity in the operations of State law could be overcome by a short Commonwealth Act while at the same time ensuring that Commonwealth places remain within Commonwealth control. As I see it, all that is necessary to resolve all the difficulties is a Commonwealth Statute providing that the laws of each State from time to time in force, should have full force and effect in all places already acquired or acquired in the future by the Commonwealth . . . 
His Honour went on to say: 
Save in so far as any such State law is inconsistent with any Commonwealth law or is incompatible with the conduct by the Commonwealth of its lawful purposes carried on in any such place. 
Therefore, he began to touch on the problem as it appears and as became apparent to the Parliamentary draftsmen when they began to tackle the problem. 
Immediately the experienced and very capable legal officers of the Commonwealth Attorney-General's Department began looking at the problem that had to be solved, they discovered that it could not be done by a simple short Act. They discovered a situation that was almost bizarre in its complexity. If they were going to enact a Commonwealth law to convert State laws into Commonwealth laws they had to consider a number of problems. They had to consider, for example, the difficulty of State laws controlling Commonwealth instrumentalities and Commonwealth laws controlling State instrumentalities. They had to decide whether to make the legislation retrospective and, if so, how to make it retrospective. In this context - of course, my foreshadowed amendment is directed to one aspect of this point - they had to consider whether the civil law should be made retrospective and whether the criminal law should be made retrospective. They decided that they would make both civil and criminal law retrospective, lt is to this latter aspect of making retrospective criminal law that this amendment is directed and which it seeks to overcome. They had to decide what to do about State police and other State officials who administer State laws - officials like scaffolding and lift inspectors and factories and shop inspectors. These good people are employees of the State and not of the Commonwealth, and the Commonwealth has no control over them. In pursuance of their duties as State employees they are not obliged to enforce Commonwealth laws. There have been reports of State police refusing to perform what would otherwise be police duty because of the fact that some incident with which they would otherwise have been concerned had happened on Commonwealth property. 
The draftsmen had to be careful that if they restated all the State laws as Commonwealth laws they did not bring about some invalidity in those State laws that flowed not from State law and not from section 52 (1.) of the Constitution but from some other provision of the Commonwealth Constitution. For example, section 55 of the Constitution requires that a Commonwealth law imposing a tax must impose the tax only and do nothing else. State laws do not have to be so limited. A general Commonwealth law applying all State laws might infringe section 55. The draftsmen also bad to be careful about section 109 of the Constitution which makes Commonwealth laws prevail over State laws where they are inconsistent with each other. The draftsmen also had to be careful about re-enacting all the State laws as Commonwealth laws because different tests apply to determine appeals to the High Court and to the Privy Council when the appeals arise out of State law from when they arise out of Commonwealth law. We know that the Commonwealth position on appeals to the Privy Council is different from the position of the States. It was thought proper, and we agree with it, that insofar as it was possible, the position should be restored to as near as possible to what it was before Worthing's case was decided. There should be no addition to the differences and divergencies that already exist between various parts of Australia. 
The draftsmen had to be careful that in giving Commonwealth judicial power to State courts and tribunals they complied with section 77 of the Constitution, because many State tribunals are not constituted in such a way that they can exercise the judicial power of the Commonwealth. There were many other problems, and the draftsmen have done their best to anticipate them and legislate to overcome them. Only time will tell whether they have succeeded and the extent to which they have succeeded. 
I come back to the retrospective enactment of criminal law as a problem, because that is a feature of the Bill and that is the purpose of the amendment to be directed at it. The Opposition believes that criminal law should only be enacted retrospectively in the most serious cases - and this is a general proposition with which few people would disagree - and to overcome some particularly acute problem that cannot be overcome in any other way. We believe that if there is no criminal law on a subject it is one thing to enact a law that makes behaviour criminal in the future but quite another thing to enact a law that says that what was not criminal in the past shall be regarded as always having been criminal. This is a fundamental and very important principle. We know of no cases that would be prejudiced or no hardship that would take place through following the normal course and enacting criminal law as from the time of the commencement of the Act. Since Worthing's case it is true that a number of cases have come before the courts where defendants have pleaded the defence that is based upon the reasoning in Worthing's case. This is not uncommon because defences of this sort become fashionable once it becomes known to lawyers the success that can attach to them. We believe that these defendants should be entitled to rely on the law as it has been declared by the High Court until it is changed by this Parliament. We do not believe that this Parliament should take away any of those defences by changing the law retrospectively. Clearly some cases are stronger than others but if this Act is made retrospective as far as the criminal law is concerned the defendants in such cases will be liable tobe charged again, notwithstanding that they have already been charged, tried and possibly acquitted. This is double jeopardy, which should always be avoided. We believe that it is not good enough to rely on the discretion of public servants, who are in some prosecuting section somewhere, not to charge again a man who has already been charged once because of some feeling that they may or may not have as to whether he has been sufficiently prejudiced or whether they consider the case serious enough or not serious enough to warrant a second prosecution. We believe that such matters are too important to be left to the discretion of prosecuting officers in State courts of petty sessions and other State prosecuting officers. 
The amendment, if it is carried, will be in the best traditions of the English law. We believe that if a person has a good legal defence, because the High Court has said so, he should not have it taken away from him retrospectively unless there are extremely compelling reasons, and we do not believe that sufficient reasons exist in this case. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Debate interrupted. 
I refer to clause 4 which reads, in part:  (1.) The provisions of the laws of a State as in force at a time (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) apply, or shall be deemed to have applied, in accordance with their tenor, at that time in and in relation to each place in that State that is or was a Commonwealth place at that time. 
I move: 
At the end of sub-clause (1.) add the following proviso: 
Provided that no criminal prosecution under the applied provisions of this Act shall be instituted after the date on which it receives the Royal Assent in respect of acts or omissions occurring before it receives that assent.'. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is there any rule of law or of practice in the Army that requires an officer to instruct a private to cease being a member of a political party. 
If so, will he describe and identify the rule. 
Is he in a position to state whether instructions have been given by an Army officer serving in Canberra to a private serving in his unit in Canberra that he should cease to be a member of the Australian Labor Party while he remains in the Army. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the population of the Australian Capita] Territory is increasing at about 9 per cent per annum compound. 
Did he state on 20th August 1970 that the Government believed that we may well have reached the time when there h need for extra representation for the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, is the Government taking any steps or  making any preparation to create a second seat for the Australian Capital Territory in the House of Representatives. 
If steps are being taken what are they. 
asked the Minister for Army, upon notice: 
Is regulation 219(a) of Australian Military Orders contravened when a member of the Army on leave attends branch meetings of a political party. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Can he arrange for slock exchange reports to be available on the local Australian Capital Territory telephone exchange as they are available in Sydney by dialling 207. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he and the Public Service Board receive written submissions this year from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations expressing concern at the extent and the scope of restrictions placed upon the freedom of expression of members of the Public Service by the Public Service Act and Regulations and the Commonwealth Crimes Act and putting forward  a  number of proposals for reform by the Public Service Board and the Government. 
if so, when were the submissions received. 
Have they yet been considered by the appropriate bodies. 
What stage has been reached in considering them. 
When will consideration of the proposals be complete and a detailed answer available. 
When the proposals have been considered and a detailed answer or report prepared, will he make it available. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the average number of service personnel in the Australian Capital Territory at any one time during the course of a year. 
How many are in the (a) Navy (b) Army and (c) Air Force. 
How many are (a) Commissioned and (b) non-commissioned. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, as a general principle, Army and Air Force personnelhave to pay 15 per cent of their salary in rent for their accommodation, whereas Commonwealth public servants pay only 10 per cent. 
If so, what are the reasons for the difference. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that the Northern Territory Police Force is short of recruits and conducts campaigns to recruit persons to join that Police Force. 
If so. was an application received recently from an ex-New South Wales constable of police who was well qualified and had no blemish whatsoever on his character, and at the time of his application was working for a security organisation. 
Was the application of the ex-New South Wales police constable refused, notwithstanding that he was qualified for the position and the work and that there were vacancies in the Northern Territory Police Force. 
ls he able  to  say whether this former police constable resigned from the New South Wales Police Force of his own free will as a matter of principle after having reported another member of the New South Wales Police Force for striking a member of the public. 
If so. can he also state whether this former constable informed the New South Wales Commissioner of Police of his reasons for his resignation. 
If this information is not known, will he ask the Commissioner of Police in the Northern Territory if he made inquiries of the New South Wales Commissioner of Police regarding the resignation of the applicant and if he was informed that the resignation arose because the constable had witnessed and made a complaint about police brutality. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that, by the end of this century, the population  of  Canberra is expected to approximate I million people, the population of Sydney is expected  to  approximate S million and the population of the greater Wollongong area ' is expected to approximate another million or so people. 
If so, is there a great need to preserve all existing natural southern coastline and surrounds as national parks. 
Is he able to say whether the only relatively unspoiled piece of natural coastline of any size between Sydney and Eden is the area originally planned as the Murramurrang State Park. 
If so, will he take all steps that are open to him to enter into negotiations with the appropriate Ministers and officers of the New South Wales Government to ensure that no further development takes place in the Murramurrang area so that its original boundaries as planned by the New South Wales State Parks and Wildlife Service are preserved and so that it can be left as a national park for use by the citizens of Australia and particularly those who will inhabit the Australian Capital Territory and this part of Australia. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the claim of  Mr Mick  Rangiari, a Gurindji tribesman, made at a public meeting sponsored by Abschol on Friday, 25th September, that the land had been taken from the Gurindji's without asking. 
If so, will he make inquiries and provide information on the circumstances in which the 500 square miles demanded by the Gurindji's as a cattle station became the property of the company known as 'Vesteys'. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What factors are taken into account in determining the percentage of the unimproved value of a particular parcel of land which is taken as being the appropriate sum for general rates on that land. 
Are these rates intended to reimburse the Government for the cost of providing services for that land; if so, how is the cost of those services arrived at. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What are all the facts and circumstances which the Commissioner for Police in the Australian Capital Territory takes into account when he decides not to surrender or destroy fingerprints or photographs that have been taken of an accused person when that person has requested that they be surrendered or destroyed. 
Will he provide a complete description of all the principles that the Commissioner acts upon when deciding whether or not to destroy fingerprints or photographs when he is requested to do so. 
Does the Commissioner, amongst the other facts and circumstances that he considers, take into account the fact that a person may have been convicted of ordinary traffic offences such as negligent driving and speeding. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Will  he  give details of the representations referred to in part (2) of the answer to question No. 1923 (Hansard, 21st October 1970, pages 2615-6). 
What are the details of the reasons why concern was felt that the planning and development advantages of the Canberra leasehold system could be compromised. 
Will he make the representations available. 
Will he make the 'study' referred to in part (3) of the answer available. 
What were the views that were expressed by the National Capital Development Commission that were taken into account. 
If these views were in written form, will he make them available. 
Will he give details of the system whereby the lump sum referred to in part (6) was determined. 
What is the purpose of requiring such a lump sum to be paid to the Commonwealth. 
Will he make available the documents by which the Chamber of Commerce and the Advisory Council expressed concern about the present system referred to in parts (11) and (12) of the answer. 
What are the details of the inequities that the Government had in mind and which are referred to in parts (11) and (12) of the answer to the question. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What were the facts, figures and circumstances used in arriving at the pre-determined relativity factor referred to in part (1) of the answer to my question No. 1629 (Hansard, 21st October 1970, pages 2613-4) relating to third parly insurance on motor cycles. 
What were the facts, figures and circumstances used to arrive at the figure of (a) $3.75 used for administrative expenses, (b) 24 per cent used for profit and (c)  2  per cent used for contingencies. 
What are the details of the investigations referred to by the Third Party lnsurance Premiums Advisory Committee in its report of November 1968. 
Will he make available the annual statistical returns referred to in part (4) of his answer to question No. 1629. 
Will he supply the information given by the NRMA Insurance Limited relating to their overall third party insurance experience in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If any of the information is too extensive for inclusion in an answer will he make the documents or information available for inspection in the Parliamentary Library. 
asked (he Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Will he list the purposes, in full and in detail, for which the police photographs of the last Moratorium demonstration in Canberra were taken. 
Are there any circumstances under which he is prepared to give an assurance that the police photographs taken at the last Moratorium demonstration in Canberra will be destroyed. (Hansard, 21st October 1970, page 2611). 
Are the police photographs taken at demonstrations indexed in the police records; if so, will he describe the method of indexing used. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many third party claims for damages arising out of the use of a motor car were made in the Australian Capital Territory during each of the years 1965 to 1969. 
What was the (a) amount recovered in each claim, (b) amount of legal costs incurred in each claim that had to be paid by the defendant's insurer and (c) total amount that had to be paid by the defendant's insurer. 
How marry motor vehicles, other than motor cycles with a capacity exceeding 250cc, were registered in the Australian Capital Territory in each of the years 1965 to 1969. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How did the authorised insurers arrive at the estimate of future liability referred to in part (3) of the answer to my question No. 1980 (Hansard, 27th October 1970, page 2825). 
Will he confirm that the estimate made for liability to be incurred in (a) 1968 was $1,000 and (b) 1969 was $6,500. 
Is the difference between the (a) payment of $44 and the estimate of $1,000 for 1968 and (b) payment of $178 and the estimate of $6,500 for 1969 ploughed back into profits or set aside, as a credit for future third party premiums. 
What are the reasons for the difference between the payments and estimates in each case. 
What payments have been made to date against the estimate of $6,500 for claims notified and outstanding at the end of 1969. 
What facts, figures, circumstances or experience did the authorised insurers make available to the Third Party Insurance Premiums Advisory Committee in support of their estimates for future liabilities for each of the years 1965 to 1969. 
How many motor cycles with a capacity in excess of 250cc were registered in the Australian Capital Territory in each of the years 1965 to 1969. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many scholarships have been awarded to (a) government and (b) private schools in the Australian Capital Territory each year since the introduction of secondary school scholarships. 
What sums in fees covered by the scholarships have been paid to each of these schools in each of those years. 
asked the Minister for Edu  cation  and Science, upon notice: 
Does his announcement that the Commonwealth intends to set up a teaching service for the Northern Territory mean that there will also be an Education Department along the lines of a State Education Department for the Northern Territory. (2)If so, will this be a branch of the Department of Education and Science. 
Did his predecessor state that a separate education authority for the Australian Capital Territory is inevitable; if so, is it intended that his Department will also administer this authority. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) aggregate value in each group  of  Canberra Scholarships for undergraduate education awarded each year since 1958-59 to (i) male and (ii) female pupils in (A) government and (B) non-government schools in the Australian Capital Territory and  (C)  government and (D) non-government schools outside the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil  Aviation,  upon notice: 
In view of the increasing use of Canberra Airport by jet aircraft and the consequential increase in aircraft noise, is it feasible for air traffic control officers to direct jet aircraft to make a righthand base approach to runway 35 whenever practicable, instead of a lefthand base approach. 
If such an approach is feasible, will the Minister give an appropriate instruction to the air traffic control officers. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many former teachers of the Australian Capital Territory are now employed by bis Department. 
What was (a) the date of appointment of each former teacher, ' 
the teacher grade of the appointee, 
the length of teaching experience at the time of appointment, and 
the actual salary at which the appointment was made. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many class periods in government secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory during the year 1970 were conducted (a) by teachers without appropriate qualifications in the relevant subject, (b) with classes combined, (c) by casual teachers,(d) by part-time teachers, (e) by married women teachers and (f) by full-time permanent staff, showingthe answer in a tabulated form classifying forms 1 to 6 and by each major subject inthose forms. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
How many teachers in each year since 1964-65 have, while employed in the Australian Capital Territory government schools, been awarded degrees at the Australian National University. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
Has he received from private schools in the Australian Capital Territory a submission with respect to their operation and requirements during the period 1971-75. 
If so, what are (a) their proposed (i) recurrent and (ii) capital expenditures, (b) the (i) numbers and (ii) location of proposed new schools, (c) the government loans sought and (d) the government grants sought for science laboratories. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What amounts were paid by private schools in the Australian Capital Territory for (a) general  rates,  (b)  water rates  and (c) sewerage rates each year from and including 1958-59. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) male and (b) female teachers were there in Australian Capital Territory schools in each year from 1958-59 classified under the headings of (i) government (A) primary and (B) secondary schools, (ii) private (A) primary and (B) secondary schools, (iii) grade of teachers, (iv) permanent full-time teachers, (v) temporary fulltime teachers, (vi) part-time teachers and (vii) casual teachers. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
How many days were worked by (a) male and (b) female casual teachers, or for how many day; were they paid, in government (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory in each year from 1958-59. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) male and (b) female teachers of each grade in government (i) primary and (ii) sec ondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory in each of the years since 1958-59 had continuous teaching experience of (A) less than one year, (B) one to two years, (C) two to three years, (D) three to four years, (E) four to five years and (F) over five years. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) male and (b) female teachers of each grade in government (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools in the Australian Capital Ter ritory had (A) a major degree (showing the number holding each particular degree), (B) other professional qualifications and (C) pre-service teacher training in each of the years from 1958-59. 
asked the  Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) male and (b) female teachers of each grade resigned while employed in government (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory in each year since  1958-59.  
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the average age at which headmasters were appointed to their positions in (a) primary and (b) secondary government schools in the Australian Capital Territory in each year from  1958-59. 
How many headmasters in these schools retired from the service during each of the same years. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the average size of classes 1 to 6 in government primary schools in the Australian Capital Territory based on school census dates or a specified standardised alternative date, in each year since 1962. 
What was the average size of classes in (a) English, (b) Science, (c) History, (d) Mathematics, 
French and (f) German for each form in government secondary schools in the Territory for the same years. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
What total subsidies on a dollar-for-dollar basis have been paid to government (a) primary and (b) secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory each year since 1958-59. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What fees have been received by and what contributions have been made by Parents and Citizens' Assocations to (a) government (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools and (b) non-government (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory each year since 1958-59. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the total number of (a) male and (b) female persons (excluding ancillary staff) employed in the Australian Capital Territory government (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools for any period of time during 1970. 
What was the average number of teachers instructing classes throughout the year in (a) each form and (b) each major class subject in Australian Capital Territory government schools during 1970. 
What type of ancillary staff and number of (a) male and (b) female ancillary staff was employed in (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory in each year since 1958-59. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many positions of (a) headmaster, (b) deputy and (c) subject master in the Australian Capital Territory government schools were in each year since 1964-65 filled by promotion of a teacher then currently employed in those schools. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Did the Nationwide Survey of Educational Needs specify projected expenditures for government schools for the period 1971-75. 
If so, what are the projections of (a) recurrent and (b) capital expenditures for Australian Capital Territory government schools for (i) each year of the quinquennium and (ii) the whole period. 
In formulating these projections what were (a) the assumed rates of increase of (i) primary and (ii) secondary school populations, (b) the assumed number of (i) primary and (ii) secondary teachers in each year, (c) the assumed (i) primary and (ii) secondary pupil/teacher ratios for each year, (d) the assumed rate of increase of teachers' salaries, (e) the number of new (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools proposed, (f) the size in terms of planned enrolment of each (i) primary and (ii) secondary school proposed, (g) the proposed location of new schools and (h) the estimated capital costs of the proposed new schools. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What have been the recurrent expenditures on government (a) primary and (b) secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory in each of the years from 1958-59 for (i) non-salary allowances paid on account of teachers, (ii) costs of transfer of teachers moving from New South Wales to the Territory, (iii) school supplies, (iv) repayments to New South Wales, (A) including and (B) excluding teachers' salaries and allowances, (v) heat, light and power, (vi) telephones, (vii) water and sewerage services (viii) school cleaning services, (ix) ground maintenance, (x) buildings maintenance, (xi) caretaker or janitor services, (xii) milk for school children and (xiii) school transport. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has he any information of the number of television actors, writers and producers who are at present out of work in Australia. 
Has his attention been drawn to the concern expressed by members of Actors Equity and the Writers and Producers Guild about the number of overseas television programmes being shown on commercial television in Australia to the detriment of the Australian television industry; if so, does he share the concern of these bodies on this matter. 
Has he any information as to the number of people who were once employed in public affairs programmes on commercial television stations in Australia who are no longer so employed, and who have had to leave Australia to find employment in overseas countries; if so, what are the relative figures. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) male and (b) female public servants arc (i) class 2/3 clerks and (ii) class 4 clerks onthe current staff of the' branch of his Department which is concerned with education in the Commonwealth Territories. 
What arethe total salaries paid to each of these groups of officers. 
How many employees are in the branch and what is the total of salary payments for the branch. 
What is the total annual cost of operating the branch. 
How many officers of this branch (a) have university degrees, (b) have other professional qualifications, (c) arc without professional qualifications (other than typists), (d) have former teaching experience and (e) have formal qualifications in education apart from simply teaching experience. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
What was the total number of vacancies which occurred in the teaching service of (a) primary and (b) secondary government schools in the Australian Capital Territory in each year since 1964-65. 
What was the total number of appointments 
of trained teachers from New South Wales, 
of trained teachers from other States, 
from outside the service and 
by transfer of staff between schools within the Australian Capital Territory, made to the teaching service of these schools in each of the same years. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
What has been the capital expenditure on science blocks or laboratories for (a) government and (b) private schools in the Australian Capital Territory in each year from and including 1958-59. 
What Government grants or subsidies for (a) science blocks or laboratories (b) library purchases and (c) equipment purchases have been paid to private schools in the Territory each year from 1958-59. 
What grants or subsidies for (a) library purchases and (b) equipment purchases have been paid to government schools in the Territory for the same years. 
asked the Minister  for  Education and Science, upon notice: 
What is the value of (a) government and (b) private school sites in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) male and (b) female teachers of each grade in government (i) primary and (ii) sec- ondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory, each year since 1964-65, continued to serve the school from the time of appointment (A) for the entire school year, (B) for more than 2 but less than 3 terms, (C) for more than one but less than 2 terms and (D) for not more than one term. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What were the costs of (a) capital expenditure on school buildings, (b) furniture and fittings, (c) site development, (d) design and planning and (e) installations of (!) heat, light and power, (ii) telephones and (iii) water and sewerage for (A) government (i) primary and (ii) secondary and (B) non-government (i) primary and (ii) secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory for each of the years from 1958-59 to 1969-70. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is he aware that large numbers of people are being dismissed and laid off in Canberra as a result of the Government's decision to limit and restrict public spending in Canberra? Is he aware that in one industry alone building contractors have laid off more than 100 men and that many of these men are breadwinners and that their families are without income or support? Is he also aware that many contractors are now without work and that this is causing financial hardship because they are unable to meet financial commitments on their equipment? Is he aware that the retrenchments in the Public Service have caused many young people to be laid off and have their permanency examinations postponed indefinitely and their future careers prejudiced? Did he intend these things to happen and will he tell the people of Canberra who are affected how long they are likely to be out of work and so threatened? 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the widespread concern amongst medical practitioners in Canberra about their difficulty in having their patients admitted to the Canberra Community Hospital at this lime, and their greater concern that (he situation will worsen between  now and  the time of completion of the Woden, Valley Hospital. 
Are records kept of (a) requests for patients to be admitted to the hospital and (b) applications which have been refused or deferred. 
If so, what is the nature of these records. 
Can he give the number of applications for admission to the Canberra Community Hospital during the last 12 months which have been refused or deferred or upon which admission has been delayed for more than 2 weeks after the requested date of admission. 
How many requests for admission have been refused where the medical practitioner has sought immediate admission. 
 In commenting on the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Bill the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  said that the previous system for law reform in the Australian Capital Territory had to all accounts worked well. To any lawyer who practises in the Australian Capital Territory and has practised in the Territory and to any person learned in the law in the Territory that assertion is not correct. The story of law reform in recent years begins in about  1964  when Professor Richardson, the then Dean of the Law School at the School of General Studies in the Australian National University, saw fit, and was perhaps driven, to write a series of articles on the urgent need for law reform in the ACT. He highlighted and spelt out this need in great detail and his articles attracted a great deal of attention. It would be fair to say that  1964  was the commencement of the attack on the Government's neglect of the problem of law reform in the ACT. Amongst the proposals put forward by Professor Richardson back in  1964  was a strong demand for an independent law reform body. He criticised the practice that then existed of having departmental officers from the Attorney-General's Department, the Department of Health, the Department of Interior and other departments trying to concern themselves with law reform. He drew attention to the chaos - 1 think he used that word - that existed in the system at that time. In about 1965 the story was taken up with a strong demand by the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council to set up an independent law reform body. That was 6 years ago. The 'Canberra Times' took up the fight and ran editorial after editorial at that time drawing attention to the chaos - I think the word used by the 'Canberra Times' was 'fiasco' - which obtained under the system of law reform which existed or did not exist in Canberra. My predecessor, the late  Mr Jim  Fraser, campaigned strongly on this issue during the 1969 Federal election. All that his demands brought from the Government were strong denials that there was any need for an independent law reform body. I think it was in 1965 that the then Attorney-General,  Mr Snedden,  and the then Minister for the Interior,  Mr Anthony,  expressly .rejected the demand for an independent body. During the intervening time the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory had taken the matter up and had pressed it very strongly, and continued to press it. I believe that the Bar Association of the Australian Capital Territory continued to press for the setting up of such a body. A joint statement by the then Attorney-General and the then Minister for the Interior said they had considered very carefully whether the law reform proposals should include provision for the creation of a separate law reform body. They said they thought that the idea of officers within departments working exclusively on law reform side by side wilh parliamentary draftsmen, and with outside consultation, would produce the quickest and most effective results. As I said, time proved that proposition to be quite wrong. 
Taking the story further, one comes to the by-election of May 1970 when the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  announced out of the blue that it was the intention of the Government to set up an independent law reform commission, notwithstanding the fact that for about 6 years there had been a persistent demand for the setting up of such a body. This announcement followed my repeating the demands which had been put forward by  Mr Fraser  before he died. I think it is only fair to say that this announcement gave to the people of Canberra - it drew comment from the Press, the Law Society and perhaps the Bar Association of the Australian Capital 
Territory - the impression that it had all the features of an election gimmick. 
It was the attitude of the lawyers of Canberra. 1 claim to be reasonably familiar with their thinking on this subject. Be that as it may, the fact remained that when the announcement was made to set up such a commission it had to be welcomed. We had been asking for it ourselves. The only criticism that we make of the decision was that it should have been taken a long time before. If I recollect correctly, the then Attorney-General said in his statement that the  Chairman  of the Commission would be a person with the status of a Supreme Court judge. We applauded that because it would ensure that presumably there would be a man of quality in charge of the law reform commission. 
It is because there has been a longstanding demand for the setting up of such a body that I personally support this Bill. It does not really do anything for the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory - or at least very little. The Attorney-General made it perfectly clear in his second reading speech that although the  Chairman  would have the status of a Supreme Court judge he would perform very few judicial duties except perhaps in the first few months, to use his own words. Although the amendment adds to the requirement that there bc a single judge of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court the provision that there shall now be not more than two, the clear thinking and the purpose behind it is not to create a second judge in the real sense of performing judicial duties but to create the status of a judge for a person who will be essentially a  chairman  of a law reform commission. We applaud the law reform commission aspect but I am critical of the fact that what has been overlooked is the great need in Canberra for an additional full time judge. This need has existed for some time. 
To understand this need one has to consider to some extent the history of the Supreme Court of the ACT. It has had a single residential judge since about 1933. The present resident judge came here, I think, in about 1964. In 1933 the population of Canberra would have been perhaps 10,000 and today it is moving towards 150,000. One can see the extreme changes that have occurred. In the Supreme Court there is a large volume of passing-through trade. Anyone who is familiar with the Court knows that motor vehicle collisions account for much of the work performed in the Court. Canberra attracts a lot of litigation over and above the normal amount that would be associated with a population of 140,000 or 150,000. Canberra is a most sophisticated centre of commercial dealings; it has administrative law problems. It is very arguable that the intensity and volume of the work which goes through the Supreme Court, and has been going through for some time, warrants the appointment of more than one resident judge. In about 1957 the Government recognised this problem because it changed the system, although it kept the idea of a single resident judge. The Government introduced what could be called a panel of additional judges who are referred to in the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act. The Government appointed Supreme Court judges such as Justices Eggleston, Joske, Sweeney, Gibbs, Nimmo and Kerr. 
Yes. I think the total number on the panel is about 8. That system did not work badly in the sense that whereas great time lags occurred in the States the position here improved. I believe it has improved considerably in New South Wales - I am not too sure about Victoria - where many years ago you would have to wait 2 or 3 years before you could get a case listed. Notwithstanding the expense involved and the occasional thing that went wrong with the system, with good management visiting judges were able to operate the system in such a way that you could have a case called on in 2 or 3 months, which was a desirable thing. Everyone knows - it is a trite saying - that justice delayed is justice denied. Nothing is perhaps more important in the administration of justice. This is a notion that goes back to the days of Magna Carta. While it worked that way it worked well. There were some difficulties, I am told. I understand that certain Industrial Court judges, because of their own commitments, often could not come here when it was hoped that they would come. I have had experience of counsel having come from Sydney to Canberra and the visiting judge having said: T cannot possibly get this case more than part heard because I have a committment in a day or so'. Everyone went away empty handed notwithstanding the expenses that had been incurred. Witnesses had been assembled, often from out of town. These are very unfortunate happenings. Cases last longer because they cannot be resumed the next day. They are stood over for months on end. Witnesses, counsel and solicitors forget. No doubt judges forget and have to put in a lot of extra effort to work. 
With all those defects and with the extra expense, the system was made to work reasonably well. What went wrong was that a large number of the Industrial Court judges found themselves doing other chores - and quite rightly so.  Mr Justice  Gibbs is now on the High Court.  Mr Justice  Kerr is on a committee which is dealing with defence pay and conditions. I think  Mr Justice  Sweeney is on the Bankruptcy Court. I understand that  Mr Justice  Nimmo is helping out in some way in the Attorney-General's Department. Perhaps he is helping with the proposed draft criminal code for the Commonwealth Territories. I am not sure of that because it is not always easy to get information of that kind. I say that as I smile at the AttorneyGeneral. The number of judges available to hear cases here has been depleted by about half. As a result, in about October last year, it became apparent that the ideal or model system of justice that had been achieved, with all the extra expense involved, with cases being heard quickly, was beginning to crumble and fall apart at the seams. Civil cases were taken out of the list. The position now is that no civil case has been listed since, I. understand, about November last year. My inquiries reveal that there is a waiting list of a year for defended divorces to be set down and there is no certainty that the cases will be set down then. That flies right in the face of all the ideals that were enunciated in the Magna Carta. Justice delayed is justice denied. 
I understand that the resident judge has made a number of public announcements in the Press about the situation. He has said that he regrets the situation but that he has no judges. What can he do? This situation requires attention. The Bill does not attempt to remedy the situation. The Bill puts a limit on the number of judges - no more than 2 judges. We should ask ourselves: 'Why? Why not say that 3 judges should be appointed as funds become available, if funds are the main concern? Why not a Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory?' We should ask ourselves questions of this kind. If the delays continue the situation will worsen. One cannot see an end in sight. 
I understand that in about November last year the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory made another representation to the Attorney-General on this subject. It expressed concern about what was happening in the courts, about the resident judge's repeated announcement on scarcity of judges, about the taking of civil cases out of the list and about the uncertainty of when they could be put back on the list. I understand that no more are to be listed until the end of May and that the judge is giving priority to criminal cases. The Society made representations to the AttorneyGeneral. I. paraphrase those representations a little loosely. It asked for the appointment of a second resident judge. The Attorney-General in his reply, acknowledged the trouble that has arisen in the courts through the Industrial Court judges having other chores to perform. He said that he hoped that the problem would not last too long. Presumably he held out hope that something would be done to solve the problem. That was in November last year. The situation has worsened since then. 
The Bill, when it is enacted, will mean the appointment of a second judge. .1 say this with the greatest respect to the gentlemen who will be appointed, but it is not intended - as f read and heard the second reading speech of the Attorney-General - that the judge will perform judicial duties except perhaps for the first month or so. One can assume only that the situation will worsen until extra judges are appointed. The Bill does not cure the faults and defects in the system under the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act. The judge is to be appointed for another purpose altogether - for a purpose which we applaud - and that is the purpose of setting up the Law Reform Commission. It is true that the setting up of the Commission is long overdue, but we applaud its introduction now. The appointment of a second judge will do nothing to speed up the volume of work going through the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Attorney-General the following question, upon notice: 
How many relieving magistrates have sat in the Australian Capital Territory .luring the last 3 years. 
What were their (a) ages, lb; qualifications and (c) experience in each case. 
Had many of these magistrates been retired for several years because of age [rom magisterial duties in other States before coming to the A.C.T. 
In view of the separate and distinct set of laws applying in the A.C.T., is the practice of bringing retired magistrates to the Territory to perform magisterial duties satisfactory. 
Is there a shortage of permanent magistrates in the Territory; if so, will he take steps lo have more permanent magistrates appointed. 
What are the details of the system for appointing (a) magistrates and (b) judges to the courts of the A.C.T 
What are the names of the persons associated with the making of these two classes of appointments. 
1 direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister aware that the prices received for Australian coals exported to Japan are extremely low by comparison with those paid to other suppliers of coals? Is he aware, for example, that high rank low volatile coking coal from the United States is sold to the Japanese steel industry for SUS20 per ton whereas Australian high volatile coking coal is sold for about half of that price? Is he aware that the Joint Coal Board has described this difference as being greater than can be justified? Will he tell the House the reasons why we appear to be selling our coal to the Japanese steel industry at give-away prices? 
by leave - I regret having to say that the statement we have just listened to has all the earmarks of a whitewashing exercise. The flooding that occurred in Canberra on the night of 26th January was severe and it was unusual. There can be no doubt about that. But those of us who were in the city at the time were aware of heavy rain and those of us who travelled through the Woden Valley the next morning saw that it was not only the heavy rain that caused this tragedy which resulted in 7 people losing their lives by being swept away from a main expressway in perhaps the most modern city in the world; rather it was a tragedy of errors which resulted from a combination of factors such as administrative mistakes, engineering mistakes, planning mistakes, a lack of liaison between Government departments. The flooding resulted not so much from the amount of rain that fell as from the way the storm water was channelled through the flood plain. The storm water in earlier times would naturally have flowed into the Yarralumla Creek which feeds into the Molonglo River. The surface of the major road had been laid on that flood plain at the ordinary level and was not built up. Anyone who knew the area and had driven over it for any period of time since the Woden Valley was first developed in about 1964 knew - it was almost common knowledge in Canberra in 1968-69-70 - that that intersection or causeway was prone to flooding. 
All that happened on the night of 26th January was that we got heavier rain than usual, lt is impossible for anyone to say that this was such an unusual feature that it would never happen again in terms of practicalities. It is all very well for the Department of the Interior, through its spokesman, the Minister for the Interior, to make a report in reply to an attack that has been made on it. lt is all very well for the officers of the National Capital Development Commission to make a report - a reply considered in secrecy behind closed doors, lt is not possible to challenge that reply in any way, yet the officers of the Commission were under attack. Almost every newspaper - perhaps every newspaper - In the Australian Capital Territory suggested that errors had occurred somewhere. Old-timers who live in the Woden Valley have said that it was madness to put a road along that stretch of the flood plain without building it up to some level. There had been a number of occasions - indeed, the Coroner found this - when traffic had been held up because of flooding. If there is no record of this experience, the system is at fault for not having recorded the facts. There is ample evidence that such flooding had taken place in Canberra. 
If one examines what has happened since the flood occurred, one sees that a number of allegations have been made. For example, it has been said, and said several times, that that roadway was put down as a sort of temporary expedient. It has been said that it was never intended that the road should link up with the intersection in the way it does but that having used the limit of the money that had been allowed by the Treasury, when the planners and engineers sought additional finance they were refused by Treasury. It has been said that on no fewer than 4 occasions the National Capital Development Commission requested finance from Treasury to build at that intersection a proper overpass which safety demanded and required. It has been said also that the original plan for the drainage system of that area of Canberra in the Woden Valley included the provision of retarding ponds because that was a natural water catchment area but that shortage of funds ruled out the retarding ponds and a concrete channel was constructed. One allegation suggests that the pipes that were used were pipes left over from other projects. lt has been said that the National Capital Development Commission knew that the work at that intersection was temporary and expedient and that when more money was available, sooner or later, it would get around to improving the situation. However, shortage of Treasury funds has prevented such work. These allegations have been made in the Press in Canberra and have been repeated a number of times. 1 have referred to them. But the allegations have never been answered, lt is not good enough to say that the coroner did not comment on them. The coroner's terms of reference are particularly narrow. He is charged with the duty of inquiring into the cause and nature of death and although he is assisted by a lawyer that lawyer's job is directed to calling evidence into the cause and nature of death. Lawyers representing the Government, the Department of the Interior and the National Capital Development Commission were present at the coroner's inquiry. An examination of the evidence indicates that a difficulty arose because some of the lawyers representing the relatives of the deceased persons came in at a late stage of the inquiry and were not given a real opportunity to probe the situation. 
When the meteorologist who was called to give evidence at that inquiry was asked the crucial question: How often are these floods likely to occur? - not what the National Capital Development Commission said it believed might be the likelihood of their occurring - he said over and over again: 'That is not my expertise. I really would prefer not to answer.' He said that about 4 times until eventually it was pui to him that such floods might occur once in 100 years. That gentleman had made it abundantly clear by inference and expression that he did not want to answer the question because it was outside his field of expertise. It is interesting to refer to the report which the Minister for the Interior has tabled because it leaves open one of the most crucial issues related to the problem of flooding. In that report the following passage occurs: 
Data are still being collected, particularly those relating to past records of high intensity rainfall in the Canberra area. These and the characteristics of the storm are being studied in detail and will be the subject of a comprehensive paper which the Bureau of Meteorology hopes to publish in 2 or 3 months' time. 
That quotation appears in a report which has been tabled today. We do not know now, and we will not know for 2 or 3 months, what is the best evidence concerning the recurrence of storms of this intensity in Canberra. How can anyone say that such a storm will occur once in every hundred years or once in every 500 years? Meteorological experts - anonymous it is true - were being quoted in the Canberra newspapers 2 or 3 days after the tragedy as saying that there was nothing uncommon about this kind of rainfall in Canberra. They were saying that such storms can happen. One geographer was quoted as having said that it was not usual but that throughout Australia rainfalls of this intensity can occur. I think the meteorologist at the coroner's inquiry said that an efficient thunderstorm with the dew point rating of the storm of 26th January could produce 6 inches of rainfall in an hour. The storm of that night produced only  3i  inches of rainfall, and that rain fell at the other end of the Woden Valley and not at the relevant site. 
With the greatest respect to the Minister for the Interior I submit that the reports he has presented put forward the view of people who are vitally interested in and concerned with what happened. There has been no chance to check their opinions or their assessments. Even now it is being suggested that a high level crossing will be built at the intersection. When was that decision made? Was it something that the planners asked for back in 1968, as has been suggested, and were they refused permission to proceed with such work because of shortage of funds? Was a decision made? The Minister says that it was not made. But was a decision made in some departments as a result of this flood, and not before the flood? Questions like this cry out for an answer. It is horrifying to think that experts can say that the tragedy happened not because they made a mistake but because they planned the intersection in such a way that 2 or 3 feet of water could pour over it with a velocity that would swing a large bus through an angle of 90 degrees and move a Porsche motor car heaven knows how far. The water carried some bodies 2 to 3 miles and washed I or 2 bodies into trees and left them perched there. 
Many questions are not answered in the report. They are not answered in the Minister's statement. I shall end on a rather emotional note. I apologise for so doing. I shall quote from a letter which appeared in the 'Canberra Times'. It was written by the mother of one of the deceased and it appeared on 27rh March. I shall read the letter because it puts the thinking of people as succinctly as it can be put. It reads: 
No doubt others have written letters to the Editor regarding the flood disaster of January 26. Having lost a son in the raging waters, I neglected to read your paper over those sad and shock-filled few weeks following  the  tragedy: I was too numb to know or care then, having accepted the happening as an act of God. 
The first print that penetrated after the loss of a treasured son was a headline in your paper dated February 25, 'DESIGNED TO OVERFLOW. As I read, my numb acceptance gave way to an anger, an abhorrence that cannot be described. 
Yarra Glen-Melrose Drive-Yamba Drive was designed to overflow; to do what it did on the night of January 26, and not a sign, not a warning of any kind to alert people to the danger of it. 
I interpolate to point out that the Minister has made it clear that signs will not help when there is such a velocity of water. The meteorological people do not know when such floods may occur and they are still carrying out investigations. Signs will not help, nor will all the police in the world help. If a similar rainfall occurred at a peak hour 200 to 300 motor cars coud be jammed up waiting to pass through that intersection. How many people would drown in such a situation? The letter continues: 
My son was injured in an automobile accident when a baby not a year old, resulting in head injuries that rendered his left side spastic. After years of heart-breaking exercising and perseverance he had achieved so much that he was almost normal, and the future looked bright for him. His life had been a challenge; 18 years of dogged determination requiring great inner strength and will-power. 
Now he is dead, through no fault of his own, and the powers-that-be, are they to be allowed to cover their mistakes so easily, so callously? Or is there to be an open inquiry into the negligence of whoever is responsible for this thoughtless disregard for Canberra residents' safety? 
I wonder how people living in the Woden Valley feel when the sky darkens angrily: are they thinking of their children who have to travel these roads back home? Those whose houses flood, the precious contents they have worked so hard to buy in this expensive city in which we live, do they ask, is it going to happen again? 
There are many questions. Will there be any answers?  1 cannot put it any better than that. But it seems to me that we still have this decision which, it is said, was made before the flood, ft may have been, but its implementation certainly was not carried out. There are enough admissions in the Minister's statement to suggest strongly, by way of corroboration, that a lot of those allegations that have appeared in the Press of this city were correct, that the execution was delayed and the implementation of the recommendations was delayed because of a shortage of finance. If the allegations are correct, then with callous disregard and a covering up in one way or another the system allowed the road to be made and the intersection to be put there. Everyone knew that traffic was being held up there at night. The police may not have written it down all the time. Perhaps they were not told to. But it is the system that is at fault. 
If honourable members look around this city they will find similar examples of this lack of liaison. This city, which is a wonderful city in many ways, is plagued with this one difficulty; one department all too often does not know what another department is doing. If there were local government and a mistake like this happened the people of Canberra could vote the government out. The people of Canberra cannot vote out of office the Federal Government. They have no alternative. We see similar examples in other areas. There is being talk about a tower built on Black Mountain. No-one knows who is pulling the strings, whether it is the Postmaster-General's Department or the Department of the Interior. One cannot find out anything. It is the same in the education field. The Department of Education and Science and its relations with the Department of Works and the Department of the Interior are such that one cannot get to the bottom of things. No matter how many questions one asks one cannot get through. An open investigation of this tragedy is perhaps the most pointed way in which the whole matter could be demonstrated. The whole thing requires a searching and thorough investigation, not just a series of one-sided reports by departments that are vitally interested in what is thought about them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I note that these proceedings are being broadcast and I hope that the people of the Australian Capital Territory have heard the speech of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  He puts himself forward as a man who knows what is best for the people of the A.C.T. There is a certain amount of gall in this, because it seems to me - and I think it is a widely held view throughout Canberra - that the Australian Country Party seems to regard Canberra as a sort of kingdom which it inherits from time to time. How Country Party members can come in here with serious faces and say that they know what is best for the people of Canberra must defy all commonsense and reason. Let me single out one point to indicate the confusion in the Minister's line of thought. He said that the critics of the proposed ordinance want to milk the people of Canberra dry and that they want to charge people more here in Canberra. Yet the Minister cites the whole basis of the criticism as coming from the Henry George League people. 
If he had read the Henry George criticism he would know that that criticism is that the people of Australia are being milked dry and that the people of Canberra are being given a gift - an unwarranted enrichment. That is what the Henry George people say. They have been flooding the country with the suggestion that the people of Australia are being milked; not the people of the ACT. So the Minister has got his argument completely upside down. I came to Canberra at the end of 1962, and it was part of my job at the time to try to familiarise myself with the leasehold system as it worked in Canberra then. The Henry George criticism has not come into this debate except from the Minister. The honourable mem ber for Reid  (Mr Uren)  did not mention it. I rapidly learnt that the system, as it worked and as it was allowed to work before it was ruined - and it worked well - was this: Land was released on a leasehold system. A person did not pay for his lease. If one thinks back to fundamentals one realises that one does not sell leases in land. One goes to a landlord, takes it and pays a reasonable rent based upon what the landlord thinks it is worth to him - in other words, what the value of the land is to the landlord. 
The return to the landlord is a rental return, and the rates find a place in it. Anyone who has lived in Canberra for many years will say that in the old days when the system worked well, before it was ruined, it worked that way. If one goes back to the early parliamentary debates one will find that the system was intended to work that way. Two arguments principally were put forward by the founders of this Commonwealth when they talked about the leasehold system in Canberra. One was that the unearned increment would belong to the people of Australia. That is the Henry George argument. The other was that people would get land here cheaper. They would get it virtually free because they were not dealing in freehold land and would pay for it by means of paying rent over a period of time. That would enable young couples with limited resources to be in the same position as a rich man. They could come along and build with their limited resources whether or not they needed the assistance of a mortgagee. In those days they did not use- 2 or 3 mortgagees as we do now. It is not uncommon in Canberra to have third mortgages, as a result of the way this system has been ruined. 
These young people could compete with the rich man by getting the land virtually free. The only reason for the introducttion of the auction system into the ACT was to allocate preferences. For years it worked very well. If one goes back through the 1930s and 1940s right up through the 1950s one will find that- young couples with limited resources were able to get their land for $10, $50, $100 or $200. Honourable members might say that that is giving an advantage to the people of Canberra. If it means that they are getting the benefit of a better system, so be it. But they were paying, or should have been paying, the value of the land based upon a proper rental if the proper rental had been struck. What went wrong - the Minister has touched on this although he did not give the real reasons for it - was that during the 1950s, starting in about 1958, the demand exceeded the supply. There is a lot of serious allegation made in this city that it was done deliberately. Anyone who listens to the auctioneers at those auctions - presumably they act on instructions from government - knows that they do their utmost to put the prices as high as they possibly can. The last indication of this took place a little while ago when some blocks were returned because there was some filling on them. The auctioneer was exhorting the people and telling them that if this land had been at Jindabyne they would have been paying more for it. The whole attitude has been:. Get away from the leasehold system of paying for land by means of a rent without a premium and adopt the notion of a premium. 
At one time I was the tenant of a house owned by the Australian National University. The University had got this land free, as indeed everyone did in those days. That is the way the system should have worked, and that is the way it is working in the Rocks re-development in Sydney. It is intended that the developers will come in and that the shopkeepers and other people will get the land without the payment of a premium. That is the way the leasehold system is intended to work. This has been spelt out in the 'Financial Times' and the Australian Financial Review'. What went wrong in Canberra was that supply did not match demand. Whether this was brought about deliberately no-one knows, but people began to realise that land here was being sold as though it were freehold. We can find corroborative evidence for this wherever we look. In fact, the most recent example is to be found in one of the papers put out by the Department of the Interior on the renewal of leases, lt talks about the system in the context of another problem, namely, what will happen at the end  of  99 years. It states: 
Some lessees have paid virtually freehold prices in premiums offered for leases. 
The Government has rationalised the system all right. It has destroyed the old system or allowed it to be destroyed so that now we have virtually a freehold system. People now have to pay for land whereas before they did not. Government supporters contend that they have put the system along the road and have pointed out that in New South Wales a person could pay $12,000 for a very ordinary block of land at, say, Fairfield. They say: 'Good. That is what we want. Let us push it a bit further. It does not matter whether we call it a leasehold system or not. We will graft it on to what we have allowed to develop already, namely, a reserve price system.' 
An honourable member interjected earlier that no-one has ever said that there was not a lot wrong with the old system. There was a lot wrong with it. That is one of the reasons that the second matter standing in the name of the honourable member for Reid demands a full scale inquiry, leaving aside this reserve price that has been grafted on to the system in the place of ground rent. On the face of it, it seems to argue against a leasehold system, but I am happy to note that the Government does not argue against a leasehold system, and presumably no-one in this House does. Let me outline some of the problems that honourable members on this side of the House are concerned about in this whole question, lt is a civil liberties issue, if you like. It arises from the fact that Canberra is a company town and it makes no difference that it is a government town. The landlord here is the builder; the landlord here is the developer; the landlord here is the tax gatherer; the landlord here is the planner; the landlord here decides whether or not building plans are approved; the landlord is often the banker; the landlord is the valuer. He decides what value to put on the land for which he will then charge you rent. 
Problems of conflict arise, and it is these problems to which editorials in the Canberra Times' - long since gone now - once drew attention, not to the fact that ground rent should ever be abolished. I have never read any editorial in the Canberra Times' stating that ground rent should be abolished. In fact, the latest editorial on this subject in the 'Canberra Times' which appeared on 2nd April this year, sets out a determined, full scale and reasoned argument supporting two things. Without mentioning the Australian Labor Party, it stated that the ordinances should be disallowed and that the problems to which 1 have adverted - the problems of the landlord being everything else, including the valuer, the banker, the planner, the developer, the builder and approver of plans, should also be referred to a full scale top level inquiry. If there is any voice in the city that speaks for the people of Canberra - perhaps I like to think it is myself occasionally - it is the 'Canberra Times'. It speaks out and demands that these ordinances be disallowed and that there be a full scale inquiry. 
The Government in its arrogance says, through the Minister for the Interior: 'We know what is best for the people of Canberra.' It does not matter what the Canberra. Times' says. The Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council, with all its faults and weaknesses, has not said one thing or another about the abolition of ground rent, as far as I am aware; but it has demanded, and has gone on record as being very strongly in support of, a- full scale public inquiry conducted by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. Both the Advisory Council and the 'Canberra Times' demand a public inquiry. Many prominent citizens have written letters on the subject to the 'Canberra Times'. I do not know whether honourable members read the Canberra Times' in which these things are thrashed out in the correspondence pages. We have a very literate, informed community in Canberra, and the correspondence pages of the 'Canberra Times' are full of letters demanding this sort of thing. I do not suggest that they are all in favour of disallowance of the ordinances. There are letters the other way, too. I have never counted them to establish whether the majority are against disallowance or for disallowance, but these letters show what a live issue this matter is in Canberra. 
Yet this Government presumably says: We know best. We argue against disallowance'. It is wrong - in fact it is sheer hypocrisy - to say that you can find out what goes on in this city. You cannot. There is no way in the world you can find out what goes on. I will give one simple example. The Department of the Interior decided to have a seminar on land tenure problems, lt was referred to in the paper on 9th March. lt was said to be top level and confidential. The very word 'confidential' belies what the Minister said about the Government's attitude to land tenure in the Australian Capital Territory. Why should it be confidential? Why should it not be public? Why should the people not be told what is going on? What is wrong with members of Parliament who want to know the facts and who want to benefit from such a seminar also being entitled to participate? The Department of the Interior invited outside representatives, lt invited the  Chairman  of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council,  Mr Jim  Pead, and it invited  Mr Webster, President  of the Chamber of Commerce, who at that level is one of the few spokesmen in favour of these ordinances. Yet when I rang up and sent a telegram saying: 'Please may I come along?* I was told a matter of hours later that the thing had been either cancelled or deferred. 
It is all very well to say that the cancellation or deferment had nothing to do with my wanting to get into the act, but why should I not have been allowed to attend? Why should the seminar have been deferred merely because the matter was the subject of a debate that was to come before the Parliament? When I asked for copies of papers that' had been circulated I got no reply. I had to ask again in a second telegram. I asked for all the papers, that is, not only the papers distributed by the departmental officers but the critical papers that had been circulated by others who had been invited to1 attend, including a well known publicist and a well known academic. I did not get those. I had to get them by going to the authors of the papers. How can the Minister honestly say in this House: 'We do the right thing. We let the people know what is going on'. The opposite is in fact the truth. Every possible barrier is put in the way of our finding out the truth about what is going on. 
In Che limited time left to me let me summarise what is wrong with the present system. Firstly, it imposes a reserve price on leases sold at auction, which is unnecessary. Whatever the other effects, people in Canberra will be paying $3,000  -  if that is the reserve price on the land - more than they would have paid before. If the new system works perfectly, as it is intended to, it will cost the lessee the reserve price more than it would have cost under the old system if it had worked perfectly, and that is a bad thing. We have heard talk about the 20-year reappraisal. Even if this were bad. there is now talk of having a reappraisal at the end of 99 years. We can read about this in the newspapers and in the ministerial papers that are available to any honourable member prepared to go to the trouble to which I went to get them. There is talk of a 50 per cent reappraisal premium at the end of 99 years. Is that not exactly the same thing, called by a different name, as the 20-year reappraisal of ground rent? Twenty years was considered too long but now the Government is saying: 'We will up the ante at the end of every 99 years.' The reappraisal will be an unknown factor. The Government has said this as an ex post facto recognition of the argument that the unearned increment should go to the people of Australia. But it belies the Government's argument that there was something wrong with the 20- year appraisal. There was something wrong with this system, but the Government intends to make the position worse. Those are the two principal faults in the system. 
Finally I give 2 examples of what has happened since the Government introduced these ordinances. I have said that in Canberra the landlord is the valuer. There has been an enormous amount of criticism of the valuations of residential blocks here. I have in front of me a copy of a letter sent by the honourable secretary of the Ringston-Narrabundah Returned Services Club in Canberra protesting at its rates. This is a new valuation. I have the permission of the Club to use the information contained in the letter. The land in question is in an old part of Canberra that has not developed in recent years. The rates were $4,608 in 1966 and $11,900 in 1967. The new rate notice for 1971 is for an amount of $44,000. If that does not call for an inquiry I would like to know what does. 
I will give one final example to show that this introduction of a reserve price is putting land prices out of the reach of ordinary people. But the example I give is not of ordinary people. It is a reference to a radio broadcast on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's programme on 19th March. It was said that a ecumenical centre planned originally for the Woden Valley could not now go ahead because of the high price placed on the land by the 
Department of the Interior. The centre had been planned as a joint venture but the Department told the people concerned that the premium on the lease would be $280,000. Previously it had been thought to be something of the order of $30,000. The project cannot go ahead. That is a church situation and if this sort of thing is happening with churches it will happen with others. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior, .lt arises out of the statement made by the Minister in this House last week concerning the flooding that occurred at the Melrose DriveYarra Glen causeway in the Woden Valley part of Canberra City. My question also arises out of my continued demand that a proper public inquiry is needed into the administrative and engineering failures that contributed to the disaster. Has the attention of the Minister been directed to the allegations in yesterday's 'Canberra News' that an engineering reference book entitled Australian Road Practice' by H. M. Sherrard who is a former New South Wales Commissioner of Main Roads and a lecturer in regional planning at the University of Sydney, recommends standards in at least 7 areas of road practice which clearly were not met in the engineering design of the causeway where the tragedy occurred? Does the Minister accept these allegations? Can he tell us what he will do about this matter? 
 At the outset I wish to congratulate the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  on his maiden speech. It was indeed a very fine speech. I. found myself looking in his speech for what I disagreed with in order that I could comment on it to the House. I think my principal disagreement is this: The honourable member for Chisholm called it the Liberal case for a balancing of interests, but if one looks at the Bill which is now before the House one will find that one cannot draw from it that balance because it is not there. It is ail very well - everyone must applaud the sentiments that he uttered - to say that the task of the law maker is to strike a balance between the preservation of important fundamental rights and the abuse of them, but the exercising of these rights does sometimes produce conflict. An examination of this legislation will reveal that there is no provision for achieving such a balance. 
I put it to the House that it is one thing to say that it shall be an offence to assault a person, obstruct a person, insult a person or do something of that sort and create such offences in legislation but the offences must be considered in the context of real life. In relation to demonstrations it may mean taking into account the traffic situations, the question of people walking along a pedestrian way or people trying to go into a theatre when other people are trying to come out of it. It is necessary to fry to balance the competing interests. The traditional approach in the common law world has been to try to regulate our system in a certain legal way. In my opinion the present system is proving, as time goes on, to be increasingly inadequate. For example, we have not in the past used any method of saying what the people can do. We tell them what they cannot do and then in some way rely upon the residue - what is left - as being good enough for them. When it comes to a resolution of this conflict in the courts, the courts do not work in this way. 
Anyone who has had experience of the courts, particularly the courts of petty sessions, will know that what I am saying is correct. They will know that when it comes to a conflict between what you cannot do and what you can do or, shall we say, the version of a policeman of facts and the version of an individual of facts the magistrate, whether he is a good magistrate or a bad magistrate, will not draw a balance. Perhaps he cannot in our present system. Time and again people go away from a summary jurisdiction court in which they have expected this conflict to be resolved convinced that it has not been resolved. Why? Because events are coloured by experienced witnesses. Policemen, and this is a real hard fact of life, are experienced witnesses. Although I was sincere in complimenting the honourable member for Chisholm on his speech, I would suggest that his experience of what happens in the real world - his knowledge of the idealistic demonstrator - is quite removed and remote  from, bears no relationship to and cannot be solved by the legal solution he tendered when he put forward his support of this Bill. 
I come back to this question of drawing a balance. There is nowhere in this legislation an assertion of what an individual can do. It might be said that it is against our tradition and that it is a bit difficult to say what one can do, but the right to dissent and the right to influence people is a fundamental one. It is also a fundamental right to gather in assembly and it is a fundamental right to try and influence people in a political way. None of these things has been spelt out in the Bill. There are plenty of precedents for doing so in the other systems of law which drew their original inspiration from the common law system. I am thinking particularly of countries which have a Bill of Rights, such as the United States of America. It is written into the Bill of Rights in the United States of America that one can do this, that and the other and that he has rights. Indeed, Australia has gone as far as that in a statute which is probably very illiberal in many ways. I am thinking about the Commonwealth Crimes Act. I am taking section 24a as an example, but many other examples can be given of an attempt having been made to spell out what one can do. Sub-section (2.) of section 24a of the Commonwealth Crimes Act is the particular example I have in mind. It is the one which deals with seditious intent. Subsection (1.) states what one cannot do, but sub-section (2.) makes an attempt to state what one can do. It is not dressed up in terms of what is reasonable and what is not reasonable. I come back to sub-section (2.) which says: lt  shall be lawful for any person - 
lo endeavour in good faith to show that the Sovereign has been mistaken in any of his counsels; 
to point om in good faith errors or defects in the Government or Constitution of die United Kingdom or of any of the King's Dominions or of the Commonwealth as by law established, or in legislation, or in the  administration  of justice, wilh a view to the reformation of such errors or defects.: 
to excite in good faith His Majesty's subjects lo attempt to procure by lawful means the alteration of any matter in the Commonwealth as by law established; or 
to point om in good faith in order to their removal any matters which are producing or have a tendency to produce feelings of ill-will and hostility between different classes of His Majesty's' subjects. 
That is the sort of thing that is singularly lacking in this Bill. There are strange clauses in the Bill. I do not want to go into the parts of the Act in detail but I wish to draw the attention of the House to clause 14 of part 1H which deals with the provisions relating to diplomatic and consulate premises and personnel and international organisations. Clause 14 spells out the intention of this House if this Bill is enacted in relation to the clauses that follow. Clause 14 in part says: 
The provisions of this Part are intended lo assist in giving effect. . . . 
There is a recital about Australia's obligations as far as. diplomatic embassies and so on are concerned. That in itself is a strange departure from our normal legislative style and it shows that even this Government is prepared to make such a departure. I suspect it was done to influence magistrates who will have to consider what meaning is to bc given to certain words to be found in provisions like clause 18 where their meaning is very wide. It is intended to influence the magistrates. It is intended to give the words a particularly wide meaning so that the net will be wide. One asks: Why else would this wording in clause 14 be used? If it can be used for the bad reason that it might influence a magistrate to put a particular interpretation on provisions which are capable of being given a bad interpretation then it can also be used for other better reasons. Before I leave this I want to refer to a pamphlet titled 'The Right of Peaceful Assembly'. The author of this pamphlet, who would be well known to many honourable members in this House, is no less a responsible person than  Mr Justice  Hope of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. It was written when he was active on the Council for Civil Liberties in New South Wales. In this pamphlet he discusses rights and the law as they stand at present. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has described the law as it is and I agree with him. He said it is ample and sufficient and that we do not need this additional Bill.  Mr Justice  Hope describes that law and describes how traffic offences are used, and the question of rights in respect of the distribution of leaflets. Under the heading 'Distribution of Leaflets' he says: 
Undoubtedly many people will be inconvenienced by lnc exercise of the right; most drivers in Sydney will at some lime have complained bitterly about a procession which has held them up. Nevertheless a proper balance of a community's needs must involve a recognition of the right of groups of people to demonstrate, and the community's rules should be moulded accordingly. 
This is what I have in mind when I submit that one has to be able to tell people what they can do under legislation of this sort, otherwise one does not get this certainty that the honourable member for Chisholm spoke about when he told the story of the university students in Melbourne. One does not get any feeling of certainty from this Bill at all. How would a lawyer advise a client who wanted to demonstrate what he could or could not do? How could one possibly advise him? One could not. There is no certainty in this Bill at all.  Mr Justice  Hope went on to say: 
To achieve a proper balance in Australian law in relation to public assemblies, two kinds of reform are necessary. The first is a constitutional guarantee along the lines of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, or the American 
Bill of Rights. I will not pursue this course now, for it is clear that if there are ever any substantial constitutional guarantees in Australia, it will not be for quite some years, and the problem requires a much more urgent attention. The second kind of reform is a restatement of State and Territorial laws on the subject. I would suggest that this restatement should be of two kinds, the rights involved should be stated pos/lively. and not simply left as something to be inferred from a lack of restriction. The rights being so stated, the restrictions, if any, with which those rights are to be qualified, and the enforcement of those restrictions, should be carefully considered and the right should not be whittled down further than is absolutely necessary. 
This is what the Parliamentary Draftsman attempted to do in the section of the Commonwealth Crimes Act which I cited. It is not done in this Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 6 p.m., to 8 p.m.  [Quorum formed] 

 - Mr Deputy SpeakerBefore the suspension of the sitting I was pointing out how that very responsible writer on matters of this sort,  Mr Justice  Hope of the New South Wales Supreme Court, had stressed the great need to put a balancing element into legislation of this sort. I say again that is what this Bill lacks. There is nothing of that sort in it. If one analyses the things that have been said about the possible need for legislation of this sort one finds a number of different competing elements and it is probably of some value to take some remarks which F have extracted from the very excellent speech of the honourable member for Chisholm in this debate. He said that this Bill safeguards dissent. It does not. It does not safeguard dissent for the reasons I have given. This Bill simply creates some unnecessary and further criminal offences in areas where we already have them. The honourable member also used the expression an urban guerilla warfare'. Who on this earth thinks that there is anything which remotely resembles urban guerilla warfare in Australia? The honourable member also said: 'They do it to build up a revolutionary spirit'. I presume he meant demonstrators. Later on in his speech he used the word Marxist'. All 1 can suggest to the honourable member is that he has had very little experience with demonstrators and certainly the kind of demonstrators I have had experience with in the Australian Capital Territory who are by and large groups of very young idealistic people trying to use the concept of demonstration to influence people but without any violence. 
The honourable member also used the expression that 'these people have to take the consequences'. Surely that is an authoritarian approach. He said that this Bill will introduce certainty. 1 have suggested that it will not introduce certainty because of the use of vague expressions in this Bill such as 'reasonableness'. ' We must not forget. The Bill is a criminal bill. 'Unreasonable obstruction opens up all sorts of possibilities'. It is almost like having an indeterminate series of references when you come to consider them. There is no certainty. You even get the idea of vicinity written into some of these offences; that they are not to take place in a particular place but in the vicinity of a particular place. How far down George Street in Sydney does a person have to go before he runs out of Commonwealth law? How far do you have to go before you find some type of human behaviour governed by Commonwealth law? Where do you run into New South Wales law? The honourable member for Chisholm said that there is great need for authority. This surely is not, as I understand the Liberal ideal, an element in it - that there is great need for authority; that there is an emphasis on authority. Rather is the reverse the situation. 
The Leader of the Opposition referred to a report of a Conservative group of lawyers in the United Kingdom. One would have thought that this was a somewhat important relevant fact that was omitted from the second reading speech of the former Attorney-General, who referred to that group as some sort of committee or commission that might have been set up by the British Government or it may have been a joint parliamentary committee of some sort. The former Attorney-General did not tell the House that it was a Conservative committee report. That committee directed its attention to these old laws which it called obsolete. What is obsolete? The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary' states that obsolete means something that is no longer practised or used;. something that has fallen into disuse; something that is out of date. Similarly if one reads the second reading speech on the United Kingdom Criminal Law Bill of 1967, which emanated in the 
House of Lords, and which repealed these old obsolete laws and did not re-enact them, one will also read the use of the expression obsolete'. 1 can put it this way by adopting the language of the learned Lord Stonham the Joint Parliamentary Under Secretary of the State, Home Office, because he said in his second reading speech: 
In part 2 of the Bil), which abolishes certain obsolete offences which today's 'Guardian' in an excellent leading article describes as a huge pile of legislative deadwood for a parliamentary bonfire, included amongst them will be laws written in language which is poetic . . . 
One of the items in the first programme of the Law Commission- 
That is the British Criminal Law Revision Committee -  was a review of certain ancient crimes and the whole point was to get rid of this legal deadwood. 
It seems to me it is singularly apt that this Government, which calls itself a Liberal government but which is essentially the most conservative of governments, comes along and dresses up under the guise of law reform something which is not law reform; it does not repeal this deadwood. Rather it re-enacts it. Under clause 25 of the Bill it does repeal deadwood and that clause is the only tolerable provision in the Bill, but the Government then re-enacts it and dresses it up in modern garb, and gives it teeth and provides it with savage penalties by today's standards. Those penalties may not be savage by the standards of the old days - we do not execute or quarter people today - but they are savage by today's standards. The former Attorney-General is looking at me and I point out to him that I am thinking of the trespass provisions. Section 24b of the Australian Capital Territory Police Offences Act provides for a penalty of 10 or 3 months gaol for illegal trespass. Surely that is sufficient when in New South Wales they did not even have such a provision. Surely it is sufficient when the burden of proof is placed on the accused person. But the Government has increased the penalty making it $100 or 3 months gaol or both. Surely that penalty is savage for the offence of trespass which traditionally has been dealt with by civil action at the hands of the person offended. 
Part 3 of the Bill now before the House relates to protection to embassies. In the Australian Capital Territory and I am sure in the Northern Territory and in most 
States there is provision for offences of indecent language, offensive behaviour and all those other terribly vague offences including malicious damage to property. You have the provision for trespass. The policeman has everything he has ever wanted to strengthen his arm when he comes to arrest people who may be guilty of a breach of law but now the policeman is to be given more power to read the riot act or the modern equivalent of it. The Bill will not require the police sergeant to particularise his reasons for reading the riot act. The alleged offenders will have only 15 minutes in which to disperse. This Government is giving the power to disperse to anyone, be he a Nazi, idiot or lunatic. Anyone can enforce this provision of the law. It is not restricted to policemen. The word contained in this Bill is person'. Anyone can do it. 
That person is given the power to disperse in those situations where something that a group of persons might be doing is regarded as insulting. I live opposite the Yugoslav Embassy or one of its buildings. Once a year a group of well behaved people turn up there carrying a coffin with Yugoslav Democracy' on it. They are well dressed and they walk up there with women and children. They solemnly put the coffin in the drive of the embassy. This could well be regarded as insulting; it probably is insulting. This Bill will make that a criminal offence. The people go away and someone comes and removes the wooden coffin. 
If someone wants to be critical of the Soviet Union and say that what the Soviet is doing is not allowing the Jews to emigrate, or someone wants to criticise South Africa for the way it treats its black people and liken those in authority to Hitler by carrying banners to this effect, surely this is insulting. If persons are compared to Mussolini, Stalin or some other dictator it is surely an insult. Is the Government seeking to prevent these activities because it thinks that the citizens of Australia should not be permitted to express their opinions? Where breaches of the peace do occur or are likely to occur that situation is already covered. The law exists already. If there is any likelihood of a disturbance at an embassy a policeman can be stationed outside its gate, as happens now at the South African, Russian and Yugoslav embassies, and that is the end of it. If someone wants to throw a bomb he can be arrested and charged with throwing a bomb. All these extra charges or offences are not needed. The only purpose behind this Bill is an in terrorem purpose: Let us not only tell the people what they cannot do; let us also tell them what they can do. Let us tell them what they cannot do and see whether we can influence them in that way. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Drury)  adjourned. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system. 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments. 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted _ to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it: and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
Thai there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capita] Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
Thai the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1.) omit ', other than an offence against section 7 or section 16, are punishable on summary conviction', insert 'shall not be determined summarily except with the consent of the accused'. 
The purpose of the amendment will be obvious to honourable members. It is to give the accused person in a case of this sort, or a person who has charges brought against him under this proposed Act, the right, if he wants to exercise it, to a trial by jury. Offences of this type are very serious. Even the Government bases its case on that fact. It says that there is a need for the measure, but we say there is not. But the Government cannot deny that it creates a lot of laws and it creates very serious offences to go with all of them. Many of them are complicated offences. 
Honourable members should look, for example, at the offences created in clause 17 to see not only the penalties imposed but also the elements, the ingredients in it which carry social content, matters upon which a jury is better qualified to express an opinion than a magistrate. There is an element of assembly in this clause, and it takes into account whether there are sufficient numbers, whether or not the premises are protected, whether the person who is supposed to have the demonstration directed against him b a protected person, whether the policeman concerned is of the rank of sergeant, whether he has the apprehension, inhis innocence or otherwise, that thereis going to be violence or that unlawful damage will be done. Then finally and most peculiarly, clause 17 is concerned with whether an offence under section 18 or section 20 of the Bill has taken place. If one examines that clause one sees that the offence could be anything - offensive behaviour, threatening behaviour, insulting manner, obstruction or harassment or even any of the trespass-like provisions that this Bill unfortunately creates. 
Clause 20, which has to be considered with clause 17, is concerned with people who are found without lawful excuse on land. The Government is asking the court to deal with this mass of trespass situations. We have said over and over again that such things should not be regarded as crimes in this context But if the Government is going to treat them as crimes and is going to make them as complicated as they are, with all the social connotations and the need for assessment and giving of weight to evidence, surely the accused person should be given the right to say: 'I want to be tried by people who understand what the real world is all about - my peers, and the people I work with.' An accused should have the right to challenge any person because he does not like him or because he thinks that the person may dislike him. If an accused person appears before a magistrate he is stuck with him, and if the magistrate happens to be a bad magistrate he will be unable to get an adjournment of his case. This amendment seeks to give an accused person the right to choose a trial by jury if he wishes. I will not press it any further than that. 
The Opposition opposes clause 23. 
Question put: 
That the clause be agreed to. 
I refer to clause  24  which reads in part:  (1.) Where a person charged with an offence against this Act punishable on summary conviction has requested the informant to furnish to that person further particulars of the conduct the subject of the charge, the court shall not proceed with the hearing of the charge until reasonable particulars of that conduct have been furnished to the person charged, and may accordingly adjourn the proceedings from time to time. . . 
I move the following amendment, copies of which have already been circulated to honourable members: 
In sub-clause (1.) omit 'further particulars of the conduct of the subject', insert 'full particulars'. 
Honourable members should know that what clause  24  in its present form seeks to do is to regulate the position that already exists. It is not lawyers' law. It is a situation that probably now exists in the courts, although it took a long while to establish it. It took a lot of hard work and the hearing of a lot of court cases, certainly in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. One case concerned an incident that took place right outside this Parliament. That was the case of re Ball ex parte Hermes. Honourable members may recognise the name. It concerned a defendents entitlement to particulars of the charge that he has to face. All it means when we boil it down and strip the veneer away from it is that a defendant is supposed or entitled to know what the police or prosecution have said he has done. Honourable members may think that that is a simple matter and that the battle to achieve this condition should have been won hundreds of years ago. It was established after great effort only very recently, and there is still a lot of uncertainty as to the extent or the amount of the particulars to which a defendant is entitled. 
If a person were charged with an indictable offence he would get those particulars at the summary proceedings, the committal proceedings before the magistrate. This is one of the arguments, in different form, that we have been putting tonight. If the offences under this Bill were indictable, or if the accused had an option, there would not be this problem of having to tell a magistrate to give an accused particulars of which his charge is so that he knows what the police case will be. If the offence were indictable he would get the particulars at the committal hearing, at which he would hear the police evidence and accusations. He would then have an opportunity to test them without peril to himself before he is actually put on trial. That is the whole purpose of committal proceedings when we have an indictable offence. Such a hearing precedes a jury trial. It is fundamental; it is terribly important. As I have said earlier in the debate tonight, this principle is enshrined in the American constitution. It was intended that it be enshrined in our Constitution. It has been watered down following a consistent policy, particularly of this Government but also of all other governments. I do not wish to specify only this Government It has been watered down and now we are making more and more use  of  summary convictions in the guise of saying that they are cheaper. Why should justice be cheap? Because of the guise of saying that it is cheaper one cannot help suspect that it is because convictions are more easy  to  come by if a case is put before  a  magistrate. If we did away with the indictable offence and the summary proceedings - the committal proceedings, as they are called - before the magistrate we would need an alternative system whereby the accused could learn in advance with reasonable notice what it is that he has to meet. As I say, the battle has been largely fought and largely won, although there is a lot of uncertainty about it. It is a sort  of  judge-made law, if one likes to think of it that way. Clause 24 recites the position as it has now been achieved in the courts. It states: 
Where a person charged with an offence against this Act punishable on summary conviction has requested the informant to furnish to that person further particulars of the conduct the subject of the charge, the court shall not proceed . .  
The court shall not proceed until the particulars have been furnished. Our amendment is short but we believe that the principle it embodies is important. It proposes that this clause will give a direction to the magistrate not just to ask for further particulars, because there is uncertainty in that, although clause 24 (2.) states that if reasonable particulars are not given the case cannot proceed. We want the clause to be a direction to the magistrate that the accused is entitled to full particulars of the charge. Some of the charges that are summarily triable under this legislation are terribly complicated. We can count 15 or 20 elements in some of those charges - not legal elements, not legal constituent parts but factual situations. An accused person is entitled and should in all common fairness and natural justice be entitled to full particulars. It may be that the magistrate will order particulars and that they will be given, lt may be that some magistrate will say. 'Those particulars are good enough'. But what we seek is a direction to the magistrate that full particulars be supplied, because often in certain areas a magistrate is not as qualified as, say, supreme court judges or district court judges. 
We seek that the magistrate direct that the accused person be supplied with full particulars of the conduct of which he is supposed to be guilty. That is the effect of our amendment. We put it forward seriously because the Government is insisting upon so many of the offences mentioned in this Bill being tried summarily without the accused having, the benefit of committal proceedings. If the Government insists upon that, it should do the right thing by the accused person and at least yield to the extent of saying that he is entitled to full particulars. What harm can it do? A direction that full particulars must be supplied would be a good direction. It would be helpful to the accused and to the magistrate. It would not leave the matter up in the air by simply having a reference to 'further particulars'. This is like requesting in civil actions further and better particulars or additional particulars. It is not enough to put in sub-clause (2.), as perhaps the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  is trying to indicate to me. 
That relates only to a departure from the particulars. It does not really help. Why bring a man back to court time and again and put him to the expense of obtaining legal representation and getting adjournments while he has to argue whether the particulars are adequate? 
Yes, [ know. That battle has been won already in the courts. What I am asking the Government to do is to take a little step further and say that he is entitled to full particulars. Magistrates vary enormously. I have heard magistrates say. as I am sure honourable members opposite have heard them say: 'But you are here'. 
I am sorry. I thought the honourable member may have appeared at one time. How often have honourable members heard magistrates say : But you are here. You must know why you are here. What do you want the police to tell you?' This is absurd. All the Opposition asks the Government to do is to put a directive in the Bill to the effect that a person is entitled to full and complete particulars - the Opposition is not particularly worried about the word 'complete' - of the conduct that he is supposed to have committed. 
I have only a short speech to make, ft is really in the form of a question to the Attorney-General. I ask: Why was the Opposition gagged on the very important clauses of this Bill and not on the less important ones? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as  a  whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment. 
Adoption of Report 
There , are many things that one could say about this Bill. Many of them arise out of a consideration of clause 4, although this is only a definitions clause. Clause 4 does not state anything in itself; it does not prohibit anything in itself. However, it does explain some of the terms that are used in other clauses of the Bill. By way of explaining what I want to say perhaps 1 could mention some of the matters that were touched on by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in the speech which he just made because they do relate to clause 4. 
For example, the Attorney-General used the expression habeas corpus. He took some pride in this. Indeed, we are all proud that habeas corpus will not in any way be interfered with by what this Bill purports to do. I would like to give the Attorney-General one example. This is only a small example but if he looks at clause 23 of the Bill he will see a situation in which a person can be incarcerated for a not inconsiderable time. I put it to him that habeas corpus would not lie. I would like to read to the Attorney-General clause 23. It states: (1.) Offences against this Act, other than an offence against section 7 or section 16, are punishable on summary conviction. (2.) Proceedings for - 
the commitment of a person for trial on indictment for an offence against this Act; or 
the summary prosecution of an offence against this Act, shall be instituted only with the consent in writing of the Attorney-General. 
I will have a lot more to say about this when we come to clause 23. Sub-section (3.) of clause 4 states: 
Notwithstanding that a consent has not been given in relation to an offence in accordance with the last preceding sub-section - 
a person may be charged with an offence against this Act; 
And this Act is full of offences for which heavy savage penalties are provided. The clause continues: 
a warrant for the arrest of a person for such an offence may be issued; 
That means that he can be brought into custody. He can be taken to the nearest police station. The clause continues: 
a person may be arrested for such an offence; and 
The same situation applies here. The clause then states: 
a person charged with such an offence may be remanded in custody or on bail, but no further step- 
 I might just finish the point I tried to make before my time expired. It is that in his second reading speech the former Attorney-General spoke of balance of interests. Presumably the interests he had in mind were the right of free assembly, the right of someone to communicate a political point of view, a social comment, to someone else not by writing letters to the Press, not by someone perhaps standing up in this House as I stand up now, but in other ways - demonstrating, displaying placards, speaking at street corners, associating with his fellows or things of that sort. As against that, the former Attorney-General spoke of the right of citizens to go about their normal business - to drive their motor cars, to walk the streets unhindered and so forth'. There can be a conflict of this sort in our society; there is no doubt about it. But how can it be called a reconciliation of that conflict when the Bill defines one right and does not define the other? This is what the definition of 'unreasonable obstruction' has done. 
The Bill uses vague terms like 'unreasonable', which are indeterminate references. They open up all sorts of vague uncertainties which probably should not be used in the criminal law in any event. In civil law, as we know, such terms are used and have been used for hundreds of years. It has only been in recent times that we have begun to fool around and tinker with this idea of reasonableness in the criminal law. Perhaps there is a better way, and I am suggesting that there is a better way. That better way is to spell out, as other systems of law have done - not the systems that the Attorney-General mentioned but the United States system and indeed our own system - the competing interests and then to direct the court to reconcile the 2 in the sense of holding the scales evenly, and so forth. I will read out my suggestion again and perhaps the Attorney-General can follow me. In that definition we create the right by saying:  unreasonable obstruction' means an act or thing done by a person that constitutes, or contributes to an obstruction of, or interference with, the exercise or enjoyment by other persons of their lawful rights or privileges (including rights of passage along the public streets)- 
I stop there to say: Excellent. The Bill has touched on one person's rights, the right of free passage along the streets. One would hope that the clause would then go on to talk about the alternative right of communicating political ideas. I am sorry if the Attorney-General looks puzzled. If what I am suggesting is novel to him I apologise for intruding on what might be conservative thinking. But the fact is that we go on to look for the alternative and to see where in that definition is to be spelt out the right of free assembly, the right to communicate ideas, the right to try to persuade people in a peaceful way. Ali that the Bill does is to say that a person commits an offence unless what he has done is reasonable. 
Given that the Government has spelt out one right and left the other as a sort of residue, is it not only human nature for the magistrate, with the ordinary prejudices of humankind, to say: 'What is reasonable must be read in the context of the paramount right, the primary right, which is the right of free passage'. That is the one on which the Government has concentrated and the one about which Government supporters have spoken. As 1 said, it is not for us on this side of the chamber to spell out an alternative, to amend the Act and make it as we would like to make it, because that would not make it what we really want. It is beyond that stage. I have a suggestion to illustrate the point. I suggest that there be put after the words 'having regard to all the circumstances' words such as these:   . . including a proper consideration of the right and enjoyment of persons to peaceful assembly and peaceful protest and the public communication of ideas and social comment and  a  proper balancing of the interests they represent, it constitutes an unreasonable obstruction . . . 
If that is done and a magistrate is called upon later on to read a definition of chat sort he will be able to see that Parliament has directed its attention to 2 competing interests and that it has directed its attention also to the importance of the magistrate achieving a balance between those 2 competing interests. If he is to see whether an offence has been made out he has to weigh them and, in a judicial manner, give effect to them. But the Bill has not done that. It has emphasised one interest, the one that ignores civil liberty. That one has been given paramountcy and primacy. The Government then says that anything left after that, to a perhaps non-political person or a person who attaches little importance to these rights, is left over for the person who wants to persuade people that his point of view is right and who wants to exercise his full rights in a modern democracy. That is the point I make, lt is an illustration of the faults in the definitions clause, in my submission, and it  h  of course one that continues like a black thread - not a golden thread - through this entire bill. 
 The Opposition opposes clause 5. It is a little unusual to oppose a clause containing this type of definition, but we do so for a reason which must be viewed in this context: Many of the offences that are created by the Bill have as an essential element the fact that certain conduct or something of this type happens in relation to protected premises. Clause 5 dennes 'protected premises' and 'protected person'. On the face of it, it reads all right. Clause 5 commences: 
For the purposes of this Act- 
And whatever benefit comes from the first part is taken away by the second part on which 1 have put emphasis:   . . but without limiting the operation of this Act- 
an assembly is in relation to protected premises if persons in the assembly are on protected premises, or are at a place in the vicinity of protected premises by reason of the fact that that place is in the vicinity of those protected premises; and 
an assembly is in relation to a protected person if persons in the assembly are at a place by reason of the fact that a protected person is present at or in the vicinity of that place. 
I leave aside the ambiguity and the uncertainty of his clause to which I have objected already. The clause says: 'All right, an assembly is in relation to something or other, if people are there because the premises are . there'. One would think not otherwise. One would think - this was my first impression on reading it - that the bystander or the passer-by who may have been a part of the assembly but who was just walking by and was not there, because a particular embassy was there but because he was going home, would not be caught up in any offence in relation to the protected premises. That seems to make sense. 
But I refer honourable members to what is buried at the back of the Bill. Clause 5 is prominent. Perhaps it is window dressing right at the beginning of the Bill. But in clause 21 we find a provision that appears to destroy any goodness that may have been achieved, or contemplated or intended to deceive people by clause 5. The Opposition will be saying something about clause 21 (1.) later. Clause 21 (1.) must be read in association with clause 5. Clause 21 (1.) states: 
In the proceedings arising out of this Part- 
There is no limiting factor here because clause 5 refers to the whole of the Bill, and the second Part concerns offences related to embassies and buildings of that sort:   . . evidence that persons taking part in an assembly were at a place in the vicinity of pro tected premises, or were at a place at which, or in the vicinity of which, a protected person was present, is evidence that those persons were at that place by reason of the fact that it was in the vicinity of the protected premises, or by reason of the fact that the protected person was present at or in the vicinity of that place, as the case may be. 
Clause 21 (1.) completely destroys any goodness that the Bill might have sought to achieve by clause 5 because it states: 'If you are there, in effect you are deemed to have been there because the assembly was in the vicinity of protected premises'. This brings clause 5 into play. One is there in relation to protected premises. That is the effect. Some may say that is a slight exaggeration. I do not think it is. I appreciate that it can be argued both ways. One thing is abundantly clear. If a defendant or accused person wishes to show that that is not the case that person must go into the witness box, say so and be believed. This means a reversal of the burden of proof principle. The burden is on the accused. In other words, the traditional concept in criminal law of the Crown having to make out a prima facie case is destroyed and removed. We oppose clause 5 because, read in conjunction with clause 21 (1.), it is meaningless. There is nothing good in it. 
We also say that the concept of an assembly being at a place in the vicinity of protected premises is dishonest. Heaven knows how far away this is. It is indeterminate, ill-defined and unanswered notwithstanding all the speeches made on this point. If the provisions in any branch of the law should be certain, certainly any provisions introduced in relation to the criminal law, as this Bill proposes to do, should be certain. As I have said, this concept is wide and uncertain and, as I have asked, how far down Pitt Street does one need to go before one leaves the area of application of Commonwealth law and enters the area in which New South Wales law, with its different principles and different penalties, applies? Those are the principal reasons why the Opposition opposes clause 5. 
 The Opposition opposes sub-clause (1.) of clause 6 but not subclause (2.) although I propose to express some remarks critical of sub-clause (2.). I think it is as well for me to read sub-clause (1.) because it does provide for an important departure from normal standards of criminal law. It reads thus: . 
Where persons taking part in an assembly- 
And this could be as few as 3 people -  that is in a Territory or is wholly or partly on Commonwealth premises conduct themselves, i:i the Territory or on the Commonwealth premises, in a way that gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that the assembly will be carried on in a manner involving unlawful physical violence to persons or unlawful damage to property, each of those persons is guilty of an offence, punishable on  conviction  by a fine not exceeding Two hundred and fifty dollars or imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months, or both. 
The gravamen of the offence is not doing something of violence, nor is it damaging property. The essence of the offence is what somebody else thinks about the 3 people who may be assembled together. In other words, what is taken as the essential element is the state of a man's mind. It is axiomatic and fundamental when laws are made that behaviour is punished. If a man hits another person on the nose it is an offence as long as he intends doing it. However, he is not punished for what another man thinks. This is what sub clause (1.) creates: It is the apprehended violence in the mind of someone else. He may be an idiot. He may have a neurosis or a persecution complex. He is not even required to be a policeman. He may be any idiot walking along a street who says: 'I apprehend violence because I see 3 people together', or T apprehend that damage will be done to property'. 
In my experience, which I do not think is limited, I know of only one section in one criminal statute - section 547 of the New South Wales Crimes Act, if anyone wishes to look it up - where there is anything remotely resembling the crime of apprehended violence. Even there it is calculated to meet the situation where if a person is threatened by a neighbour and fears him he can go to the court and get a binding-over order. However, he has to do that and the apprehended violence must be his. That is reasonable. That section is rarely used because it is so difficult to enforce. People are not put in gaol for this offence; binding-over orders are obtained. Sub-clause (1.) of clause 6 of this Bill goes further because it says that a person can be fined $250 or imprisoned for 3 months, or both, because of what someone else thinks he may be going to do. I ask honourable members to pause and reflect on this. Because of what someone else thinks a person is going to do that person can be arrested, brought before a magistrate's court, put to expense, fined $250 and imprisoned for 3 months. I ask honourable members to reflect on the barbaric nature of such a law. The person who is arrested may not have done what another apprehended he might do. 
I point out - and this touches on what the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said - that this is not an indictable offence. It will be left to the decision of a single man - a magistrate. He may be a good magistrate; he may be a bad magistrate. But the jury system has that one great virtue. We have done away with the jury system too much in this country. We have watered it down. It has been abused perhaps, by lawyers, so it is said, and I do not seek to argue that here and now. But the jury system was an ideal. It was written into section 80 Of the Constitution. It has been watered down by a decision of the High Court which has been criticised by a number of learned authors. 
I just want to read something to honourable members. I do not want to be legalistic about this but it is from two of the greatest jurists this country has ever produced,  Sir Owen  Dixon and  Mr Justice  Evatt, as he then was. lt was a dissenting judgment in the case of the King v. Federal Court of Bankruptcy ex parte Lowenstein, dealing with trials by jury. It read: 
The trial on indictment of any offence against any law of the Commonwealth shall be jury.' 
This is a reference to the section in the Constitution. It continues: 
In this formula the difficulty lies not in the words 'any offence' but in the words 'trial on indictment.' 
This is because unfortunately the Parliamentary Draftsman put it that way and Parliament can come along now and create an offence that is not trial on indictment and in that way get it before a magistrate. That is the way we have watered down the ideal that is expressed in the American Constitution and that we, through shoddy draftsmanship - that is all it comes to - allowed to escape from us. The Americans have it firmly built into their Constitution. We allowed our Parliament to get away from it. These two learned judges went on to say:  if there be an indictment, there must be a jury; but there is nothing to compel procedure by indictment.' It is a queer intention to ascribe to a constitution; for it supposes that the concern of the framers of the provision was not to ensure that no one should be held guilty of a serious offence against the laws of the Commonwealth except by the verdict of a jury, but to prevent a procedural solecism, namely, the use of an indictment in cases where the legislature might think fit to authorise the court itself to pass upon the guilt or innocence of the prisoner. 
I ask honourable members to listen carefully to this next passage. It reads: 
There is high authority for the proposition that the Constitution is not to be mocked.' A cynic might, perhaps, suggest the possibility that section 80 was drafted in mockery; that its language was carefully chosen so that the guarantee it appeared on the surface to give should be in truth illusory. No court could countenance such a suggestion, and, if this explanation is rejected and an intention to produce some real operative effect is conceded to the section, then to say that its application can always be avoided by authorising the substitution of some other form of charge for an indictment seems but to mock at the provision. But, even if this means of avoidance be allowable, what is meant by an indictment? 
The passage then goes on to argue that an indictment does not mean what the majority of that High Court - it was 3 to 2 against, they were in the minority - said it meant. But they end up by saying: 
What then is the essence of a 'trial upon indictment' which section 80 insists shall be by jury? For ourselves- 
This is  Sir Owen  Dixon and  Mr Justice  Evatt-  we should have thought that to find an answer it was necessary to look for the substantial elements common to the recognised forms of procedure so called and going to make up the conception of prosecution upon indictment. We think that the first of them would be seen to be that some authority constituted under the law to represent the public interest for the purpose took the responsibility of the step which put the accused on his trial; 
They go on to say: 
We should not have taken the view that section 80 was intended to impose no real restriction upon the legislative power to provide what kind of tribunal shall decide the guilt or innocence on a criminal charge. 
In other words, they were critical of what this Government does time and time again and has done consistently since it came to power many, many years ago by not having jury trials and by creating more and more offences, making them summary offences and putting them into the hands of the courts of petty sessions to be tried by a single magistrate, be he a good man or a bad man but a human being just the same. There is authority of the highest kind saying it should not be done unless the offence is a serious offence because no man, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said, should be deprived of his liberty unless 12 good men and true - his peers, if you like - check every possibility, bring with them the wisdom of the streets, say yea or nay and give him the benefit of the doubt. Yet time and time again we create these summary offences. 
That is the principal reason why we oppose clause 6 (1.). It creates an offence, the essence of which is the state of another man's mind. Even in the civil law, as the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  knows, the civil courts are reluctant to give damages for nervous shock - for the state of another man's mind - and yet here he enacts a criminal statute with a penalty of $150 or 3 months or. both for what somebody else thinks is going to happen even if it does not happen. And with a savage penalty like that he does not give the accused person the safeguard of a jury trial. As far as clause 6 (2.) is concerned I will simply say that it talks of an offence without lawful excuse. No-one has told this House yet that as far as lawful excuse is concerned it is not for the Crown or the prosecution to prove the absence of lawful excuse. Honourable members might think it does. They might think the burden of proving guilt always rests on the Crown. No-one has told this House that section 21c of the Commonwealth Crimes Act puts such a burden directly and squarely on the defendant. 
The Opposition does not oppose clause 7 of the Bill although it is very critical of many parts of it. I shall illustrate our criticism. It appears at face value to be a straightforward enactment of the criminal law. The State laws in this Commonwealth are riddled with offences of this sort. The essence of the clause is that it relates to a person who 'without lawful excuse causes actual bodily harm to another person; or damage, to an extent exceeding $200, to property'. Our statute books are full of offences of this sort. They can be found in the statutes of the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and all the States. They cover situations of that sort. This clause adds the requirement that the offending person must be part of an assembly. The Opposition suggests that this adds nothing to the situation because if a person commits such an offence as an individual he commits it also if he is part of a group of 3 people while being a member of an assembly. This is a straightforward assault or damage to property situation. 
Then is added the term 'without lawful excuse'. What does 'without lawful excuse' mean in that context? If we look at the authorities - and I have about a dozen here collected from the States of Victoria, South Austraia, New South Wales and Queensland - we find a lot of uncertainty about the meaning of 'lawful excuse'. It sounds reasonable and simple but there is enormous uncertainty about its meaning. Consider people breaking into homes with private inquiry agents. Is it lawful or unlawful to go onto premises? To go into a nurse's chamber at the invitation of the nurse but not of the owner of the hospital - is that lawful reason or excuse to be there? The lawyers amongst honourable members will know what I am talking about. There is a lot of uncertainty but one thing is clear. It is a much narrower excuse, defence or exemption from the general offence that is created than, say, an exemption on the grounds of reasonable excuse. 
Let me putit this way. Suppose we create an offence or prohibition and say: You shall not do something unless X happens', if X is big the offence is small and if X is small the offence is big. The X in this context is lawful excuse. It is the exemption. It is obviously a much narrower exemption than reasonable excuse. To that extent it makes the offence bigger and more dangerous and the net is very wide. Why do we have such a wide net in this little pocket we are going to have in he area of the States and the Territories, so different from the existing territorial laws and State laws. We suggest that the reasonable excuse would be far more preferable than the lawful excuse. It is a wider exemption and it does not bring about the enactment of section 21c of the Commonwealth Crimes Act, to which I directed the attention of honourable members, which puts the burden of proving excuse fairly and squarely on the defence. It would be more consistent with enlightened legal thinking- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles): 
That the question be now put. 
I want to oppose clause 17 of the Bill. I want to say at the outset that when one sees the way in which the Government has treated this Bill here tonight it is no wonder that people demonstrate in the streets. The first thing I want to say about clause 17 is that it reproduces a piece of legislation which the British have seen fit to repeal and not replace. Here we are replacing it and putting it in modern garb. What are we telling the world? Do we think that we have a state of revolution in this country which the British do not have? Just what are we trying to do? A group of conservative lawyers - perhaps not as conservative as honourable members opposite, but still conservative lawyers - saw fit to examine these ancient laws. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question  be  now put. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system. 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments. 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should lake, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory- will in the foreseeable future be made independent  of the New South Wales enducation system: 
 That the decentralisation of education systems throughout .Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State government departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable, for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a committee of enquiry, on which are represented' the Department of. Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it. and its mode of operation and adminisstration 
And your petitioners, as In duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move that sub-section (2.) of section 3, and section 5, of the Parole of Prisoners Ordinance 1971, which is No. 3 of 1971, made under the Seat of Government Administration Act 1910-1970, be disallowed. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition pf residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
 That there is a likelihood that education in the 
Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
The the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
 Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a 
Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked. the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In view of the many warnings made by responsible conservation authorities that serious detrimental environmental consequences will follow the construction of the proposed Parkes Way extension along the Lake shore and Black Mountain area of Canberra, will he request the National Capital Development Commission to investigate the possibility of bringing forward the construction of the free-way at present being proposed for the eastern side of Canberra so as to relieve the traffic pressure on the western side of Canberra and perhaps make the Parkes Way extension unnecessary. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice 
What stage has been reached in preparation for the introduction of colour television to Australia. 
What difficulties stand in the way of the introduction of colour television now. 
Is he able to say what countries have already introduced colour television. 
When is it expected that colour television will be introduced to Australia. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble Petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully sheweth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many abortions were carried out in the Canberra Community Hospial during the year ending 30 June 1970. 
How many abortions have been carried out in the same hospital since that date. 
What reasons were given for these abortions. 
What proportion of the total number of abortions performed did each class of reasons constitute. 
Was there a significant proportionate drop in abortions during the period from 30 June 1970 to date over those for the year 1969-70; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Capital Territory been without the services of an Inspector of Weights and Measures for some time; if so, for what length of time has this situation existed. 
What steps have been taken to secure the services of an Inspector of Weights and Measures for the Territory. 
Is it a fact that the salary for this position is not sufficient to attract a suitable applicant. 
Has the Government agreed to increase the salary of the position to an appropriate level; if so, what is the proposed new rate. 
What are the ordinary duties of the (a) Superintendent and (b) Inspector of Weights and Measures. 
Is it a fact that the Superintendent has been attempting to combine his own duties with those of the vacant position of Inspector. 
If so, what duties appropriate to each position have been neglected. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to build a television and radio relay tower on Black Mountain in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, is it proposed that the tower will be approximately 640 feet high and include a restaurant with a viewing platform. ' 
Has his Department conducted surveys and prepared estimates of the number of people who will (a) be employed in the various facilities housed in the tower and (b) use each year the (i) restaurant and (ii) viewing platform. 
If so, what is the number of people in each case. 
.Will access to the tower and its facilities have to be given by enlarging and extending the existing road up Black Mountain; if so, will a four-lane road be provided. 
What approximate area will be occupied on Black Mountain by the base of the tower and its surrounds. 
Is the decision of the Government to include a restaurant and a viewing platform on the tower motivated by the possible financial return from each. 
Has his Department investigated other possible sites. 
If so, which sites were investigated and why were they rejected. 
Is it a fact that all the technical requirements for colour television and micro wave transmission can be satisfied by replacing  the  existing 2 masts on Black Mountain with a single somewhat higher mast of the same lattice-work type. 
What technical reasons exist for the construction of a solid tower on Black Mountain. 
What is the  estimated  cost of the tower. 
When is construction expected to commence. 
ls it a fact that the technical requirements for television and radio relay services can be provided by having a main transmission mast located outside Canberra, together with a number of small repeater stations within the City. 
The purpose of this Bill is well known. It seeks to amend the restrictive trade practices law of the Commonwealth so that the Government can deal with resale price maintenance. For that purpose the Government has inserted a new Part, Part VIa, into the principal Act. As has been said, the Opposition welcomes the amending Bill but it does make the strong comment that the Bill does far too little and is, oh, so late. Being new to the House I find myself in the interesting situation of being in agreement with the comments of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  I also agree with much of what was said by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I regret to say that I did not agree with so much of what was said by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  It seems to me that the comments which have been made and directed at this Bill illustrate the conflicts which arise in the mind of anyone who thinks about it. One can take this situation back to the origin of restrictive trade practices legislation and anti-monopoly and antitrust type legislation which assumed that free competition in all forms at all times was the ideal. It also seeks to express the view that what the American courts have interpreted is not necessarily the correct way and has built a concept of reasonableness into those blanket prohibitions which those early American statutes contained. The British legislation, our legislation and other Acts throughout the world pay greater regard to the public interest, to the interests of other people and to the creation of a system which is responsible to some democratically responsible body. 
Surely the thing which stands out when one thinks about restrictive trade practice legislation is that it is a set of norms, a set of laws or a set of rules which has an extensive operation throughout the community. It can affect a person's livelihood, the way he earns his living, or it can cause him to become bankrupt. It can impose sanctions upon him. Yet that system is administered by people who are not responsible to anyone. The alternative, which is certainly in accordance with my thinking, is to evolve a system which makes that privately imposed system, in the mixed economy type of situation that we have, the responsibility of democratically appointed bodies. I found it profitable and it may be of assistance to the House to trace to some extent these developing approaches. If we go to the history of this type of legislation we find that it first emerged in its modern form in Canada in about 1879. Then it was enacted , in the United States in the very famous Sherman anti-monopoly law in 1880. This was a very turbulent time. I suppose one could call it a buccaneering era in the life of North America. 
The representative figures of the age Were people with names like Carnegie and Rockefeller. It was a time of commercial aggression and industrial plunder. The founding giants of the American system of capitalism then laid the basis for this enormous accumulation of capital and the concentration of capital and the power which goes with it, which is such a characteristic of the United States today. It was that feature which forced itself upon the attention of the publicists of the time and brought the response that something had to be done. The American creed was he rugged individualist, the expanding frontier and concepts of this sort, that free enterprise at all costs in some pure form - which never really existed - had to be preserved because it was in grave danger from these barons - if one . wants to use an emotive term - who were emerging on the American scene. Legislation like the Sherman Act, the Clayton Act and the Federal Trade Commission Act was enacted because of this fear. The American statesmen at the end of the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth century felt no doubts. They were determined to perpetuate free competition. In the beginning they did not give any thought to public interest. Free competition was synonymous in their mind with the public interest In 1912 Woodrow Wilson campaigned  oa  what he called the new freedom. He. stated: 
Men in a small way of business must .be as free to succeed as men in a big way of. .business. 
These dangers of monopoly power revealed themselves to the Americans.,, as long ago as approximately 80 or 90 years. The strong comment that people can make on the competitive attitudes of America and Australia is that we did not really become aware of this problem- perhaps our community was different - until a much later/period of time. It has not, because we do not have the same high degree of concentration in our commercial and industrial, centres, small though they may be, because on my reading and my understanding of the situation, as it is now anyway,! this country has twice the degree of concentration in the commercial and industrial activity fields than the British and approximately. 3 times that degree of concentration iri the United States of America.  '.&gt;; 
It is not just a matter of reacting. There is something also in our psyche or makeup which has caused us to be more placid and to accept the situation. We did have the old Australian Industries Preservation Act but, as the lawyers know, it lay dormant for a long time after some early setbacks to it. When it was being rediscovered, there was not any opportunity to do much to it because it was repealed by the Trade Practices Act in 1968. 
Let us consider the importance that these statutes serve. What I would submit to the House is this. In the .United States these statutes certainly have not and this legislation that we have certainly will not curb the tendency or the pressures in the sort of community that we have towards ever increasing : concentration of economic power - and perhaps abuse of that power. That seems to ,be an inevitable .-system in our way of life. I believe : that . the -real benefit of such legislation in; the United States and. indeed of all such legislation has been its worth in the educative role and the casting of light into dark corners. The 
American public has been made aware of where the economic and perhaps the real power in the community lies. 
I do suggest that the real power of this legislation when it is eventually put into proper form - it is not in proper form now - will be along those lines, in order to make us understand in a sort of research sense, much as the British have done, just how this secret system that exercises this enormous power in our community does work. I suppose that the best known writer on this subject in the United States was an American senator called Estes Kefauver. He was the leader in the Senate of a number of anti-trust committees and of a small businessmen's committee. He has a philosophy which was in accord with American thinking on this subject. It goes some-, thing like this: It goes to a system that they believe will work. T will suggest in a moment that it does not. work. In one of his books, he puts it this way: 
At least up te now ... no better system has been devised to' protect the pocket than the competitive system. 
He went on to say: 
. the distinct . advantage of, the .market as an instrument of control was ' that it constituted a form of representative government, lt allowed the massive aggregate of a country's consumers to vote their preferences by extending or withholding their custom. 
Further, he stated in another place: 
. where there is a multitude - of independent producers each vying for business, there need be no cause for concern. 
Experience surely has proved this to be wrong because the market does not work in that way in a modern commercial industrial society such as the Americans have and such as we have. The market has a role of its own. It has a life of its own. It produces abuses of its own and it can be manipulated by the people who control the centres of power. This is the complaint that I make about this hidden system that is not brought to light and will not be brought to light by this legislation, even though we welcome it here. 
One of the essential features of our system is the secrecy aspect of it. But, in the United States, it has been brought to light to a large extent. What in the true position? Is it that competition should be furthered at all costs and at all times? I do not believe so because, as the honourable member for Macmillan said, therein lies chaos of a certain kind. That cannot work. There must be some degree of orderliness in it, but it must be orderliness imposed by someone who is responsible to a democratically elected institution such as the Parliament, or some board or tribunal that is itself responsible. The orderliness cannot be produced by some man - a hidden man, if honourable members like, or a faceless man - who is an essential feature of the system as it exists today. 
When the British came to grapple with the problem in 1948 a Labour Government enacted the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Inquiry and Control Act. It was quite a different approach from that adopted in the United States, and in many ways was quite different from our approach because at its beginning it was essentially a research venture. It recognised the problem and the abuse that flowed from the problem. The British said: 'We must understand it better. It is not enough just to say that it is there and we will control this, or prevent that or ban the other. We will understand it and see how it works.' The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  said that we want something for the Australian scene. I could not agree more with him, but we do not understand the Australian scene or the practice of resale price maintenance in the Australian scene sufficiently, or the practices in the United Kingdom or the United States. The British set out in their Act in 1948 to gain more understanding. They have subsequently amended the Act and added other powers. There was a blend between the two. I suggest that there was a step forward. The British now investigate the professions and all manner of restrictive trade practices, not only resale price maintenance. I think I can quote  Mr Harold  Wilson on this matter with some point. He put it this way: 
A monopoly is . neither good nor bad in itself but it does have the power to be good or bad. 
Surely the point lies therein. I believe that  Mr Wilson  has described the situation realistically. It is also a recognition of the most important feature of restrictive trade practices, namely, somehow working out a system that makes business accountable in a democratic way. Trying to find a way whereby you can put over, behind or under this secret system of restrictive trade practices a scheme whereby the agreements and the practices can be examined, understood and controlled is surely the point, in order to see that the people responsible for them are made accountable. 
As the system works at the moment it is capable of raising prices, contributing to inflation and working against the interests of consumers. We live in a period when the consumers are the majority of the people in the community. They can be treated extremely unfairly and have all sorts of hardships imposed on them. The system has to be understood, brought into line and made to ' work. Dogmatism will not help. The Americans tried dogmatism in the latter part of the nineteenth century and the early part of the twentieth century and it did not work. The public interest must be paramount. ( There can be no doubt that big business methods are very diverse and extremely flexible. They can be capable of being adapted to further the interests of big business because there is . in the problem, as can be seen when it is examined, the question of why a man is in business. Surely it is to maximise profits.. It is not good enough to say that if he furthers his own interests he serves the interests of the community as well because basically there is a conflict that must be reconciled in some way. This might be the answer to the statement by the honourable member for McMillan that this is a lawyer's statute. Generally the reconciliation of conflicts is a function in which lawyers get themselves mixed up more than others do. One starts with the proposition that any businessman is in the world from the point of view of making a profit. If he can engage in a restrictive trade practice and put more order into his business than might otherwise be there, he does it for the purpose of maximising profits and not from the point of view of providing a better service or a cheaper commodity for the ultimate consumer. 
So there is conflict and it has to be reconciled in the public way I have suggested. We do not know enough about the problem. A little research is done in the universities and occasionally there are articles in learned journals, but that is all. Almost every honourable member would agree that we will have in Australia a mixed economy of a private capital type enterprise and a government capital type enterprise with an overriding determination that they both serve the public interest' for some considerable time. If that is to be the position, there must be research. Britain has achieved it, but Australia has not. There is nothing in this particular piece of legislation to encourage it in any way. In. fact, the opposite is the case. In the reports of  Mr Bannerman,  as the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  has pointed out, there is one feature. Actually, one could refer to many features, but the most outstanding feature is that of secrecy. If one has a court case, one cannot serve a subpoena on  Mr Bannerman,  even to present a document to the court. The British considered this sort of approach and rejected it. What I suggest is that that is a feature for which .we pay too high a price. 
It may be that  Mr Bannerman  claims that he can now examine an agreement or a practice, ring up people on a club-like basis, and persuade them in some indirect way to alter it. I suggest that it probably does not work that way. He may believe that it works that way, but it cannot do so because, given the idea or theme, behind the industrialist, manufacturer or. businessman - that his point in being there is to make a profit and to make his business pay for itself - he will only dress up' the agreement in some other way. In other words, legislation of this sort does have, to have teeth in it, but before we put teeth in it, or as we put them in it, we must understand what is involved. We will never do that until we have something in the nature of a monopolies commission, as exists in the United Kingdom. 
Of course, there are constitutional problems, but in this case the reluctance of the Government to pass adequate legislation is obvious. It can be seen, for .example - I will give only one example of this reluctance, as other members have given other examples - that in 1966 the Tasmanian Government gave the Commonwealth Government full power to make laws with regard to Tasmania in this respect. That included what could be considered almost a request to enact resale price maintenance legislation with regard to Tasmania. Nothing was done until this year, and we all know the circumstances that preceded what is being done. The Australian Council of Trade Unions came into the picture with the Dunlop situation. An enormous amount of publicity was given to the fact that resale price maintenance now no longer existed. It is true that there had been rumblings from Ministers. Suddenly the Government came in and said: 'We have to do something about it.' In conclusion, I would like to refer to one statement which I think sums up the matter. I will quote a passage written in 1965 by Professor Richardson, the Dean of the Law School at the Australian National University in Canberra. In the 'Economic Record' of that year he wrote: 
Compared with the original Barwick plan, the Bill appears as a compromise yielding ground to various commercial and political interests. In particular, bilateral agreements no longer have to be registered and several types of bilateral agreement, such as an agreement between a buyer and seller fixing the resale prices of goods supplied, have been withdrawn from the proposed federal control. The list of practices bad in themselves and therefore unlawful has been reduced from 4 to 2. The penalties attaching to parties failing to register a registrable agreement are less severe than originally contemplated and the proposed register of restrictive practices will not be open to public inspection. The Government has also abandoned its projected control of mergers. These modifications will no doubt make the Bill more digestible in some business circles and sections of the political Parties of the Federal Government. 
Therein, I suggest, lies a good description of the Government's reluctance to act in this matter. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
What were the names of the Crown lessees with the twenty highest unimproved capital values of (a) commercial, (b) industrial and (c) residential land in the Australian Capital Territory on 30 December 1970. 
What land rent was payable in each case on the same date. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the claims made for the new method of purifying industrial waste water known as the Krupp-Katox process? 
If so, is he able to say. whether (a) the degree of purity of water treated by this process is higher than that in water treated by the biological methods of treating industrial waste water, (b) the new process is more efficient in its claims on space and cost, (c) the new process is quicker than the previous process, (d) there are any known disadvantages of the new process and (e) any steps are being taken to encourage or facilitate the introduction of the new process into Australian industry? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underly it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your Petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) Aboriginal and (b) other Australian children of school age live in the Jervis Bay and Wreck Bay area of the Australian Capital Territory? 
How many (a) Aboriginal and (b) other Australian children of school age living in the Jervis Bay and Wreck Bay area of the ACT attend (i) primary and (ii) secondary school? 
How many primary and secondary schools are in the area and where are they located? 
How many (a) Aboriginal and (b) other Australian children from the area are assisted to receive (i) primary, (ii) secondary, (iii) university and (iv) other education elsewhere in Australia? 
What is the (a) nature and (b) cost of this assistance in each category? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What were the numbers and percentages of (a) Aboriginal and (b) other Australian children living in the Jervis Bay and Wreck Bay area of the Australian Capital Territory who (i) were enrolled for the first year of secondary education in 1966 and (ii) were still attending secondary school in (A) 1969 and (B) 1971? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House  of  (Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 271 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 471 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies: 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Inquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra Community, be instituted to inquire into the form that an Australian Capita) Territory Education Authority should lake, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of ' the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the A.C.T. respectfully showeth: 
That the A.C.T. Pharmacy Ordinances 1931- 1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promotethe sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance . . .for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted from Sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the A.C.T. Pharmacy Ordinances. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many (a) taxis and (b) hire cars are there in the Australian Capital Territory? 
How many (a) taxi and (b) hire car third party insurance policies exist in the Australian Capital Territory? 
Are records kept by his Department of sedan type motor vehicles fitted with two-way radio in the Australian Capital Territory? 
If so, how many of these types of vehicles are so equipped? 
Is he able to say whether vehicles which are not registered as hire cars or taxis are used as hire cars or rental cars in the Australian Capital Territory 'with a consequent reduction in the amount of work available to registered taxis and hire cars? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many families in Canberra with more than four children were waiting for transfers from (a) 2-bedroom and (b) 3-bedroom government houses to larger government accommodation at 30 April 1971? 
What has been the waiting time in each case? 
What is the approximate average waiting period in these cases and is there any indication that it will be reduced? 
 I move: 
That sub-section 2 of section 3, and section 5 of the Parole of Prisoners Ordinance 1971 (No. 3 of 1971), made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1970, be disallowed. 
May I say at the outset that this law affects 150,000 people in the Australian Capital Territory. It is made not by way of a Bill which becomes an Act of Parliament to which amendments can be moved; it is made by means of delegated legislation - an Ordinance in relation to which there is no opportunity to move amendments. I make those remarks at the outset to express my feeling that this procedure is a disgrace. As I understand it, I have something like 10 minutes before the House is due to rise. This Ordinance gives power to the courts of the Australian Capital Territory to impose minimum non-parole periods in the sentences imposed on persons who have been convicted in those courts. The Australian Capital Territory courts did not have this power until the enactment of this Ordinance. The idea that judges or magistrates should be given power to sentence a person to a term of imprisonment, and then order that he be not eligible for release on parole until a minimum period of time has expired, is relatively recent. It became part of Victorian law in 1957 and part of New South Wales law in 1966. Queensland and Western Australia enacted similar legislation and the Commonwealth did so in its Commonwealth Prisoners Act of 1967. I must confess that I have doubt whether a minimum nonparole period imposed by a judge or by a magistrate is a good idea. It seems inconsistent with the idea that a person should not be kept in prison any longer than is necessary to effect his reform and also to protect the community. This has a quality of deterrence about it. But I cannot help feel that in large measure it is a power given to judges to bolster their need for believing that the sentences they impose will not be undone by subsequent decisions by psychologists, social and welfare workers, and others who are charged with the duty of observing prisoners and assessing their chances of successful reintegration into society. 
Be that as it may, the motion before this House does not seem to disallow those provisions of this Ordinance which bring the ACT into line with the situation that exists in Victoria and New South Wales. I hope that honourable members will not be misled or sidetracked by my having expressed my doubt about the provisions because, for the purpose of what I am saying here, I accept that they should be part of the law of the ACT. It is only a matter of my putting my doubt on record. The objectionable feature of this Ordinance is the machinery provision that is set up to determine whether a prisoner is released on parole. Put more plainly, it is the lack of that machinery provision that makes the Ordinance objectionable. The relevant provisions are sub-section (2.) of section 3 and section 5. 
I should not need to persuade honourable members that the preservation of the liberty of the subject is a vital brick on which our whole system of justice is built. It is so embedded in our law and culture that it would be unthinkable to detain a person in custody unnecessarily without providing proper safeguards and proper machinery to regulate his conditions of release. The giving of an unfettered discretion to the executive arm of government to determine whether he should be at liberty or not is completely opposed to all our history and to all our principles. This history is betrayed and those principles are broken by this Ordinance which does give an unfettered discretion to the executive arm of government to decide whether a person should be free or whether he should not be free. In New South Wales and Victoria, the work of making a decision of that sort as to whether or not a person should be released from custody is given to independent parole boards. They are not part of the executive; they are not part of the Public Service. The New South Wales Parole Board is under the chairmanship of a Supreme Court judge, and there must be at least one woman on the Board. The present New South Wales Board is made up of  Mr Justice  Allen, a judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales; Judge Levine of the District Court; Miss Margaret Telfer, Registrar of the University of Sydney;  Mr Ramsay,  a retired former Under-Secretary of Justice;  Mr J.  A. Maroney, Comptroller-General of Prisons, and  Mr K.  Marsen, Personnel Manager of Leyland Motors, who is also on the Executive of the Prisoners' Aid Society. Honourable members can appreciate the quality of that Board. In Victoria there are 2 adult parole boards - one for males and one for females. The male parole board consists of a  chairman  who must also be a Supreme Court judge. Its members consist of the Director-General of Social Welfare and 3 other members who at present are the  Chairman  of the Prisoners' Aid Society, an ex-Chief Parole Officer, and a medical practitioner. The female parole board has as its  chairman  the permanent member of the male board and three other women who at present are the Convener of the Female Prisoners' Council, an ex-governor of a female prison and a children's court magistrate. There is also a special Youth Parole Board. 
In all those cases the parole boards receive evidence from all interested parties. The prisoner is encouraged to make a statement. The parole boards receive opinions from psychiatrists, psychologists, prison officials and welfare people, and with the growing experience and expertise that they, acquire, they make a decision as to, whether a prisoner should be released by being parolled. After a decision has been made, a prisoner can have no valid reason in those circumstances to suppose that he has not had a fair go or that he has not had fair treatment because justice has manifestly been seen to be done. If release on parole is denied or deferred, the prisoner can ask for the decision to be reconsidered, and he knows it will be reconsidered. Honourable members can see the lengths to which the New South Wales and Victorian legislatures have gone to establish independent, top quality parole boards. I am not suggesting that they have gone too far by any means because I believe that there should be a right for the prisoner to be present and to argue his right to release if necessary. They have not gone that far. I can think of other improvements also. 
I ask honourable members to compare the Victorian and New South Wales systems with the system proposed for the Australian Capital Territory, or the lack of system. If section 3 sub-sections (2) and (5) remain part of the Ordinance, the decision on whether a person is to be released or not released will be given to the GovernorGeneral; that is, to the Executive arm of our Government. I was taught that it was always undesirable to confer on the Executive powers that are by their nature judicial, because when that is done safeguards associated with the exercise of judicial power are invariably left out or written down. Section 3 Sub-section (2) of the Ordinance states that the reference to the Governor-General shall be read as a reference to the Governor-General acting on the advice of the Attorney-General. On the face of it, that would suggest that the decision to release or not to release a prisoner could be a political decision, which would, of course, be completely wrong. But we all know that in reality it will mean that the decision to release or not to release will be the decision of an anonymous and unknown public servant, sitting in a back room in the Attorney-General's Department. He may or may not be qualified; he may or may not be wise; he may or may not be prejudiced; and he may or may not be competent. 
Such a system is completely wrong, and the ideals behind our much vaunted concept of the rule of law will be severely dented if a decision making power that so vitally affects the liberty of the subject is created in this way. It does not detract from this criticism one whit to say that the Attorney-General's Department may have each case processed first by, say, the New South Wales Parole Board because our prisoners go to New South Wales. The decision to adopt, reject or vary any recommendation that might be made by the New South Wales Parole Board would still be an administrative decision made 'by an anonymous public servant here in Canberra. I hasten to add that I believe that the officers of the Attorney-General's Department are all hard working and dedicated men. But, having said that, I must also say that that is not the question. Justice must be done and must be seen to be done. 
Although these officers are unknown, they are associated in the minds of prisoners with the prosecution that put them in gaol. No prisoner who is refused parole will believe that justice has been done to him or that he has had a fair go when he knows that the decision on whether he would be released was in the hands of people whom he does not know, who probably are unknowable to him and whose decisions he cannot influence, but who in his mind are associated with Crown prosecutors and police prosecutors who helped to put him in gaol. 
I ask the House to consider the powers given by section  5  of the Ordinance. It gives an absolute and unfettered discretion to the Governor-General. As I have said, it means that in reality the departmental officer in the Attorney-General's Department who is charged with doing this work will make the decision. I should add at this point that in reply to a question I put not long ago to the Attorney-General I was given to understand that there is one full time departmental officer doing the job at present, assisted part time by 2 senior officers. Those officers will have the power, in an unfettered way, to order the release or otherwise of a prisoner. There is nothing in the Ordinance to direct a departmental officer or officers to take account of medical reports, psychological reports or reports of social or welfare officers, or to take account of the opportunities or lack of opportunities for gainful employment outside gaol. 
The discretion will be the officers' discretion and it is not controlled in any way. There can be no judicial control over it. To cite some extreme examples, the discretion could be exercised one way or another because a particular officer believed that one type of crime was more serious than another type of crime, irrespective of the views of this Parliament. For example, an officer might take the view that people guilty of culpable driving of a motor vehicle are much more guilty in a moral sense than people who break into stores, or something of that sort, irrespective of what Parliament said. He might be influenced by cynicism about the rehabilitation of prisoners or because he places excessive and unreasonable importance on the need to protect society. 
The exercise of an officer's discretion could even be influenced one way or another because he was anti-Catholic, anti-Protestant or anti-Semetic. If it happened, there would be no way of knowing. As I have said, it could not be found out who the officer was, except informally. If some injustice occurred, there would be no way for anyone outside the Public Service to find out who had made the decision. No member of Parliament could rise to his feet in this House and describe, as I have described, the people who have this power and who constitute the parole boards of New South Wales and Victoria and have the direct responsibility for the decisions they made. 
If honourable members look at the complete Ordinance, there is worse to come. Sub-section  (5)  and  (6)  of section  5  enable this officer to include conditions in any order that he makes that a person be released. He could, for example, order that the prisoner not associate with any other person, even a member of that person's family. He could order him to live in one area and not in another area. He could order that he take some form of employment, and not some other form of employment. He could order that he be in employment and stay in employment irrespective of shortages of employment opportunities or the attitude of, say, an employer. The officer could order that the released prisoner drink or not drink alcohol, enter a hotel or not enter a hotel. He could order if he wanted to that the prisoner, now released, wear 'his hair short or that he wear it long. The section goes as far as that. It would all depend on what the particular officer thought was important or unimportant, relevant or irrelevant and, as I have said, there would be no way of challenging the decision or appealing against it in any way. 
The same officer could order that a person be released and then could change his mind at any time, and need not give any reason for having so changed his mind. Such an incident could occur if the officer exercised the power to revoke the order. The New South Wales Parole Board could not come into consideration at all in that regard because it would be a departmental decision. The officer could vary the order or revoke it and cause the person concerned to be put back into prison for what would then become, in effect, an indefinite period. 
There is nothing in the Ordinance to say that the officer, the Governor-General or the Attorney-General has to have a reason. It could be at the exercise of a whim. One would hope that it would not be, of course. An interesting feature of the Ordinance is this: The comparison between the role given to the departmental officer and the Attorney-General and to the role of the courts of petty sessions. Whereas the officer who performs this work will have no checks or procedures imposed upon him at all, except perhaps checks of a superior officer and ultimately the AttorneyGeneral, there are checks of a proper kind contained in sections such as section 10 which applies, in other circumstances, where a court of petty sessions has cancelled a parole order. In such circumstances, an appeal to the Supreme Court is provided for. At least a magistrate's decision to cancel parole takes place in open court and the magistrate has to give reasons. Those reasons have to be supported by sworn evidence. The officer in the Attorney-General's Department is not required to work in this way or formulate his reasons in this way at all. Yet, there is provision for an appeal from the decision of the magistrate and no provision for appeal from the decision of the departmental officer. The opportunities for abuse and, more importantly, a feeling of injustice on the part of the prisoner, are obvious. The fact that there is ministerial responsibility involved does not alter a thing. A biased, spiteful prison warder could submit an unfair report on a prisoner to the departmental officer. The prisoner would not know what was in the report and would have no way of knowing. He would have no way of challenging it, and yet the departmental officer might not think it was biased and spiteful - he might not even know it was - and might act upon it. There would be no way of testing the report. It may be said that I am making too much of the need to impose judicial- like standards into this subject of release on parole. I do not believe that I am, because even if it were proper to describe - I emphasise the word 'describe' - a decision to release a person on parole as an executive decision, the proper standards should still have to be applied. There is some room for confusion when one comes to consider this question of terminology because some of the earlier literature on parole boards described them as exercising an executive function rather than a judicial function. But this was before parole boards of the present kind were created and before the present system of giving power to a judge to impose minimum non-parole periods was created. For example, under the old system in New South Wales, a parole board could consider only cases referred to it by the Minister of Justice. The board made recommendations to the Minister. In those days, there were no minimum non-parole periods imposed by judges. The point I wish to make, that the judicial standards should be aimed at, has been made abundantly clear in the speech of the New South Wales Minister of Justice,  Mr Maddison,  during the second reading of the New South Wales legislation introduced in 1966.  Mr Maddison  described the changes between the old system and the new system which he was then introducing. He said: 
This Bill, therefore, changes in respect of determinate sentences, the whole concept of parole in New South Wales. It also alters the powers and constitution of the Board. Because the Board is considering only those cases specified by the Court and at times designated by the Court, it seemed proper to consider these to be parts of the judicial process, and therefore the Board is empowered to authorise release and impose conditions of release. 
It was decided to put this responsibility on the Board rather than leave it to the Attorney-General as had previously been the case and as this Ordinance seeks to do.  Mr Maddison  continued: 
It is also vested with the converse power of revoking an order of parole in the event of a breach of the conditions imposed. 
The draftsmen of our Australian Capital Territory Ordinance have adopted part of the New South Wales reform but grafted on to it the very worst features of the old system which was superseded by that New South Wales reform.  Mr Maddison  went on to say: 
Because the powers of the Board have been increased, it has been thought proper to provide that the  Chairman  of the Board be a judge of the Supreme Court. 
The powers for granting increased parole in the A.C.T. have been more than increased; they have been created from nothing, but they have not been given to a board under the chairmanship of a judge. The Government has chosen instead to give the job to an unknown departmental officer. It is a cheap form of administrative expediency and there should be no room for such administrative expediency where the question of a person's liberty is involved. There are 37 A.C.T. prisoners at present in New South Wales gaols. Only 2 are eligible for parole at this time but that is because the Ordinance was introduced only about 5 months ago and our Supreme Court is understaffed and has been on vacation for some of that time. The numbers will increase. Let me quote the second United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders which met in London in 1960. One of its resolutions, section 6, recommendation 4, is in these terms: 
It is desirable to apply the principle of release before the expiration of the sentence subject to conditions, to the widest possible extent, as a practical solution of both the social and the administrative problems created by imprisonment. The authority releasing the prisoner should be specialised and decisions about the prisoner should be taken, preferably after a personal interview with him, but in any case, on the basis of exhaustive information about him. 
If this part of the Ordinance remains law, that standard will certainly not be met and, more importantly, it will certainly not be seen to be met. 
I have heard it said by a departmental legal officer in Canberra that it is not necessary  to  impose judicial standards on the question of whether or not a prisoner should be released because even after he is released, he is still under a sentence, imposed by a judge. This view of things would go on to say that the judge's task is finished at the sentence stage and that all that happens afterwards are matters for administrative or executive decision. This is a dangerous and deceptive answer because it hides the reality of the situation. The fact is that a decision of whether to parole or not to parole is a decision whether to give freedom or not to give freedom. It is that decision that affects a person's liberty. The fact that he remains under sentence only affects his departmental status and is a matter for administrative or departmental record. There is another answer to this very sterile and unrealistic point of view. Judges should play a part in any decision whether to release on parole or not to release on parole. Their work should not finish at the time of recording sentence. They should partake in the additional experience of being allowed to follow through on the cases that have come before their courts. I am talking now of ACT judges and magistrates. Only in this way will judges lose some of the narrow legalism of approach with which they are sometimes associated. 
 in reply -  Mr Deputy Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr N.  H. Bowen) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is lt a fact that in the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court there were insufficient judges to hear cases which had been fixed for hearing between the end of October and the end of December last year? 
Did the scarcity of judges cause the resident judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian 
Capital Territory to publish a notice in the Canberra press advising that a number of cases which had been fixed for hearing would be taken out of the list with no indication as to when the cases would be heard? 
Did the resident judge indicate separately to legal practitioners that other cases could not be given a hearing date until the position improves? 
Are any steps being taken to secure the services of additional judges for the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory? 
Are any steps being taken to appoint a second residential judge for the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is only one officer in his Department engaged on work relating to parole of prisoners? 
If not, how many officers are engaged on this work? 
How long has the present situation existed? 
Is it intended to increase the numbers of these officers? 
How many prisoners are incarcerated in New South Wales as a result of a sentence of imprisonment by Australian Capital Territory courts? 
How many of these prisoners are incarcerated for terms of imprisonment that would entitle them to be considered for release on parole? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How - many Canberra residents had not received their taxation assessments for the 1969-70 taxation year by 1st May 1971. 
Why has there been a delay in processing income tax assessments for these residents of the Australian Capital Territory? 
When is it expected that all A.C.T. assessments for the 1969-70 taxation year will have been processed and all refund payments made? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare- chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray- 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that honourable members urge upon the 
Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth 
That the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances 1931-1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception', be deleted from Sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 I rise to say a few words in continuation of what I tried to say last Friday when this House was debating a motion to disallow certain provisions of the Parole of Prisoners Ordinance 1971 of the Australian Capital Territory. I was prevented from saying the few words I wanted to say in reply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who in this House represents the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  because the gag was moved. The reason the gag was moved - I do not think there is any doubt about it - was because it was a little after 4 o'clock in the afternoon. When the matter came on for debate at about a quarter to four in the afternoon the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  put to us that the debate was a matter of urgency. It was not a matter of urgency. 
The time limit for the Government to bring on the matter for debate extended until Thursday of this week. There were at least the sitting days of Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday left before the 15 days within which the Government had to bring on the matter for debate expired. Yet the matter was forced on. I use that term because it is the only descriptive word that one can use. lt was forced on at quarter to four. I described that action then as a disgrace and I say that again. It was a farce, if you like. The only way in which laws are made for the Australian Capital Territory is by ordinance. That is a delegated form of legislation. It is an unfair, second-rate, cheap way of making laws. Last Friday I said that there are now 150,000 people in the Australian Capital Territory for whom laws must be made by this Parliament, yet this is the way in which the Government treats the people of the Australian Capital Territory and allows their laws to be made. 
The Government restricted the debate to fewer than 30 minutes, as it turned out, by applying the gag. I spoke, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  supported me briefly and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, representing the AttorneyGeneral, replied. He said some things which were completely innocuous and irrelevant. He missed my point completely. When I rose to reply to him, he moved the gag. This is not an effective, fair or just method of making laws for the Austraiian Capital Territory. It is time the whole system was changed. We have seen the same sort of scene re-enacted in a different way in the Senate - that so-called other place - where another ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory has been disallowed because something was wrong with it. 
My first point in rising is simply to protest. It is time some better method of making laws for the Australian Capital Territory was worked out. People have been saying this constantly. If this House has not time to make laws properly for the Australian Capital Territory it should stop trying to make those laws and give the job to someone else. It should give the Australian Capital Territory a territorial form of government of its own which could do the job properly. When I was speaking on Friday I described how it is just as important to decide whether to let a person out of gaol as it is to decide whether to put him into gaol. That was the whole point of my speech. If we impose and build safeguards into the system for determining whether a person goes to gaol we should have just as good a set of safeguards for deciding whether he should be let out of gaol. This particular ordinance gives a discretion. It allows a judge to say that a prisoner can be released after a minimum non-parole period. 
Instead of giving the job to an independent judicial-like body - a parole board such as exists in nearly all of the States of the United States of America, in New South Wales, in Victoria and in the other States of the Commonwealth - the power in the Australian Capital Territory is given to the Attorney-General or, strictly, to the Governor-General acting on the advice of the Attorney-General. As I said, that, in effect, will be the decision of an anonymous public servant buried somewhere in some back room of the Attorney-General's Department, because the Attorney-General will not have time, or should not have time - he should be doing other things - to consider matters of that sort, important as they are. These decisions should be left to a proper independent judicial-type body. When he replied, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that I underrated ministerial responsibility. What nonsense, in this context. The Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  is sitting opposite and he will appreciate the strength of my remarks when I ask: How can any back bench member gain access to the material that has been used by the anonymous public servant in the report which has been sent to the Minister, to know what it is about and to decide whether he can challenge the Minister in this House and bring into play this wonderful ancient doctrine of ministerial responsibility? In this context it is a farce, a fraud and a cloak to hide secret processes and to keep them hidden from the light of day. Ministerial responsibility is just a fancy high-flown phrase in that context. It means absolutely nothing. 
Again I am reminded by the presence of the Minister for the Navy that if a member seeks to gain access to a psychologist's report, a psychiatrist's report or a welfare officer's report that might have been acted upon he will be told: *No, it is confidential. It is none of your business. It is a matter of Service routine, prison routine or of something else'. Time and time again this is said. How can a back bench member test this by saying: 'But hold on, you are wrong'? He might go to see the Minister secretly, privately or in confidence and ask him to exercise his good offices. If the member gets along on a personal basis wich the Minister he might achieve something. If he does not he will not achieve anything. As a system of seeing that justice is done it is mediaeval and ancient and should be done away with. 
In the course of the speech I made last Friday 1 described the system as being not a system but a cheap form of administrative expediency. The Minister for Foreign Affairs as much as admitted it was because he said the number of cases in the Australian Capital Territory was not sufficient to warrant a parole board at this time. Of course, he twisted the argument. He implied that I was suggesting a full time parole board when nothing had ever been said about a full time parole board. Not even New South Wales and Victoria have full time parole boards. Theirs are made up of part time officers who are simply seconded from their full time duties, whether they be judges or secretaries of departments, to consider the case in question. The Minister admitted this and if one looks at the speech he made as reported in Hansard one sees he was confirming exactly what I have said. It is a cheap form of administrative expediency because the Government does not want to take the time or spend the money to set up a proper system to see that people are let free or not let free. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the names of those members  of  Parliament other than Ministers who have been granted extra secretarial assistance since members became entitled in 1945 to one full-time secretary? 
Will he provide details of the assistance provided including the periods involved and the reasons advanced in support of each case? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capiial Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances 1931-1959 Section 46, Subsection (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance . . for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted from sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, arises out of the tragic news that reached us at the end of last week from the Gazelle Peninsula and the reminder in it of the intensity of feeling about Aboriginal claims for land rights - whether they are made in Papua New Guinea or here in Australia. I refer to the delegation from Yirrkala and Gove that attended on the Prime Minister on 6th May of this year, when the spokesman for that group said that Aboriginals could not be satisfied with anything less than- 
Tonight the House is examining the Budget although, having listened to the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  I began to have some doubts. 1 do not intend to be very long. When I found my name down to speak on the Budget tonight I searched my conscience. I have given much thought to the Budget and to what it means. I have discussed it in various public places. 1 thought that I could come into the House and analyse the Budget but then it struck me that this would be dishonest and wrong because, quite frankly, I am biased. I am prejudiced. I think it far more accurate and more valuable for me to say this right at the outset and try to give my reasons for being biased and prejudiced against this Budget which has been introduced by the Government for the year 1971-72. 1 look at what has happened to this country during the 20-odd years of Liberal-Country Party government. It is run down. All the values that goodthinking people attach to a country have tended to be dissipated under this coalition Government. When I say this I refer to things like our per capita rate of growth which is one of the lowest for a Western industrialised country. This has happened notwithstanding that we have always regarded ourselves with pride as an industrious, hard-working people who have inherited and live in one of the richest countries in the world. Much of our richness has only recently been discovered. I am speaking now of its mineral wealth. nothwithstanding all these discoveries the per capita growth rate of this great country is one of the lowest in the world. 
T look also at our educational system and I compare it with the educational systems of other countries which are comparable with Australia. In our secondary school system there is a terrible, deep and prolonged crisis. No-one denies it; the Government just does not talk about it. It refuses to discuss it. The only survey available on this problem indicates that the amount of money that is required to be spent is something like $ 1,400m just to maintain the status quo, which is not very good anyway. This is an indication of the depth of the problem. One cannot assess a country's real values better than by looking at the way it treats its young people. In Canberra the resignation rate of school teachers is running at about 13 per cent per annum. Recently someone did a survey of the situation in Queanbeyan. This revealed that last year there was a turnover of about 24 per cent of teachers. I ask honourable members to reflect on that figure. What is causing this situation? 
Many people think that Canberra is pampered with respect to education because it appears to have nice new buildings. The buildings are new all right but there are not sufficient teachers. Male teachers are saying: T can mike more money selling insurance' or T can make more money and can look after my wife and children better by selling used cars'. This is the sort of value that is being reflected by the Government's policies which are emanating from this Parliament and which have emanated from it for many years. These are the reasons why I stand here tonight and admit frankly that I am biased. I could not possibly put my mind to analyse this Budget in a free, objective sense and say: T will analyse it, I will be judicial and try to be fair! If I were a judge sitting in a court I would have to say that I could not hear this case. I would not have the feeling that I was being fair. I would have to say: T have made up my mind already. The evidence against this Government is overwhelming and was overwhelming long before its introduced this Budget'. 
However one cannot stop there. One must ask why. Is the failure by the Government in the past confirmed again by the Budget. 1 think it is confirmed in this Budget. I refer again to education. Male teachers are leaving the profession because they cannot make a living from teaching. One of the most fundamental objectives of any society is to try to perpetuate and inculcate values in the young. Our teaching service is subsisting where it can by the employment of working wives - women who have raised their children and who are unable to cope financially. They have returned to work and become, in effect, part-time teachers - rusty and out of touch to an extent with modern training. But the educational system limps along with stop gap measures of this sort. Measures are being adopted to take sport out of the curriculum. Other measures are being taken to tell boys and girls in the secondary educational system hypocritically that it is better for them to teach themselves. They are not being told honestly that the teachers are not available for them. They are being told hypocritically that it is better to teach themselves, that it will develop a sense of responsibility in some way, that it will stand them in good stead if and when they ever go to a university. These are the values that this Government has allowed to develop, and has encouraged to develop. This is the sort of thing that puts me in my present frame of mind. 
I will give honourable members another example in regard to housing. When 1 came to Canberra 7 or 8 years ago the housing list had 1,000 or 2.000 names on it and the waiting period was about 2 years. Instead of that list being reduced and progress being made, as would be expected if one thought of progress in the sense of improving living conditions, the position has become worse. In the last 12 months the housing list has grown from 4,000 names to 6,000 names. 
I do not know how Ministers get houses. They have ways of their own. This is a situation that really affects the people of Canberra - this show place that is being developed. It is the same throughout the rest of the country. 
I now turn to social services. I mention the number of people who are immigrants to this country, who have wanted to build a good life here for themselves, who have become naturalised, who have put in 10, 12, 15 or 20 years hard work building the Snowy Mountains scheme and bringing about its completion, who have helped to construct Canberra. They then grow old and want to slow down or stop work. They find that when they talk to their compatriots from Europe that it is no good retiring in this country. The pensions are not good enough. They are told to go back to Italy, Holland, Belgium, Germany or the other parts of Europe because there they can grow old and be cared for. Every honourable member in this House must have had this experience, because I have met it so often. Such people have the problem of what the effect will be if they become naturalised in Australia. This is the sort of thing that has happened in this great country of ours over so many years under the leadership of the Liberal-Country Party Government. This has happened in a country that, together with New Zealand, Germany and Prussia in the latter years of the 19th century, pioneered social services. We poineered such things. We were the forerunners and set the pace. Today, immigrants go back to Europe because it is no good growing old in this country. These are the sorts of things that compel me to say it is no good my trying to analyse this Budget because I start with a prejudiced and biased attitude. 
A couple of days before the presentation of the Budget an event happened in the United States of America which affected the entire world. It made this Budget completely irrelevant; complete balderdash; not worth the paper it is written on. Yet the Budget was not postponed. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  presented it to this House as if the events in Europe and the United States - the American President's declaration of floating the American dollar - had nothing to do with it. Yet every learned economist - every person who understands the situation as it affects international trade and our ability to earn income - knows that that event, which was pending, made this so called Budget completely irrelevant. 
1 agree. But more than that, 1 do not think it realises that it is out of its depth. Even if that event had not happened - and it was foreseeable - the American sneezes had been going on for a long time. Plenty of signs were emanating from the United States of America to indicate that such a move was imminent or likely to take place. Yet no-one at the Government level in this country seems to have concerned himself or taken any account of the situation. Even if one could isolate the Budget from these events altogether, this is a deflationary Budget. The Treasurer talked about the great need to stop galloping inflation. Fair enough; no-one could complain about that but who caused inflation? If honourable members turn to the Treasury White Paper recently published - Australian Economy 1971 - they will find it finished with this remark: 
By and large, however, the conclusion to be drawn is that our inflationary problem has in the main had its origins here- 
That is here in Australia -  and has gained its impetus from home sources.  There is no doubt where it came from. The inflationary trend began with the Government's Budget introduced in 1969, reinforced with the Budget last year. In other words, it is a self-induced thing. It may well be that if one wanted to be cynical  -  I am not - one could say that it was planned this way. Speaking in the malicious sense what better way is there to allocate or re-allocate resources than by inflation? If one is a member of the coalition parties that represent certain interests in the community that are essentially wealthy interests, what better way would one have to help one's friends than to encourage or permit inflation. With the diminishing purchasing power of the $1 the only person who suffers is the person on the low fixed income. The person who can turn his money over, who can invest and change his investment, who can speculate, will profit and do well by inflation. There is no problem there. If one represents such o person's interests, there is no problem at all. It does not matter then for the person on the low and fixed income. 
Of course, if such a person is represented by big and powerful friends - I mean by that trade unions who can look after and protect his interests - he can manage to keep up a little. He will not lose too much. But if he is a person who is not represented by big and powerful friends - pensioners or superannuated public servants - he will fall further and further behind. Honourable members will have the despicable, despairing, disappointing and depressing spectacle of people like those people putting up their hands in despair. They will say: 'Please help us. Look, it is 3 years since we have received a rise in payments', or: 'We have not received a 50c increase for 6 months. Please do something'. But this Government does not seem to do much about it at all. Such people have no-one to push for them. So inflation develops. This method of allocation of resources is a truly bad, unfair and dishonest one because it is a secret and hidden way of moving resources up. 
If honourable members look at this Government's policy, it seems to me they will find such examples all the way through. Honourable members can look at the tax on petrol or the increased postal charges. It all adds up to the same thing. The real point is this, and I say it because quite frankly I am disappointed: I think this Budget is not worth the paper it is written on. I think only one thing will attend to the mounting crisis in this country. That will be a complete change of government bringing with it fresh ideas. I ask honourable members to look, for example, at the rural crisis. The rural industries will be affected by events in the United States, which affect Japan and which will in turn affect us. We know that. Honourable members opposite talk about a figure of $60m. As I look at the honourable member for Angas sitting on the other side of the House, I think it is almost laughable. He must know it is almost laughable. This sum of money is allocated in such a way that it will all end up with  Mr Dalgety  anyway. These days,  Mr Dalgety  does not put his money back into the land. As he sees it in his interest, he has better things to do with it because his interests do not reflect the interests of 
Australia. He will put the money somewhere else. Much of the S60m will find its way to  Mr Dalgety  and people like him. The little man on the land will not be helped. The money will not be allocated on the basis of need. The big man who is grazing cattle who is in no real state of crisis does not need it so much. It is the fellow who does not have cattle, who is completely dependent on wool, who really needs it. 
Does he really? There you are. It is a sorry state. I know that traditionally we are accustomed to budgets being tabled in this House. It is a sorry state to reflect that no planning of any sort, other than a query as to what will happen after these things have occurred - no foresight, no vision - is to be found in the Government parties. When the Government looks at the wealth that this country is able to produce it is able happily to say that it will take $630m out of it in order to cure this illness that it has encouraged or even brought about. We will cure it or try to cure it or try to slow down this disease we have allowed to creep into the economy by taking $630m out of it. When I was a schoolboy I was taught that money was a measure of value and I have not met an economist anywhere who has ever said it was anything else. It is a means of exchange and other things too but it is essentially a measure of value. The Government is taking $630m out of the economy, value that could be used for houses, schools, development or social services. The best that the Government can do is take $630m worth of value out of the economy and leave it dead. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain residents of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the present procedures of the House of Representatives regarding the presentation of petitions are inadequate in that no machinery exists for the automatic and careful consideration of the contents of petitions. 
That thousands of petitioners, who rightly resort to petitions in an attempt to communicate their opinions to the House, are misled in thinking that their opinions will ever be considered by  the  House. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will take steps to appoint a Standing Committee which will (a) consider all petitions presented to the House and (b) recommend to tho House any action which it thinks should be taken with respect to them. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of students of Class 6 L of Griffith Primary School in the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there are 37 children in our class as there is a teacher shortage; 
That we are trying to make secondary school though the shortage of teachers is disappointing and it is not known whether teachers can be provided for us; 
That we do not think children who wish to learn should be made to suffer in a situation which was not caused by, them. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will take immediate steps to provide us with teachers for high school. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many single persons in Canberra are at present on the Government accommodation list for one bedroom flats or bed sitter flats. 
Over what period have these persons been waiting to be allocated Government fiats. 
When does he anticipate that these people will be allocated Government flats. 
Is it the intention of the Government to build more flats for single persons; if so, when. 
Has the list been checked recently to ascertain the eligibility of those at present on it; if not, why not. 
Was a survey carried out recently to ascertain how many married people were occupying flats intended for use by single persons. 
Arc single flats ever allocated to married persons (a) transferring to Canberra or (b) in Canberra. 
If so, how many have been allocated and under what circumstances. 
How many married families are living in single Government accommodation and is it intended to transfer any or all of these persons to Government houses. 
If it is intended to transfer these people is it at their request or are they allowed to stay on in Government flats if they so wish. 
ls it intended to reopen the Government accommodation list for single persons who are not on the list at present. 
On what date was the list closed. 
How many eligible single persons have been allocated Government flats in the last (a) 3 months, (b) 6 months, (c) 9 months, (d) 12 months, (e) 18 months and (f) 2 years. 
Why did the Government cease building flats for single persons. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In view of the extremely rapid rate of growth of Darwin in the Northern Territory does the Commonwealth hold any vacant or undeveloped land for the purpose of effecting future subdivisions and future development; if so, what quantity of land is available and where is it located. 
Is it expected that Darwin will develop in such a way that the Commonwealth will have to acquire privately owned vacant or undeveloped land for the purposes of facilitating this development. 
If so, what is the present value ot any suitable privately owned or undeveloped land, and to whom does it belong. 
Can he say whether this land is increasing in value; if so, how long does the Government intend to wait before acquiring it. 
We have heard the classic traditional exposition of the conservative point of view in politics from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  The Minister spoke for about two-thirds of his time in a manner which suggested he was going to give a law book type treatise on constitutional law. It was only towards the end of his address that he dealt with the subject of the discussion, which is the need to pass laws relating to trade practices, consumer protection, consumer credit, securities markets and overseas control. He said that we must not hurry but that we will press on relentlessly in some way and that what we will do in the meantime is fill the gap that has now been shown to exist in our trade practices legislation. 
If the Government presses on at its past rate we will have to wait approximately another 61 years because that is the time which this Government has taken to use the various methods available to it to test or to have the Huddart Parker decision repealed. That decision was taken in 1909 and it placed a limitation upon corporation power. The decision has been the subject of a lot of judicial comment as I am sure the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  and other honourable members realise. It is to his credit that this year the Government has initiated litigation which has produced this very fine result but it has taken 61 years to do it. Are we to wait for a similar step or for legislation before any action is taken? This is really what it comes down to. 
The parts of this discussion which interest me and which I think are important are these. I understand that 5 of the 6 honourable members who are to speak in this debate are lawyers. I have not read all of the judgment in the case but it struck me from what I did read this morning that it is an indictment in many ways of the system under which we govern ourselves. By this I mean that it reflects the extremely rigid legalistic Constitution that not only divides power between the various governments and imposes limitations and restrictions on the exercise of that power, but also requires that the system chosen for us is a system that was chosen by gentlemen who lived and worked about 80 years ago. They created it not for us but as a sort of compromise solution to the problems which they experienced at that time and they devised the powers contained in our Constitution to suit their ends. They could not contemplate the purposes, needs and problems that we would have to face. 
Those of us who have been trained in the law and who have had experience of the law tend to forget or overlook or not realise how silly our system sometimes looks to people who are hot lawyers. We should reflect, for example, on the fact that in 1909 our High Court declared in the Huddart-Parker v. Moorehead case that 2 sections of the Australian Industries Preservation Act 1906 were invalid. Those sections reflected the will of the Parliament at that time. They were important and good sections designed to meet a social purpose at that time. However, for practical purposes they were repealed and declared invalid by the High Court 62 years ago. We have now been told by the High Court that that decision was wrong and that those sections were validly enacted. Does not this look silly? The same High Court has now told us that we do have the power that it said in 1909 we did not have. It is against the traditions of the High Court to tell us from a drafting point of view how we should go about trying again and it is theoretically possible, as I am sure lawyers will appreciate, that we could try again and we could again run into some unforeseen trouble. 
For many years government has been conducted in this country on the basis that this Parliament has very little power to enact certain types of laws. The traditional excuse offered by our conservative governments when defending themselves against criticism that they are not doing anything about the problems of the country - the sort of problems that are touched upon in this debate - has been to say that they cannot do anything because the Constitution does not give them the power to do it. This very restrictive trade practices legislation which the High Court has now held to be invalid, but for reasons not associated with lack of power but for reasons more the result of attempts to overcome a fear that there was a lack of power, has been the vehicle whereby the High Court has told us that we have had the power all the time. One wonders, of course, how many other opportunities exist somewhere in the Australian Commonwealth through the imaginative use of legislative power, properly tested through the High Court and perhaps used, explored or revealed by the use of referendums. 
One wonders what other excuses this Government will come up with when members of the Opposition and other commentators outside this House say: 'Why do you not make a law on this? There is a crying problem in the country and a real one that needs attention. Why do you not do something about it? Are you going to say that you do not have the real power or that the corporation power is too limited?' This Government will have to find more and more excuses. It is becoming more and more difficult as times goes by because the High Court itself seems to be changing. It seems to me that our experience proves one thing beyond doubt and that is that given the Constitution that we have and given our High Court made up of people who live within our society, any Parliament worth its salt must make more extensive use of the High Court to obtain judgment on legislation that is of doubtful validity so that we will quickly build up a body of law that is in keeping with our modern conditions. We cannot seek advisory opinions but it can be done in other ways particularly now that we are moving into an era of imaginative and wide ranging systems of legal aid. Sixty-two years is too long for a Parliament to wait to be told that all along it could have done something that it had been told it could not do. 
This Parliament will also have to make much more use of referendums and take a chance that they will not always succeed. I know it means mors expense but so be it. It will be a small price to pay to have a working Constitution that is more in keeping with modern requirements. The Australian economy today no longer consists of 6 separate State economies plus one superimposed area of Federal economic interest. The Constitutional Review Committee pointed out in 1959 that there is now one Australian integrated economy and that its various components are interdependent and the condition of any one affects all the others. The Australian economy is diverse and sophisticated. Sometimes it is so sophisticated that it tends to resemble a Petty cartoon. The influences and the forces that operate within the economy are examples of private power. They have never been adequately investigated and they are not responsible to any democratically elected bodies. If they are allowed to continue as they have been allowed to continue in the past we will not command our future. We will just drift along as we have done in the past. The laissez-faire view was never appropriate even in the eighteenth century. It is bizarre in its unreality today. Intervention and stimulus by public power - not private power - are necessary in a democratic Australia. That public power can be exercised only through this Parliament. 
The subjects listed in this proposal to discuss a matter of public importance are important. They are the sort of things which have arisen in the economy, particularly since the end of the Second World War. In recent years, banking has been transformed. Credit facilities have been transformed by mercantile banks and hire purchase companies. There has been a concentration of manufacturing and com mercial interests that leaves consumers bewildered and vulnerable as they instinctively feel that they are being exploited by forces over which they have no control. We have seen Australia invaded by foreign capital, the magnitude of which should have been foreseen. That foreign capital brings with it foreign ownership which is foreign private power. That power also must be made responsible and accountable to the Australian people. If it is to be done and done properly, the Commonwealth Parliament must have more power. The recent decision of the High Court has indicated that there is one major source of that power which is now ready and available for use. 
In the time remaining to me I might just shorten my remarks by saying that as recently as 2 years ago one of the most learned writers on Australian constitutional law described Australia as 'constitutionally the frozen continent'. I think there would be very little argument about that, but some of the recent decisions of the High Court have thrown doubt upon it and changed it. A thaw is in the air and it can be felt, particularly with this most important decision. What remains to be done, of course, is for the Government to pick up the ball and do something about it, because if the opportunity is botched, either deliberately or otherwise, then an opportunity will have been lost. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Arc (a) renovations and (b) extensions being carried out or about to be carried out to the Prime Minister's Lodge. 
If so, what are the reasons for and what is the estimated cost of the (a) renovations and (b) extensions. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What is the chemical composition of the substance, Solvex, which is being added to the sewage at the Weston Creek treatment works. 
What amount is added per day and what concentration does this give rise to in the Molonglo River. 
What is the purpose of adding Solvex to the sewage. 
What is its lifetime in water. 
Is it harmful to plant life or the life of animals including fish, insects and humans. 
For what period of time (a) has it been used and (b) will it continue to be used. 
If the answers to parts (4) and (5) are not known, why was this compound used without an investigation of its effects. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What are the reasons for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library being refused copies of the (a) A.C.T. Police General Orders and Instruction Manual, (b) A.C.T. Police Law Reference Manual and (c) A.C.T. Police Practice for Constables. 
Is it a fact that members of the Police Force are often engaged in work that produces public comment and on which Members of Parliament are required to commit themselves; if so, will he direct that copies of these documents be made available to the Library. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is  a  likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several Stale Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous anil coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
You Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy, Ordinances 1931-1959 section 46, sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisment or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance ... for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted "from sub-section (1) of section 46 of the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many  people  were registered as (a) unemployed and (b) in receipt of unemployment benefits in Canberra in each year  from  1960  to  1971 inclusive. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that he has been allotted land in Campbell in the Australian Capital Territory and that the National Capital Development Commission is building a house under sub-contract which he will occupy first as a tenant and which he will subsequently have the right to purchase. 
What was the value of the land when valued, and what was the date of the valuation. 
What is the estimated cost of construction of the house. 
Will his Department make finance available for the purchase of the house if he requests it; if so, under what terms would it be made available. 
What restrictions exist on his eventual right to sell or lease the house and land. 
 I second the motion which is of particular concern to me for obvious reasons. The Australian Capital Territory is my electorate and the matter of houses for Ministers is the subject of so much of the motion because it has been referred to in the Press as the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  stated. The real reason for urgency in relation to this matter is because it cannot be understood without a reference as to why there is public concern in Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory over this development. It is for this reason that I refer shortly to the matter. There is a great housing shortage in Canberra. There are 6,000 people on the waiting list for a government house in Canberra. Some SO per cent or 60 per cent of people who come into my office every week come in with problems associated with housing. 
The giving of this land to a Minister of the Crown pursuant to a practice of this sort brings this whole Parliament into disrepute. It savours of an unfair advantage to politicians generally, whether they be Ministers of the Crown or not, and it rubs off on us all. I hasten to add, as the honourable member for Chifley said in his speech, that no reflection is directed at the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  To my mind, and I am sure to the minds of all honourable members, he has inherited this situation and he probably finds himself in a most invidious situation, although it has to be said that if the passage of time proves what I am convinced it will prove, in 5, 10 or IS years time he will make a tax free capital gain of $5,000, $10,000, $15,000 or $20,000 on that land. That is the common view expressed by real estate agents in this city at the moment. 
 I appreciate your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  and of course I cannot quibble with it. But I have to put this: The comparison between the practice of the Government in having this system for Ministers for the Interior and the practice that it follows in providing housing and housing finance for the rest of the people of the Australian Capital Territory is causing dissension, alarm and suspicion. This gives the whole discussion an element of urgency and justifies its being referred to in speaking to the motion for the suspen sion of Standing Orders. This matter has to be discussed at this time. It is not as though we were discussing - I say this with great respect - something of great importance at the moment. The Budget debate is still proceeding, and the Budget is not worth the paper it is written on. It is not that we do not have time to discuss this matter at this stage. It could be done. The Parliament is about to adjourn for the weekend. Development is taking place on that house at the moment. Resources are being allocated for it. It may well be, for all I know, that the Minister himself is making provision for the allocation of his own private resources towards the purchase of it, which will cause embrassment to him if this motion is not debated and cleared up at the moment. However this is hard to see because, as I understand the answer to my question yesterday the house will be financed on something less than $2,000 even though the present value of it is approximately $40,000. 
All these matters touch on this element of urgency and cannot be divorced from the feeling that exists in Canberra - I hope I can speak with some authority on this - that is reflected in the editorial's of such responsible newspapers as the 'Canberra Times', and the Press coverage that that responsible newspaper gives to this subject, and the 'Canberra News' in recent weeks stating what they consider to be the feeling of the people of Canberra and which I have had occasion to advert to in public places outside this House. This matter is linked up with the use of the gag in this House particularly on matters concerning the Australian Capital Territory. As the honourable member for Chifley said, he was gagged when he tried to raise this question last night even though he believed he had made arrangements to have the question debated last night. It is linked wi'.h the unconscionable use of the gag during the last debate in this House relating to rn Australian Capital Territory ordinance. That was the debate on the Parole of Prisoners Ordinance. It is linked with the use of the gag on other occasions on which legislation affecting the Australian Capital Territory h-s been involved. It is also linked up with the remarks of the Minister the other day about territorial government, which he put o.T as something that might come about in. say 10 years time. These remarks also have drawn adverse comment from the people of the Australian Capital Territory through their newspapers and spokesmen, for example, the members of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council, in relation to the attitude of the Government towards the Australian Capital Territory. 
It is that sort of feeling which is abroad that must be dispelled by getting rid of this suspicion that comes from this system that the Government has introduced in the last few years of giving Ministers of the Crown this incredible advantage. They compare very, very favourably. To illustrate the unrest, one can only compare this system with the system that applies to Commonwealth public servants. Commonwealth public servants are entitled to the same financial advantage as a Minister of the Crown but they do not get this particular block of land. They are allocated a block of land somewhere else in Canberra. This block of land is without doubt the best undeveloped vacant block of land in Canberra. I had a look at it this morning. It has been commented on by real estate agents. In that sense, a monopoly situation will exist. By all means the land should be given to a Minister of the Crown but not sold to him. It could be used for other Ministers. 
I have not tried to stray,  Mr Speaker,  because I have tried as well as I can to draw attention to the reasons why this motion is urgent. 
I do not wish to dispute your ruling,  Mr Speaker. 
May I put this as an additional reason why it should be debated now: The Minister was quoted in this morning's 'Canberra Times' as saying that he did not want to comment about the matters raised in the editorial in the Canberra Times' yesterday about ministerial housing, or about the subject at all. Of course that it his right, but it only reinforces the feeling that is abroad in the community that there is something secret or hidden going on and that there is something that a little bit of light should be shone on so we can all know more about it. It is in the best interests of the Minister, the Government and every member,, of this House to have this matter debated properly now so that this practice which has grown up can be thoroughly investigated, reported upon and, I personally would hope, changed. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement in reply. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in 'The Australian' newspaper of 9th April 1971 referring to an agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland for the State Government to introduce legislation easing restrictions on Queensland's 30,000 assisted Aborigines. 
If so, will he table copies of this agreement or otherwise make it available. 
What are the full and precise terms of the agreement that has been reached between the two Governments. 
When is the agreement likely to be implemented. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homo geneoces and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that  a  Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to inquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the A.C.T. respectfully showeth: 
That the A.C.T. Pharmacy Ordinance 1931-1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person  shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument' or appliance ... for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted from Sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the A.C.T. Pharmacy Ordinance. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth 
That the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances 1931-1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted from Sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully sheweth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie lt, and its mode of operation and administration. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Are the DC3 type aircraft which were purchased from Jet Airlines of Australia and which are to be supplied to under-developed countries such as Laos, Cambodia and Nepal equipped in a full instrument flight rules configuration. 
Is it a fact that countries such as Laos, Cambodia and Nepal, in which the aircraft are to operate, are devoid of the required ground installations necessary for full instrument flight rules operation. 
Is it a fact that Australia has a highly developed instrument flight rules system of ground installations and that the instrument flight rules equipment in the DC3 aircraft make them ideally suited for operations in Australia and not in countries such as those mentioned. 
Were the potential Australian DC3 operators given the opportunity to purchase the DC3 aircraft; if not, why not. 
Has the Government now lifted the ban which has restricted the import into Australia of airline type aircraft over 12,500 lb gross weight so as to permit Australian operators to obtain DC3 type aircraft at ruling overseas market prices; if not, does the Government intend to lift the ban. 
Can the Minister say whether the ruling market price in the United Kingdom for DC3 type aircraft is approximately stg1 1,000 as suggested in the English 'Flight' magazine dated5th November 1970; if not, what is the ruling market price for these aircraft. 
What were the sale prices of all other DC3 aircraft sold in Australia during the last 5 years. 
What was the price paid to Jet Airlines of Australia for each of the aircraft 
If the price was above the market price, why was the company paid more than the market price. 
Why were the First Class Airline Pilots' Licences possessed by the DC3 Captains who were in the employ of Jet Airlines of Australia withdrawn after the expiry date of their first period of validity and why were they issued with a more restricted type licence conferring lower airline pilot status. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Bureau of Census and Statistics abandoned a proposed survey of family incomes and family expenditure because of the Government's economy drive. 
Has a bureau section consisting of about five statisticians been disbanded and told not to continue with this work. 
Is he able to say whether these surveys normally form an essential basis for the welfare policies of most other advanced countries. 
If the position is as stated, will the survey be recommenced and carried through to completion; if so, when. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27) per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47 J per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances 1931-1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance . for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted from Sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assem bled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralization of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied .by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is  a  homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that  a  Committee of Enquiry, on which are representatedrepresentated the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And you petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What banking facilities are available at the Wave Hill Aboriginal Welfare Settlement in the Northern Territory. 
Has his attention been drawn to complaints by Gurindji Aborigines in the Wave Hill and Wattie Creek areas of the Northern Territory that they have experienced great difficulty in cashing cheques and are discriminated against because of the delay that takes place in the cashing of their cheques. 
Will he take the appropriate steps to ensure that these difficulties are overcome. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to proposals to develop hydro-electric resources in Tasmania by the submerging of Lake Pedder. 
If so, can he say whether there are alternative schemes and proposals for developing alternative hydro-electric resources that would result in Lake Pedder being unaffected and located between two artificial lakes. 
Are the alternative schemes as economically viable as the scheme, that would  result  in Lake Pedder being submerged. 
Would the loss of Lake Pedder destroy great natural beauty and. make impossible the full scientific investigation and study of the surrounding button grass sedgeland and the associated fauna and flora. 
Will the destruction. of Lake Pedder destroy  a  unique part of Australia which should be regarded as being owned not only by our generation but by our generation in trust for future generations. 
Does the contemplated project require the expenditure of Commonwealth funds; if so, will he ensure that the expenditure of those funds is made conditional on the alternative projects being developed rather than the project which results in Lake Pedder being submerged. 
If he possesses any influence with his colleagues in the Tasmanian Parliament who are responsible for the contemplated project, will he discuss the project with them as a matter of urgency, 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australia Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the forseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now. being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practicing educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underly it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances 1931-1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance ... for preventing conception*. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted from Sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Interior. Is it a fact that there has for some time been a demand by discount stores to acquire premises in Canberra suitable for the conduct of their type of business? Is it also a fact that such discount stores are often able to sell their goods at prices as much as IS per cent, 20 per cent or even 25 per cent less than other stores? Is there not advantage to the people of Canberra if discount stores are not discouraged from trading in Canberra? Has a large building suitable for discount trading and located in Canberra Avenue been vacant since May of this year when it was constructed? Has the Minister been approached by a large discount store with a request that he not apply his veto to having the purpose clause changed so that it can lease the site and use it for discount trading? 
 I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: "8a. Section51c of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: 51c. - (1.) Section five of the Commonwealth Prisoners Act 1967 does not apply in relation to a person serving a term of imprisonment imposed following a conviction for an offence against section fifty-one or section fifty-one  a  of this Act. (2.) A person referred to in the last preceding sub-section shall, for the purpose of his release on parole, be treated as if his term of imprisonment had been imposed following a conviction for an offence against a law of the State where he is imprisoned.'.". 
As has already been stated, the amendments presuppose that the first amendment failed. The principal objective of the Opposition in moving the first amendment was to express total disapproval of the whole philosophy underlying the National Service Act. But having failed with our first amendment the best that we can do is to try to derive some comfort from it, to effect some reform, to soften some of the worst and more unjust features of the Bill. 
It always seems to me that one of the most unjust features of the Act is the one that flows from section 51c, which is referred to in this amendment - that is, the enactment that distinguishes and discriminates between Commonwealth offenders, who are offenders because they have broken the provisions of the National Service Act, and other Commonwealth offenders. The scheme of the principal Act is to say of people who have refused to acknowledge their service or who have refused to be called up that they will go into prison for the term that they otherwise would have served in the armed forces. Conviction under this Act makes them Commonwealth prisoners. Ordinarily if they were Commonwealth prisoners they would be entitled to the provisions of sections 4 and 5 of the Commonwealth Prisoners Act which in effect gives a power to the magistrate or the judge who deals with the particular person for whatever offence it is, to impose a minimum non-parole period. In other words, if a magistrate or a judge is sentencing a person to 18 months imprisonment he can say: 'Look, in my opinion, having regard to all the circumstances it would be reasonable to consider that you be let out after, shall we say, 6 months'. Machinery is created whereby after 6 months someone else picks it up. In the States it is usually a parole board. But under the Commonwealth Prisoners Act it is the Governor-General who invariably acts on the advice of the AttorneyGeneral. That is the normal procedure that applies to any Commonwealth prisoner. 
For some reason the Commonwealth, when enacting the National Service Act, said that those provisions should not apply to persons convicted under the Act. This is an odd sort of discrimination to practise against people who break a Commonwealth law in this way as against people who break other Commonwealth laws, because when the Commonwealth enacted the principal Act it did not take away from people sentenced under that Act their entitlement to remissions for good behaviour. It said that these people could have this entitlement just like any other prisoner who breaks a Commonwealth law who receives so much time off for good behaviour. A prisoner who is sentenced to 5 years gaol knows that if he behaves himself and if he works towards his reform he can get out, say, after 4 years. They do not take this entitlement away from a prisoner convicted under the National Service Act. This entitlement is given to these prisoners just as it is to other Commonwealth prisoners. But when it came to parole, the Commonwealth said: 'No, you cannot have it'. 1 suppose one has to ask the question: Why? We find spelt out in the principal Act a number of rather radical departures from ordinary criminology or penology. For example, normally we give a power to a magistrate or a judge to sentence up to a limit, having regard to antecedents, good behaviour, good character, the nature of the offence, the inducement to the person who committed the offence and the motives behind the offence. We give the magistrate or the judge power to look into these matters and to ask what is reasonable for this particular person. None of that was done here because the Government says: 'Irrespective of whether you are a good fellow, a bad fellow, a man with a long criminal record, a first offender, or you were acting under the .most pressing influences resulting from hardship, you will get 2 years'. Under the Government's amending Bill it will be 18 months now but this does not make any difference to the principle. 
It is like a pay back; it is like a threat; it is like a barbaric form of retribution; it is like the Government saying to the young men in advance: 'Here is a law. We know you might think it is a bad law but there is a higher principle involved. All laws, good or bad, should be obeyed and we are going to put you in gaol if you do not obey them.' However, rather than give these offenders treatment similar to that given to other Commonwealth prisoners or because they, might be acting out of the highest motives, allow them to be given some preferential treatment - as might well be the case because the magistrate might be influenced in that way - the Government says: 'No, we will write into this statute a mandatory, strict, rigid sentence for the period he was supposed to serve in the armed forces'. 
I have described it as a retribution, a pay back, a threat, a form of blackmail or, if you like, revenge, lt goes against every principle that is ever enacted in any court of justice anywhere. Why did the Government do this except in terrorem, to frighten them, to put the fear of hell into these young people. It is an indication of the degree to which the Government has failed that so many young men have not been frightened by this legislation but have stood up and been counted, and have these young men who have been named in this House tonight. Those are the principal adverse features of this legislation. All this amendment seeks to do is to put these young men on the same level as any other Commonwealth prisoner. Why should they not be on the same level? Why should the magistrate not be permitted to look into the circumstances as he does in every other case? Or is it that the Government does not trust the magistrates either? And if it does not trust the magistrates, could it be that it also does not trust the judges of the superior courts who might in some indirect way reflect the thinking of the community on this controversial issue? So the Government takes it out of the magistrates' hands and out of the hands of the district or county court judges and says: 'The sentence shall be 2 years; take it or leave it.' This is all this amendment seeks to deal with. Surely it is not controversial. 
There is a second part of the amendment which is less essential, it seems to me, but which takes the actual making of the parole order out of the hands of the Governor-General, who acts upon the advice of the Attorney-General, and gives it to whoever is the parole making body in the State where the young person concerned has been arrested, charged, convicted and is serving his term. Surely that too is only normal because that is presumably the place where he is living and is where he will ordinarily come under notice. That is how the prison systems in this country work. They work at State level. Surely this is acceptable. This is the job that the people on the parole boards do all the time. They have to determine whether a person is to be released or not. They have to determine whether he is likely to offend again, whether there is a job for him outside, what the effect of his detention is having on his family, what the effect of his detention is having on his future career, on his scholarship ambitions or his ambitions of any sort. They are the people who have to consider these things. They are the people who specialise in it because that is their full time job. They are not like the Governor-General who acts on the ad hoc advice given to him from time to time by the Attorney-General. 
They are the people who have to consider the effect on a person who, although nominally a criminal and with what is seen by some people to be a blot on his record, is still a person who is not a criminal. He is certainly not criminally oriented in any way. But he is now to be subjected to the company of criminals. They are the people who have to consider these matters and consider what is happening to this young man of impressionable years. He has been ordered into gaol for this period of time. Is he deteriorating because of the company he is now being forced by this Government to keep? Will he gain any advantage if we let him out into the healthy and real world? These are the matters which the parole boards in the States consider all the time. The second part of the amendment seeks to put these Commonwealth offenders, if they may be called that for having infringed these parts of the National Service Act, on the same basis as others with regard to minimum non-parole periods and, so far as the actual making of a parole order is concerned, on the same basis as other Commonwealth prisoners. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system. 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia  is  educationally and administratively desirable, and  is  now being studied by several State Government Departments. 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And you petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
 Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the A.C.T. respectfully showeth: 
That the A.C.T. Pharmacy Ordinance 1931-1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way' of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance ... for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help  prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted from Sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the A.C.T. Pharmacy Ordinance. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Can a check be made on telephone accounts where a subscriber feels that there has been an overcharge. 
How do errors in telephone accounts occur. 
Can subscribers be given an itemised account of STD calls; if not, why not. 
How many complaints concerning telephone accounts in the Australian Capital Territory have been investigated in the 12 months ended 31st March 1971. 
How many of these complaints were found to be justified. 
How many were found to be (a) overcharges and (b) undercharges. 
Can a subscriber be charged for another subscriber's telephone calls; if so, how. 
Has his Department investigated systems such as those used in the United States of America by Bell Telephone Laboratories where accounts are sent monthly, containing an itemised list of all numbers, dates and charges dialled outside the local area. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Are steps being taken to construct a Commonwealth owned public museum of Aboriginal arts and crafts and artefacts in Alice Springs. 
If so, when will the museum be built. 
Will the Government attempt to recover the many Aboriginal relics and art pieces and other rare artefacts which have been acquired by private collectors and placed in private museums. 
Have steps been taken to preserve by magnetic tape the many other oral historical records of the many ageing Aboriginal men and women who live in the Northern Territory, which would otherwise be lost if not recorded. 
asked the Minister for  the  Interior, upon notice: 
Are Government flats in Canberra available for sale in accordance with the declared aims of the strata titles legislation of the Australian Capital Territory; if not, why not. 
If the Government flats that have already been constructed are unsuitable for conversion to strata title, what is it that makes them unsuitable. 
Will the Government ensure that Government flats constructed in the future are capable of being sold with strata titles. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Did he state in answer to question No. 3466 (Hansard, 26th August 1971, page 793) that ninetyfour new flats will be commenced in Lyons on the Government's 1971-72 programme. 
If so, will they be so designed and constructed that they can be offered for sale under the provisions of the strata titles legislation of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Will the Government offer these flats for sale to tenants; if so, on what terms. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Does the Canberra Repertory Society occupy 4 old gable end type huts located at Riverside in the Australian Capital Territory, comprising approximately 4,800 square feet. 
Can he say whether the present development of the Canberra Repertory Society is being hindered by the condition of its premises and by the uncertainty, surrounding its right to continue to occupy those premises in the future. 
What period of occupancy of its present premises can the Society reasonably expect. 
Will the existing training centre at Riverside at present occupied by the Department of Immigration become vacant in the future; if so, will the Government make those premises available to the Society for use as an intimate theatre.  (5)Is  it the intention of the Government to encourage the Society to develop into a resident theatre by giving financial assistance and providing suitable premises. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice; 
When and why was Casey House in Canberra built. 
Who have been the various occupiers since it was built and (a) for what periods and (b) in what capacity did they occupy it. 
When did it cease to be used for its original purpose. 
What were the reasons for Casey House being used for purposes other than its original purpose. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
The the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances 1931-1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance . for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted from Sub-section (J) of Section 46 of the Australian Capita] Territory Pharmacy Ordinances. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respecfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a committee of enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances 1931-1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument' or appliance ... for preventing conception. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted from Sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Inquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institu tions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an. Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlay it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many (a) aircraft movements and (b) jet aircraft movements have there been in and out of Canberra Airport in each year from 1960 to 1970 inclusive. 
Have any surveys or estimates been made of the likely (a) number of and (b) increase in jet aircraft movements into and out of Canberra Airport during the next 10 years; if so what do they reveal. 
Is it intended to lengthen runway 17/35 at Canberra Airport. 
If so, (a) to what length will the runway be extended, (b) when will the work be completed and (c) what will be the approximate cost. 
What stage has been reached in planning to locate another airport further away from Canberra for the purpose of ' accommodating increased jet aircraft movements. 
What steps are being taken by the Government to acquire land for this purpose. 
Will the Government acquire land as soon as possible and before property values increase in expectation that land will have to be acquired.' 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is consideration being given to implementing restrictions on the operation of light aircraft for air training purposes at Canberra Airport within the next few years. 
If so, what restrictions are being contemplated, and what are the reasons for them. 
What alternative facilities to Canberra Airport would be provided for this type of pilot training. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Does his Department or the National Capital Development Commission keep records that would indicate the number and percentage of persons acquiring industrial land in Canberra who do not acquire it for their own use but rather for the purpose of developing it and selling it or otherwise speculating and profiting in the disposal of that land. 
If so, can these records be made public. 
asked the Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
ls it a fact, as reported in The Australian of 30th July 1971, that he hopes to be able to announce soon the Government's attitude on Aboriginal land rights. 
If so, what is the Government's attitude on Aboriginal land rights. 
When will the Yirrkala Village Council and the Djapu Tribe of Aborigines be given answers to their demand for land rights made to the Prime Minister on 6th May 1971. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What are the usual priority conditions to which he referred in answer to question No. 3805 relating to the allocation of land for the building of a house for the Minister for the Interior (Hansard, 9th September 1971). 
What are the conditions and situations which must exist before priority conditions apply. 
When did priority conditions first apply in the Australian Capital Territory. 
ls it the intention of the Government to change the arrangements now in force. 
What rental will be paid by the Minister for the Interior for the proposed house. 
What was the value of the block of land on each occasion it was valued since 1950. 
I ask leave to make a statement on the same subject. 
 I  had a few notes on what I intended to say in this debate on the Estimates for the Department of Education and Science but I am prompted firstly to reply to some of the points raised by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who, it seemed to me, spoke about somehow or other acquiring an educational system on the cheap. He used expressions like 'What a bargain we have got', and went on to ask: 'Where else would we get the money'? I can offer him one suggestion. If the Government had not wasted all the money it has wasted on the Vietnam war it could have afforded a lot more money for education. 
And on the Fill and in all the other fields where money is thrown away in this country today. That point leads me to one comment I intended to make tonight. I represent the Australian Capital Territory and I have heard it said by honourable members on both sides of the House that in some way which is difficult to understand the Australian Capital Territory is favoured in education. The thinking behind that sort of remark is that this is so because all the school buildings are nice, just as all the houses here are nice - they are new, the trees are pretty and so on. But there cannot be any other part of Australia in which we hear and read more responsible protests, more complaints, more letters to the newspapers - here it is the 'Canberra Times' - and more petitions demanding that something be done about education. This is linked with the problem or the crisis in education throughout the country. I do not think it is because in any dramatic way the 
Australian Capital Territory is worse off than New South Wales, although in certain ways it is. This springs from the bureaucratic dependency on the New South Wales Department of Education. I could go further into this matter if I had the time. 
The real reason is that the Australian Capital Territory has something like 5 times the Australian average number of people with tertiary qualifications, or something like 5 times the average number with the leaving or equivalent certificate. These people did not get these qualifications by coming up through the Australian Capital Territory educational system. So it cannot be said: 'Well, that disposes of the criticism', because the Australian Capital Territory has been in existence for too short a period of time. Those are the figures, approximately 5 times the average number. The people have these qualifications because of the nature of this city, with its Public Service employment, the type of employment offered at the Australian National University, in the armed forces and in other institutions that require special skill, training and learning. When that kind of a population comes into an area like the Australian Capital Territory it has a very high expectancy, and quite properly so. In other words, these people do not set their standards low in an area such as that of education which is so important. That in part gives rise to the situation which prevails here. 
I will give honourable members some examples with which I am personally familiar of the attitude here. At 2 public meetings called in the last 12 months in this city on very short notice and proceeded by only one advertisement in the newspaper, the 'Canberra Times', the attendance reached overflow level at the Albert Hall. The estimated number of parents who attended on each occasion to protest about education in the Australian Capital Territory was something like 1,000. I hesitate to think how many Parents' and Citizens' Associations meet regularly in Canberra not just to discuss whether they can meet the tuckshop expenses but to protest vigorously about the teacher turnover, the low state of morale that exists in the schools here and matters of that sort. I was proud in a way, but also quite ashamed, when I received a letter a few months ago from Sth or 6th grade pupils in a primary school in Canberra. They wrote because the message had seeped down to them from their parents and from what was said in newspapers and in other was by which ideas are communicated that there will be no teachers for them in secondary school. These children are entitled to grow up in a world where they should not at the age of only 10 or 11 be worrying about their future. Of course what they were led to believe is wrong; of course there will be school teachers for them. But Deakin High School, for example had 23 forms for which there were 4 or more teachers for each subject during the last 7 or 8 months. 
What sort of a deal are we offering these children now in secondary school, who are moving on to the higher school certificate, with all the pressures that are imposed on young people these days to keep up with the Joneses and so on? These doubts are permeating the whole environment of the secondary school system and it is creeping into the primary school system. From a report released in Canberra the other day it is seen that the teacher turnover in primary schools is now similar to that which the secondary schools have had for some time. No-one is sure of the teacher turnover rate. I have seen figures which conservatively put it at about 13 per cent. I have also seen figures which put it as high as 20 per cent in Queanbeyan. Evidence was given before a Senate Select Committee by a  Mr Hughes  that the number of teachers leaving the service throughout Australia more than cancels out the gain from new teachers. What is bringing about this result? We cannot deny that this is happening. There is a complete misallocation of resources not only from the point of view of the lack of money, and there is a real failure to grasp the problem facing education and determine how it must be geared to the modern world. 
I come back now to priorities. One of the Australian Capital Territory Parents and Citizens Associations held a public meeting on 28th July and produced what are now the usual sort of recommendations or demands that something be done. Of course, honourable members on the other side of the House may say: 'The more we hear it the more they will become tired of saying it and like all things it will go away.' Even a snigger can run around this House from time to time because when one cries wolf often enough - or so it is hoped - less weight is attached to one's words. But the real situation in Canberra is that there is a widely felt crisis. This meeting saw fit to draw attention to the conflict in priorities in the calling up of young meu for national service and the necessity to recruit people into the teaching service. This meeting asked that I draw the attention of this House to the fact that it demanded that teachers and trainee teachers be exempted from national service. And why not? If we were to draw up a list of our priorities in view of the socalled danger to this country from invasion by foreign forces and bearing in mind the undoubted crisis in education, then if we must have a national service scheme, why not give exemption to teachers and trainee teachers? 
I finish with these thoughts: Education is not simply a matter of acquiring a skill or trade in order to earn money. Most people fulfil this objective because in order to get into their occupation they have to have an education. So the two things are related. But it is wider than that. Society produces its education system and the educational system in turn in some way tends to produce the society. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is just as much a product of the Australian society and Australian education system as we are, and we all remember the answer he gave to a question asked by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  relating to population and the environment. The Prime Minister quite frankly admitted to this House that he knew nothing of the problems now being discussed and which are widely regarded as of crucial importance to the future of mankind, the writings of people like Ehrlich and others, and simply said, by reference to some undergraduate experence that he had one day 30 years ago at the Sydney University: 'These things have been said before'. I finish on this note: The real crisis in education is that it can produce this kind of insular remark. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several Stale Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practicing educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underly it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty hound. will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to direct the attention of the House and particularly the attention of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  to a development that is taking place in the Australian Capital Territory which concerns the attempts of certain trading stamp companies to introduce their style of business into the Australian Capital Territory. I think the best way that I can explain this situation is to describe it as it happened to me. Some months ago I was approached by a service station proprietor in Canberra. I shall not mention the name of the oil company that owns his service' station. He expressed concern that considerable pressure was being put on him and other service station proprietors in Canberra, who also market the particular brand of petrol that he markets, to buy trading stamps from a particular company. 
Two trading companies are doing this sort of business. One operates under the name of Gold Seal and the other as Tiki Green Stamps. However, pressure was being put on him by the oil company of whom he is a lessee, and so he obviously is vulnerable. It was said that other service station proprietors also would take these stamps. However, they do not take them free; they have to buy them. He expressed the opinion that if he bought them it would add to his overhead a sum of perhaps $9,000 a year and that, in some way, he would either have to detract from the service that he offered to the people of Canberra or, possibly, it would have to be reflected in the price of petrol. Of course, honourable members know that petrol prices are not flexible and cannot reflect changes of this sort. But he said that there was widespread opposition among the service station proprietors in Canberra to the move. They were against it and a meeting was to be held. Initially it was thought that it would be a public meeting and it was hoped that I would be able to attend. I was asked later not to attend because of the possible effects this might have on the oil company concerned. I did not attend, but I was told that there was unanimous opposition to the move by the oil companies to introduce trading stamp operations in Canberra through these companies. I was told that these trading stamp companies have some kind of arrangement with the oil companies. 
I made some inquiries of my own and was told by other service station proprietors with whom I am on reasonable terms that they, too, were being put under pressure - persuasion might be a better word, although it has been described as standover tactics by at least one man to whom I spoke. Others have called it persuasion and have said: 'You cannot talk back because they are the big guns and we, too, will have to take the stamps'. The last proprietor I spoke with said that he had taken the stamps, installed the system and put all the signs out because it was put to him: This is a form of advertising and if you do not go on with it, other people will and then you will be the one to suffer, so you must get in on the act'. So, the whole thing grows like a snowball running downhill and getting out of control. 
I have been told that BP Australia Limited, which is associated in some way with Tiki Green Stamps, is actually subsidising its proprietors to the tune of SO per cent. In other words, the proprietors buy the stamps from the Tiki Green Stamp Company and BP says: 'You will not have to pay the whole bill. The company will weigh in with 50 per cent of what it costs you. It is advertising from your point of view and of course it is advertising from our point of view but you really have no choice.' Of course the upshot of it all is passed on to the consumer. 
The Australian Capital Territory, as we all know, is an island surrounded by New South Wales. To my understanding New South Wales is the only State in Australia where this practice is not banned, is not illegal in one way or another. The question as to whether it should be banned did come up for consideration in New South Wales early this year but it was not banned, although a limited reform was introduced to insist that these trading stamp companies, which are essentially parasitical, at least do give a cash value for the stamps so that the person who takes the stamps can redeem them if he wants to. All the inquiries I have made have indicated, however, that no-one ever exercises this right. They just get caught up in the system. 
In the other States, particularly Victoria, this practice has been banned, made illegal in essence, for the best part of 60 years. The last debate that I am familiar with was in the Victorian Parliament in about 1964 and dealt with closing a particular loophole that had been discovered in the law down there. I think the best 1 can do is to indicate the concern that was felt in Victoria, the concern I feel and the concern that I hope the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  will feel when I urge him to do something about this practice by means of an ordinance, and do it quickly. The Victorian Minister who handled the legislation was the  Hon.  R. J. Hamer who was then Minister for Immigration. At page 3804 of the Victorian Hansard,  Mr Hamer  said: 
More than 50 years ago, the Parliament of this State decided, in effect, that it would have nothing whatever to do wilh trading stamps . . . 
Later on he described the practice of these companies, of how they approach retailers and say: 'If you will buy these sheets of trading stamps from us, we will organise the whole thing for you; you will get extra customers; you will give a stamp with each purchase of goods, and we will take over the whole of the responsibility.' He went on to say: 
. experience in the United States of America and the United Kingdom, where these trading stamp schemes are at present in full blast, is that it adds something between 2 per cent and 4 per cent to the price of goods in the long run . . . 
That might not apply in the case of petrol - I appreciate that - because of the peculiar situation that exists in the petrol industry; but in other cases it certainly would apply. 
The Honourable J. M. Walton replied and moved an amendment, which was subsequently adopted with expressions of general agreement by the Minister, and described the practice as obnoxious and parasitical. At page 3959 of Victorian Hansard he quoted from a United Kingdom report. He said that the report stated: 
That the customer of a stamp trading shop is misled by the inducements held out into believing he is getting something for nothing, whereas in fact he may be paying very heavily for his purchase. . . . That the retailer is frequently unable to escape from the trading stamp system even though he may wish to do so. 

 Mr Walton also said: 
Once a retailer participates in it, he cannot 'get out from under' because his customers require a continuity of stamps, and if they cannot get them from him they will go somewhere else where they can obtain them. The trader fears that, if he ceases to issue the stamps, he will lose customers. 
Then  Mr Hamer  interjected and said: 
It is a case of the trader having a tiger by the tail. 

 Mr Walton went on to say:   . . trading stamp companies are essentially parasitic, providing no useful service to the community in return for the profit which they make. 
. That the system offers special temptations to fraud by ephemeral trading stamp companies. 
In conclusion, I earnestly hope that the Minister will take this matter under consideration because it is in its infancy in Canberra at the moment. It seems to have been inspired by the practice of the Mobil company in making use of one of the stamp companies in the price war it engaged in in Melbourne recently and which inspired the other 2 principal companies here in Canberra to embark on a similar campaign. If something is done soon the matter may be settled quickly. If this scheme is allowed to be established it may be too late to do anything because of the continuous nature of the scheme. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least five million dollars immediately, even if this entails reduced spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralization of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to inquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Was a draft ordinance prepared in 1959 providing for the registration of physiotherapists in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, was this draft ordinance revised in 1962. (3 Has the Minister received representations from physiotherapists in the Australian Capital Territory, the late  Mr J.  R. Fraser and myself requesting that an ordinance be introduced. 
What are the reasons for the delay and when will an ordinance be enacted. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
It is a fact that from time to time employees at the Commonwealth establishment at Pine Gap have received injuries that have arisen out of or in the course of their employment. 
If so, have these injuries given rise to claims for workers' compensation and delays occurred because insurance companies which have to consider these claims have had difficulty in obtaining permission for their claims assessors to enter Pine Gap. 
What procedures have to be followed before an insurance company claims assessor is permitted to enter Pine Gap. 
What is the average period of time that elapses between receipt of a request by an insurance claims assessor to enter Pine Gap and his being given permission to enter. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modem history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugeesin India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10,000,000 immediately, and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister  for  the Interior, upon notice: 
How many petrol service stations are operating in Canberra. 
What are the names of the oil companies who own these service stations and supply oil and petrol to them. 
What was the (a) date when each service station site was acquired, (b) name of the particular oil company concerned and (c) price paid for each site. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersignedrespectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10,000,000 immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system. 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments. 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are  represented  the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should undeline it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question to the Acting Prime Minister arises out of a question asked a short time ago by the right honourable member for Melbourne which the Acting Prime Minister did not answer in full. Is it a fact that approximately 18 months ago the then Prime Minister made a statement that the Australian Capital Territory was ready for a second seat? Is it also a fact that, at about the same time, but on a different occasion, the then Minister for the Interior made a similar statement? Has the population of the Australian Capital Territory increased by approximately 20.000 since that time? Were the statements made by the then Prime Minister and the then Minister for the Interior correct or incorrect? Will the right honourable gentleman tell the House when the Australian Capital Territory will have a second member in this House? 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
What area of land has been acquired by the Government for the development of the satellite city of Tuggeranong over the last 5 years. 
What was the value of this land on each occasion on which it was valued between 1950 and either the date it was acquired or now. 
Is it a fact that the Government is at present negotiating with the landowners over the price of the land still to be acquired. 
When was the attention of the Government first drawn to the fact that land would have to be acquired to develop Tuggeranong. 
Is it a fact that the price being asked by, the landowners is higher than the price the Commonwealth is prepared to pay because certain landowners have plans to subdivide and develop the land themselves for urban and semiurban purposes. 
When was the attention of the Government first drawn to these plans for private development. 
What price per acre is being asked by the landowners concerned. 
What reasons have been advanced by the landowners to support the prices being asked. 
Does a part of the price being asked cover the loss of the right to subdivide and develop privately; if so, what amount does this part of the price represent. 
Why was the land not acquired when its value was less than it is now and leased back to the occupiers until such time as the Government was ready to proceed with the development of Tuggeranong. 
Will the increased price that now has to be paid for the land be reflected in the reserve prices that will apply to land in Tuggeranong. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Which of the documents referred to in his answer to my, question No. 3871 (Hansard, 7th September 1971, page 890) contain the relevant police instructions, directions or advice that constables should follow in relation to an accused person during the time that that person is in custody after having been arrested and before he is released on bail. 
Have any of the documents containing these instructions, directions or advice been altered or revised in any way since 1st January 1970. 
If so, what alterations or revisions have been made. 
Has Instruction No. 16 in the Police General Orders and Instruction Manual been amended or altered in any way since 1st January 1970. 
What are the full terms and text of the present police instructions or advice regarding fingerprinting of persons in custody. 
asked the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Is a code of criminal laws for the Australian Capital Territory being prepared by the Attorney General's Department. 
If so, does the proposed code effect substantial changes to many of the existing criminal laws of the Territory. 
Are many of the changes related to matters of punishment and other serious controversial questions such as the kind of behaviour which should or should not be regarded as criminal. 
Will he give an assurance that the code when it is introduced will be introduced by Bill and not by Ordinance and that there will be ample time allowed forit to be considered before being debated. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is great need for the reform of the administrative law. 
Is it also a fact that the AttorneyGeneral commissioned a committee consisting of  Mr Justice  Kerr,  Mr Justice  Mason, the Solicitor General  (Mr Ellicott)  and Professor Whitmore of the Australian National University, known as the Commonwealth Administrative Law Review Committee, to report on administrative law reforms. 
If so, when was the report completed and forwarded to the AttorneyGeneral. 
Will the AttorneyGeneral table the report, publish it or otherwise make it available for inspection. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
How many determinations have been made under section 42a of the Naval Defence Act during (a) 1968, (b) 1969, (c) 1970 and (d) 1971, to date. 
Have any arrangements been made to make these determinations available to employees and associations of employees during any and each of the years since 1968; if not, why not. 
If determinations have not been made available will arrangements be made as soon as possible to make them available. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth. 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a seals unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position andwealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10,000,000 immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 Mr Acting Speaker,  because of the disturbance in the unsettled moments that have just passed I am not sure which Bill we are debating but if it is a cognate debate on the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Bill (No. 2) and the Northern Territory Supreme Court Bill, I wish to say a few words. The Opposition does not oppose these Bills which result from, or rather were prompted by, a decision of the High Court of Australia this year in a case which is known colloquially as Capital TV Stores and Falconer in which it was pointed out, odd as it may sound, that the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory and the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory are not Federal courts. That seems to be a conflict of language. But the consequence of it was that the judges of those courts need not have life tenure as envisaged by chapter III of the Constitution. 
Going along with that, there has been of course for a long while in the Australian Capital Territory a very great need tor law reform in a number of areas. The Supreme Court has seen its lists lengthen from a very short, almost nominal period, a year or so ago into a period that is still perhaps good by State standards, but now has lengthened I understand, to 9 or 10 months. This ha seen the demand grow for a third residential judge. One of the points sought to be achieved by this Bill is the appointment of such a judge so we will have a bench here of 3 judges. It was only a few months ago that the Government introduced an amendment to the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act providing for a second residential judge, but it was really on the pretext, I would suggest, that the Government had committed itself to having a law reform commissioner for the Australian Capital Territory who would have the status of a Supreme Court judge. The judge who has been appointed has not in fact become a sitting judge performing very much work but rather is a law reform commissioner. One wonders why the 2 steps that have now been taken - the amending Bill earlier in the year and the amending Bill now before the House- could not have been consolidated into a single reforming measure. But the step has been taken and we support it. 
The Bill contains other provisions. For example, it creates a situation where certain types of cases can be referred to a full court of 3 judges if it is thought wise that this should happen. It also confers power, to be exercised through the making of rules of the Supreme Court, for the conferring of delegated power on the Registrar of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. This in itself is a step which was taken years and years ago in the States, which have either registrars, masters or court officials of different names. Again there can be no objection to this provision. Some comment can however be made about it. The Bill also contains provisions for the exercise of disciplinary power over legal practitioners in the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. To that again there can be no objection. The Bill makes provision in certain types of cases for evidence to be given by affidavit. Subject to certain safeguards, one can have reservations about some aspects of it; but it is a step that nas been deemed necessary. 
The only points I wish to make are these: With regard to the 3 judges we say: Good, They are necessary. They have been necessary for a long, long time'. We still have our other judges who come from the Commonwealth Industrial Court in Sydney from time to time. We welcome the additional residential judge but we also say that it is high time that the Government did something about improving the appellate structure that should be erected over the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. There is great difficulty in getting to the High Court. We have no intermediate court of appeal. The High Court, as it is often said, is a long way from Canberra wherever it happens to sit. It has its rules which make it difficult to get there. 
A lot of newspaper publicity was given not long ago to some decisions of a particular judge which were given in running down cases or, if they were not running down cases, they were claims for damages for personal injuries. Something like 6 out of 7 or it may have been 7 out of  8  awards of damages fell below the payment into court. Of course one does not know what conclusion to draw from that. It might be that the payment into court was too high. It might have been the error of the defending solicitors. On the other hand it might have been that the judge made an error. But the difficulty in which a litigant in the Australian Capital Territory finds himself is: What do I do about it if I want to do anything at all, the High Court being as far away as it is? 
There is a great need here for a system of appeals from the decision of a single judge either to a full court or to an intermediate court of appeal such as the Commonwealth superior court which was at one time envisaged. No-one seems to know at this stage what happened to those proposals for a Commonwealth superior court. They were put forward many years ago. They were welcomed, as I recall, by legal writers on the subject throughout the country. The Government seems to have lost interest or, if not interest, certainly enthusiasm for the project. But we would suggest seriously that there is great merit in the idea of a Commonwealth superior court for a number of reasons. The first I have already given, namely, the remoteness of the High Court. Another one is this: There is need for the Commonwealth sphere of influence in law, whether it be in the Australian Capital Territory or in the other area where the Commonwealth legal writ, if one can call it that, runs - in the Northern Territory - to have a degree of uniformity and to have as much influence as possible over the States so that this system of different categories, this system of different classifications, that all too often exists, where you find hardship and injustice occasionally resulting from the Federal system as it exists at the moment, can be overcome. A Commonwealth superior court we suggested could move a long way in the direction of effecting reforms. 
The delegation of powers to the Registrar is something that exists in most State superior courts; but one thought springs to mind. These matters that will be referred to the Registrar will apparently be at the discretion of the judges because the judges will make the rules of court. One can expect a high standard, and one would hope for a high standard from those judges because they are superior court judges, as to what they give to the registrar and what they do not give to the registrar. There is to be a system of appeal from the decision of the registrar to the Supreme Court. But if the registrar is to exercise these judicial powers to a far greater extent than he has exercised them in the past, he should be at least rewarded adequately for that job. My understanding is that the masters of the Supreme Court of New South Wales are remunerated at approximately the salary of New South Wales District Court judges. I am not sure of the precise figure but I think it is about $19,000 a year. I think - I cannot put it any higher than that - that the Registrar of this court is on the equivalent salary of a principal legal officer, which is a little more than $12,000 a year. One might say that this is an example of failure to think out in advance the duties which should be performed by people and the way in which they should be paid for performing those duties. This gentleman will be carrying out judicial responsibilities that certainly would deserve greater rewards than his present salary, one would think. 
I have nothing to say about the disciplinary powers over lawyers. I have nothing to say about the matter of the 3 judges. Apparently complete discretion is given to a judge to send to 3 judges matters where there are important issues of law or that he presumably considers to be important issues of law for their consideration. One would hope that, although it is not in the nature of an appeal as I read the Bill, it would obviate some of the risk taken in trying to go to the High Court, which as I said before, is a long way away. It does not make up for the lack of an intermediate court of appeal, but it might soften the hardship that is felt in some ways. It would not overcome, for example, the situation I described a moment ago of errors of fact, if they are errors of fact, made by a trial judge where there is no appeal from him to anyone other than the High Court, with its natural and understandable reluctance to interfere. 
I think those are the principal points I wish to make except to add a few thoughts which I hope are relevant to the issue, because this is an example of law reform. We hear a lot these days about the motor car and the courts. The newspapers, particularly in the Australian Capital Territory, have been full of comment about a recent scholarly work that issued out of the Australian National University by Professor Butlin and  Dr Troy  on the cost of motor car collisons to the Australian community. We all know that a lot of work has been done on this matter overseas - in New Zealand, the United States of America and other parts of the world. My understanding is that in the Supreme Court of New South Wales approximately 90 per cent of trial cases, cases of nisi prius, are made up of running down cases. There is a long standing criticism in that State that this is an exercise that is not really worthy of the lawyers' talents - that lawyers, with their developed expertise of probing and analysing facts, upend too much lime on the resolution of conflicts that really should not be conflicts at all. They should be taken up in some wider framework of social insurance. 
If the figure is 90 per cent in New South Wales, it certainly is not 90 per cent in the Australian Capital Territory. There is good reason for that. In the Australian Capital Territory there is no intermediate court such as the district court. The Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory hears appeals that would be called quarter sessions appeals in New South Wales. Until recently, it heard all manner of small building cases and disputes over contracts that would often be heard in another court in New South Wales and would account for the supreme court being taken up excessively with running down cases because they tend to produce the big verdicts. Lawyers, not unnaturally, believe that with a jury system, as operating in New South Wales, and with judges accustomed to thinking in big terms they will receive more from a supreme court judge and jury than they would receive from a district court judge and jury. 
This is a serious matter that bears thinking about. Somehow or other, the question should be faced: Should the motor car be taken out of the courts? Of course, it cannot be taken out of the courts when criminal litigation is involved. But should it be taken out of the courts so far as civil litigation is concerned? It might be an unpopular move for lawyers. A lot of lawyers who do common law work of that sort would immediately react and say 'You are reducing our means of income', and things of that sort. But I do not really believe that myself because lawyers have always turned their minds, their talents and their industry to other projects which are worth while. One could think of many areas where they could put their skills to use. The Tariff Board is one that springs to mind. But the matter is surely one that calls for serious thought. 
I think they are the points that I wish to make about this matter. The suggestion is - and 1 know that I am only using this debate as a vehicle to put the suggestion forward - that the Government give serious consideration to the question of taking motor car cases involving civil litigation out of the courts. We recognise the other parts of the Bills as being made necessary by the High Court decision. I have put forward a suggestion about the increased role and the increased responsibility that will be carried by the Registrar of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. If he is to do the work that is done by Masters in New South Wales, or shall we say by the Prothonotary in New South Wales, he certainly deserves to be treated on the same plane. In all other respects, the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
 I agree with the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who have spoken on the amendment. The amendment, however, does touch on a subject that is of increasing concern amongst writers. Wigmore has been mentioned. I will not be very long and will not take up much of the time of the Committee. People as eminent as Pro fessor Cross are of course moving in a direction - I think there is danger in this - where accused persons need not have the protections we have traditionally given them. I am mindful of what, I think, is contained in the Evidence Act of the Australian Capital Territory. This is the piece of interim legislation which began its life as an Ordinance, was disallowed, and has now been re-enacted as an Act. I believe that in that piece of legislation there is an enactment, for example, that permits a judge to comment on the refusal of an accused person to give sworn evidence. I may be wrong, but that is my understanding of the position as I speak here without the facts in front of me. 
As I said, I think there is great danger. This is a step away from the traditional sense of values that have been referred to by both of the previous speakers in this debate. We hear plaintive cries about the rise in the crime wave and things of this sort, that we give too much protection to the accused person and that we equate the accused person time after time with a criminal. We should never forget that he is not a criminal; he is an accused person. These are traditional values, conservative values if you like, but good values. 
Yes, I use the word conservative'. That is a radical thought for me. But I am prepared to use it in this context because it is terribly important. I could well imagine a crown prosecutor, for example- 
Not really. I can imagine a crown prosecutor in a situation where someone has given evidence against an accused in, say, a set of committal proceedings, and then for some reason or other is not available at the trial- although it would not satisfy the requirements that are already built into our legislation - saying that a simple affidavit might cure the problem. He might want to say: 'Well, why should not I go before a judge and say, "look, the accused had the opportunity to cross-examine this man before a magistrate - what harm can come from it"?' I run into this argument from time to time. I do not know whether honourable members opposite have run into it. But there is great danger in this sort of situation because we all know that committal proceedings are run with a different end in view. The tactics are different. Our adversary system of justice is not an inquisitorial system; it does not seek to find out what actually happened - it seeks to give a fair go. 
If we have a committal proceeding with an accused person represented, but following a course in which he wants to create a certain situation there, and commit a person to a certain account of fact, he might not cross-examine in a way he intends to cross-examine subsequently before a judge or jury. So great danger can come if one is then to pick up those depositions and say: Look, no harm can come if we used this evidence in chief, tested as it was by crossexamination against the fellow in his trial on indictment', because great danger can come. It might not have been tested properly at all for good reason, no-one knowing at that time that later the opportunity for cross-examination would be taken away. So it is a delicate job of balancing interests - it must be. But surely the paramount interest must always be in cases of this sort the accused person. I agree with the amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are any plans being considered to control or reduce the excessive smoke which sometimes issues from the chimney of the Canberra Community Hospital. 
If not, will he ensure that steps are taken to reduce this excessive emission. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Does his Department control a fund for welfare purposes; if so, what is the limit of the fund. 
How many claims were made on the fund during each of the last 6 years, what was the amount of each claim, and for what purposes were the claims made. 
How many social workers are employed by his Department in the Australian Capital Territory to perform the work of advising and giving assistance to immigrants. 
How does his Department determine the stage at which a person seeking welfare assistance should not seek it as an immigrant but should seek it as a non-immigrant and, in consequence, should direct his inquiries to the Department of the Interior. 
Does his Department publicise the fact that it offers a welfare service to immigrants in Canberra; if so, what form does that publicity take. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What professional, technical or other courses offered by the Canberra College of Advanced Education are not recognised for qualification purposes by certain Government Departments and instrumentalities such as the Bureau of Mineral Resources. 
Which Departments do not recognise these qualifications and what is the reason for this. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the growing practice of certain service station proprietors in Canberra being required by oil companies to purchase trading stamps and to offer these stamps to their customers. 
Can he say whether this practice has been declared illegal in all States, except New South Wales, because of the unfair exploitation that it encourages. 
Will the Government take immediate steps to make the practice illegal in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the First Assistant Secretary referred to in the statement of the Attorney-General on 14th May 1969, as having been detached from his normal duties so that he could prepare a statement setting out the present position of the law in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and what changes are involved if recommendations made by the Law Council of Australia on the enactment of a Criminal Code for the Commonwealth Territories are adopted, yet commenced his work on the statement. (2)If the statement hag been prepared, when was it completed and will the Attorney-General make it available to Members. (3)If it has not been prepared, when is completion expected and will it then be made available to Members. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1) What matters have been referred to the Law Reform Commission for the Australian Capital Territory for investigation and/or report. 
When is the Commission expected to deliver its first report. 
Will the Attorney-General refer the proposed draft criminal code for the Commonwealth Territories to the Commission for investigation and report; if not. why not. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will inthe foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralization of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies: 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will  ever  pray. 
Petition received. 
T present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least 510,000,000 immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
What arrangements are made to issue hard-hats to members of the Royal Australian Navy and to officers of his Department who are employed casually in hazardous situations. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the population of the Australian Capital Territory is increasing at about 9 per cent per annum compound. 
Did his predecessor state on 20th August 1970 that the Government believed that we may well have reached the time when there is need for extra representation for the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, is the Government taking any steps for making any preparation to create a second seat for the Australian Capital Territory in the House of Representatives. 
If steps are being taken, what are they. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Australian Capital Territory has no legislation making it compulsory to install and use safety chains on trailers and caravans; of so, why. 
Was a man killed in Campbell in the Australian Capital Territory on 27th September 1971 in an accident involving a trailer and was the man's death partly the result of a trailer not being secured by safety chains. 
When will legislation be introduced to ensure that trailers and caravans are required  to  be secured properly with safety chains. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the A.C.T. respectfully showeth: 
That the A.C.T. Pharmacy Ordinances 1931- 1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance ... for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted from Sub-section fi) of Section 46 of the A.C.T. Pharmacy Ordinances. 
And y,our petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I give notice that at the next day of sitting I will move that a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the proposed draft criminal code for the Commonwealth Territories. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the 1st March 1971 issue of the periodical produced by the American Chamber of Commerce in Australia and distributed by the United States Embassy in Canberra which states that Australian Government experiencein dealing with restrictive trade practices is still in its infancy; if so, what is the Government's attitude to this statement. 
Is it a fact that restrictive trade practices have been known to exist in Australia for many years and have been criticised for many years as being harmful to the Australian Commonwealth. 
Is the Government's experience in this field still in its infancy. 
If so, does this result from Australia having no effective legislation to deal with restrictive trade practices and also from the refusal of the Government to gain experience by attempting to control many of the practices. 
asked the Minister for the 
Navy, upon notice: 
Whatwork hasbeen declared, by notice published in the Commonwealth Gazette, to be of a civiladministrative or civilclerical nature forthe purposes of Section 42of the NavalDefence Act? 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
How much control over forestry operations and associated conservation problems can the Commonwealth Government exercise through its powers to control exports. 
To what extent is the Government prepared to exercise these or other powers to ensure that projects for export chipped or pulped wood are planned and executed so as to best conserve the national environment. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies: 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances 1931-1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that a person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or other wise; to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance ... for preventing conception. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the wordsor for preventing conception be deleted from Sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances. And your petitioners, as in duty bound willever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully sheweth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system. 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several Stale Government Departments. 
That the Australian Capital Territory is  a  homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that  a  Committee of Inquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underly it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That the Education Ordinance 1971, No. 28 of 1971, made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1970 be disallowed. 
I also give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That the amendment to Regulation 6 of the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Fares Regulations as contained in Regulation 1971, No. 7, made under the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Services Ordinance 1955-1970 of the Australian Capital Territory be disallowed. 
The Restrictive Trade Practices Bill is an important piece of legislation. It is important not because of what it seeks to do but because of what it does not seek to do. The subject with which it deals is the restrictive trade practices which exist in the Australian business community today. I have asked myself why it is an important piece of legislation. I think its importance flows from the fact that it relates to one of the relatively few levers or devices that the Commonwealth Government has with which to influence the Australian business community. The Commonwealth Government has to exercise control over tariffs, taxation, social services and other matters. It also has to exercise control over restrictive trade practices. 
A very important role is played in the Australian community by the big corporations. The decisions they make affect everyone. In many cases they make decisions which are more far-reaching and more important than the decisions of this House or of this Parliament. A course which the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd decides to follow with regard to its steel production is often more pervasive, influential and even destructive than anything this House may do. General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd can do the same thing. So can many corporations. It boils down to this: These corporations exercise power in much the same way asthis House exercises power or tries to exercise it. The difference, of course, is that when this House or this Parliament tries to exercise power it does so publicly. Our actions are scrutinised. The Press criticises us and our constituents write to us. We are influenced by what they say. We are ultimately responsible to them through the ballot box and so on. But the big corporations are not responsible to anyone for the decisions that they make. They are not responsible to anyone for decisions they make to institute price control or to divide up on industry. The decisions they make are made in board rooms behind closed doors. No-one can shine a torch in and say: 'Why are you doing it? Is it in the interests of the shareholders or only of yourselves as private bureaucrats?' Although a decision is made which conflicts with the interests of the Australian community no-one can question that decision because it is made in the interests of such things as maximising profit and providing security for the business. That is one reason why I regard any restrictive trade practices legislation as being of great importance. 
The decision of a large corporation to put up prices could start a chain reaction. It could result in employee organisations replying in kind with the statement: 'Prices have gone up. We will have to match those increases with a wage demand'. The decision by a trade union to put forward a wage demand could result in fears being expressed of the likelihood of industrial unrest. Government could then move in and use any industrial unrest for its own purposes.  All these things  flow back to the original decision taken by a body which is exercising great power in the community but which is not responsible to anyone. Those are some of the reasons why restrictive trade practices legislation is important to me. 
I think it is well known and probably would be agreed to by everyone here that the Australian community is one of the most highly concentrated industrial and commercial communities in the world. This has been said by many people over many years, ft is comparable in many ways to the German community and even the Japanese and American communities. Yet we have had almost no experience of restrictive trade practices legislation. The Canadians and the Americans introduced this type of legislation back in the 1880s. The collective experience of those communities is enormous, but we have had almost no experience. A few months ago I saw an article in a journal which is put out by the American Chamber of Commerce and which was released through the American Embassy that made the very point that the Australian Government had had almost no experience in the field of restrictive trade practices legislation. Why has it had not had much experience? Because the Government does not really care. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  spoke of the actions of the Government in kind and gentle terms, but I do nol feel inclined to be quite so kind and gentle. I am not angry with the Government, but how can f be kind to it for what it has done? The real explanation for why the Government has not done anything about trying to solve the restrictive trade practice problems which exist in the Australian community is either because it does not care or because the Government reflects the business and economic interests of the people who support it and those people do not want this action to be taken. We had the Australian Industries Preservation Acf. in force for a long while, but the provisions of that Act were limited, ft had great potential, but it had at least one fatal flaw which was not cured for a long while and when it was cured it was too late. Why was if too lats? Because the legal profession had ignored it for many years. 
In about 1960, as a result of an increasing demand by economists, publicists, politicians, investors and other people who had a social conscience, the Australian Government began to think that it had to do something in the field of restrictive trade practices. The first mumblings about something having to be done were heard in about 1960. In about 1962 what are now referred to as the Barwick proposals were put forward. These proposals were prepared in an exhaustive manner by one of the best legal brains the country has produced -  Sir Garfield  Barwick, now Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia. At the time he produced his proposals he was a man who had already had a great deal of political, experience.  His  proposals were laid before the Australian community for examination, discussion and debate. As I recall it, they excited great attention and great, respect. However, they were much too hot for the Government to handle. For that reason the Government left them alone. But the Government could not get away from those proposals because they had already excited enough attention and the demands for their implementation were snowballing. In about the middle of 1965 the present Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  who was then the Attorney-General, introduced what is in substance the Bill we are considering tonight, leaving aside for the moment the amendments which were made in the other place. That legislation was described at the time as a compromise, lt was a recognition by the Government that it could no longer put off doing something about this problem. But it was also a recognition by the Government that it would not do anything which would offend its supporters or backers. In other words, the Government said that it would not introduce legislation which had real teeth in it, and it did not. 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  has pointed out that the legislation which was declared invalidin the concrete pipes case really had very little effect at all. The Government had abandoned the Australian Industries Preservation Act and it had- abandoned much of the Barwick proposals, lt ponded for a register which was secret but which produced very rapidly a list of examinable agreements - something like 13,000. As  Mr Bannerman,  the Commissioner of Trade Practices, had a limited staff at his disposal he was examining only a very small number of cases - something like 15 or perhaps 20  -  annually. That type of examination would have gone on forever if the old scheme of things had continued. I am not saying that cases did not come to the attention of the Trade Practices Tribunal nor am I saying that some negotiations did not achieve a small measure of success, but by and large it was just a joke. Eventually the High Court came along and said that the old legislation was invalid for other reasons. Fortunately for the people of Australia it said that the Corporations power of the Commonwealth was far more extensive than had hitherto been thought. 
The Government has now come along with this piece of holding legislation and has more or less said: 'We will not at this stage use the great power which has been given to us. We will defer using it. It is a difficult and complex power'. The Government says that it is going to use this power eventually, but I have grave doubts as to its real intentions in this regard. I say that openly. Only time will tell what propositions the Government puts before the Parliament. To come to what the High Court said about the possibilities and potential open to this Commonwealth Government, the Government has introduced a holding 
Bill limited to corporations, leaving aside the question of incidental power and things of that sort in the Constitution. This Bill  in itself  does nothing. It validates certain findings and certain orders of the Tribunal which was set up. 1 would like to come back and repeat for. consideration by honourable members some of the words that were used by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  when he spoke in this House on 7th September. He, of course, has had as much experience in this field as anyone. He was at the relevant time the AttorneyGeneral. I understand that he is going out of politics. He was counsel in the case concerned. In drawing attention to the concrete pipes case on 7th September the honourable member stressed that it was a decision with momentous consequences for our future as a nation. He went on to say that this Government had been criticised for doing too little. He. said there was a danger of its becoming like the Liberals in the United Kingdom hack in the early years of the century, proceeding towards social . reform with - noisy mouths and mouse-like feet. That was a lovely expression. I can only hope, and certainly honourable members on this side of the House also hold this hope, that that, prognosis is not going to be borne out, because the whole history of this Government suggests that it is going to be borne out - proceeding towards, social reform with noisy mouths and mouse-like feet. I have never anywhere read or heard of any Government spokesman uttering any claim or any thought of what the Government has in mind about the problem of restrictive trade practices in the Austraiian community. We hear it from honourable members on this side. We hear from publicists and from writers in learned journals that this is a particular menace, this has to be watched or that this type of behaviour will produce this kind of result. But 1 have never heard or read of anyone, including the Minister representing the Attorney-General, saying that there is great social mischief in this community, that it requires attention, that we are going to do something about it. This has never been said at any stage as far as 1 am aware. 
In the case of resale price maintenance it was left to the Australian Council of 
Trade Unions to take the steps which it took in Melbourne with the acquisition of Bourke's store to force the Government's hand. If the Government tries to wriggle out from under with a sort of ex post fac'o explanation of what it did when it belatedly introduced that legislation I seriously suggest that not only will no-one else believe the Government but also that it should not believe itself, because its hand was forced. The Government had no choice in the matter, the criticisms come from outside. The Government never puts forward criticism in this area. It never puts forward any proposal for reform. T do not think it will put forward any on this occasion because in the second reading speech of the Minister representing the Attorney-General one will not find such a proposal. 
The' Minister talked about introducing strengthening legislation to take advantage of the power given by the decision in the concrete pipes  ca&amp;e,  the extended power under the corporation section, section 51. But where is there any recognition that any problem exists? You will not find it anywhere. So why should we be optimistic about this? All that we can keep doing is to prod the Government and protest in the hope not that its conscience will in some way alter its future record, but that the Australian community will get the message in some way and realise that the record speaks for itself, that people should be judged on what they do, not on what they do not say while simply getting on the bandwaggon and trying to take advantage of the situation. 
Australia has a very high degree of concentration of economic power. This power is not responsible to anyone. It is power that is exercised often against the interests of the Australian community. Anyone who has ever studied the problem knows this. In the United States volumes have been written about it in the works of Kefauver  and  many others. Yet we have to recognise that in 1971 this Government's experience  in  this terribly important field is still in its infancy. It is a scandal, as the honourable member for Cunningham has said, that we should even have the situation that at this stage there is no law on restrictive trade practices. It is of  no  use blaming the High 
Court. That section has been in the Constitution since 1900. At this stage we have no law on this subject. The Government has come along and said: 'Here is a holding law and we will give you something more forceful soon.' But there is no indication as to what it will be. This is true to the Government's form. 
One can only hope that when the Bill gets to that other place, the Senate, the thinking there will be the same as that which was expressed once before. One can only hope that some deal or some assurance has not been exchanged by the various interests affected in that other place. One can see it in this way: If those amendments that, went through in the Senate strengthen this Bill, here is the Government again seeking to emasculate it. Here is the Government again saying that in some way these amendments are inconsistent. How are they inconsistent with the Bill? The Government has a Bill which, was once dependent upon accepting transfers of power from the States and using the other powers in the Constitution but now it relies entirely on Commonwealth corporation power. Tn both cases it was unworkable in practice, lt has been introduced in the knowledge that it is unworkable in practice. The Government now has the nerve to come along and say: 'We do not like these amendments made in the Senate. They will make it unworkable.' They make it unworkable all right. They alter the style. Those amendments give to this unworkable Bill some teeth so that it is unworkable in the sense in which the Government wanted it, namely to do nothing. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
How does the ratio between student enrolment in private schools and public schools in the Australian Capital Territory compare with the  ratio in each  of the States and  in  the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many subject matters are there which are the subject  of  legislation by the Commonwealth Parliament and are the responsibility of the Commonwealth Parliament other than those which can be exercised under section 122 of the Commonwealth Constitution. 
How many subject matters are there which, are the subject of legislation in the Australian Capital Terrilory, other than those referred to in part (I) of the question. 
Can he say how many subject, matters there are, other than those referred to in part (1) of the question, which can be made the subject  of  legislation in the Australian Capital Territory and which are the subject of legislation at State  or  municipal level in the Stale of New South Wales. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice:  (!) Did the 1971 Census indicate that there are over 140,000 people in Canberra. 
Are there only (a) 7 libraries for children, (b) 6 libraries combining facilities for both adults and children and (c) 1 mobile library unit in Canberra for the purpose of serving the people of Canberra. 
How many books are in each of these libraries. 
Are any surveys or estimates available to indicate the number of libraries necessary to adequately serve the needs of the people of Canberra. 
If so, does this information indicate that the library services of Canberra adequately serve the population. 
What Library services exist for the residents of (a) the Woden Valley, (b) Belconnen and (c) Weston Creek. 
When will full library facilities be provided for each of those areas. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the community of the Australian National University respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters on to higher education. 
That al) education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships 
Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability 
Abolition of tertiary fees 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogenous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Commitee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underly it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I direct my question to the Prime Minister. My question arises out of certain answers which the Prime Minister gave to questions he was asked last night during the Australian Broadcasting Commission television programme 'Monday Conference'. During the programme the Prime Minister indicated that he saw no prospect of introducing a Bill for a proposed criminal code for Commonwealth Territories during this sitting of Parliament. The right honourable gentleman went on in answer to another question to say that he did not know about the proposal relating to Commonwealth Territories, and in particular the Australian Capital Territory, that he had not heard of it before and that he could not give an answer to the question which had been asked of him. My question is this: In view of the answer given by the AttorneyGeneral in the Senate on 10th November that he intended to introduce such a code as a Bill early next year, will the right honourable gentleman tell us what the true position is, and whether we can expect such a Bill during this sitting of Parliament, early next year or not at all? 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory moving forthwith the motion relating to the appointment of a select committee to inquire into and report upon the proposed draft criminal code for tha Commonwealth Territories of which he gave notice on 25th November 1971. 
The problem implicit in any motion of this sort is not to breach the rule that requires an honourable member to confine himself to being relevant as to why standing orders should be suspended. I shall simply try to comply with that rule and will not say or adduce any arguments as to why the provisions of that draft criminal code should be referred to a select committee of this House. However I say that it is necessary to give a short resume of what this Bill is all about and the history of it so as to persuade honourable members that it is important that this be done at this stage 3 days from the end of this sessional period. 
The proposed draft code has its origin in negotiations that were entered into in 1964 between the then Attorney-General,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, and the executive commit'ee of the Law Council of Australia. That private body of eminent lawyers worked on the code through subcommittees, and also through conferences which were largely conducted in secret. Eventually they produced a booklet with which some honourable members may be familiar, although I suspect that many honourable members are not yet familiar .with it. The booklet is the 'Draft Criminal Code for the Australian Territories' and it was tabled in this House in May 1969 by the then Attorney-General who is now the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  The significance of the publication is this: If, in substance what is contained in the booklet ever becomes the criminal code for the Commonwealth Territories, it will replace all existing criminal laws. It will replace our common law of crime and laws of that sort. This is the first thing of significance about the code. 
This is because the proposed code will be all embracing. It will apply in the Australian Capital Territory which has approximately 150,000 people; it will presumably apply to the Northern Territory which has approximately 70,000 people of whom 20,000 are Aboriginals who have a different way of life from our own. It will also presumably apply to the Territory of Papua New Guinea whose people again have a different culture and different problems. I remind the House that  2i  million people live in that Territory. The code will apply to the residents of Christmas Island, who number 3,500. In addition it will apply to various other islands and lands which make up Commonwealth Territories. 
Another thing that has to be said is this: To understand why the matter should be considered at this stage and to appreciate properly what is involved one has to understand what are the criminal laws of the various Territories at this time. The Australian Capital Territory, for example, draws its criminal law almost entirely from New South Wales, or the New South Wales criminal law as it was in 1911. The Northern Territory draws its criminal law from South Australian criminal law and to that extent its law is different from what exists in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. The Territory of Papua New Guinea draws its criminal law in a different way from the criminal code of Queensland. So it is different again. My researches have not been able to reveal from where Christmas Island, Antarctica or Cocos Island draw their criminal law. However, I would presume that Norfolk Island has the criminal law of New South Wales. 
What does the code contain? It deals as one would expect the code to deal with the law of theft, violent crimes, the law of property, laws against morality, laws with respect to public order, laws dealing with dignity of this Parliament and all manner of criminal laws of that kind. One of the most important areas of the code concerns itself with the technical areas of criminal law. They have nothing to do with the controversial subjects of abortion, homosexuality and attempted suicide; and what we call the subjects of moral law that so often spring to everybody's mind when one talks about law reform these days. This code goes beyond all of those things. They are an important part of it, but they are a small part. The greater part of the proposed code deals with the traditional areas of the law such as theft, property, violence, the protection of human life and things of that sort. In doing that the code attempts to deal with the all important mental element in crime. 
The procedures of this House with its so called 'gag' and 'guillotine' procedures, the time limits imposed on members and the tendency for honourable members to vote almost invariably on party lines on many issues make it impossible to debate a code as extensive as this, a code that has something like 226 sections in it. That is at the moment without any provision for punishment or penalties at all. It runs to something like 120 pages in booklet form. Honourable members must realise that it will be quite impossible to consider such code in this House by the procedures under which we operate. I come back to the mental element in crime. Our common law developed over hundreds and hundreds of years and it projected and reflected the Christian ethic that people should not be punished for things that they were not aware of doing or things that they did not intend to do or for things of which they had no knowledge or where there was a mistake. This code, if it is enacted, will make radical departures from that principle. I refer here to what is called in the code a 'culpable mental state'. It states that a whole range of crimes thai carry punishments for less than 12 months will not require any mental element for the crime to exist. That is a very radical change in the law. It may be good and it may be bad; I do not wish to canvass it at the moment although I have strong doubts about it. The code tinkers and fiddles with the law of attempted suicide; it tinkers and fiddles with the law of theft; and it tinkers and fiddles with all sorts of other serious branches of the law. 
There is great uncertainty as to what the Government intends to do about the code. I would like to illustrate that statement in this way. When the then Attorney-General introduced the proposed code back in May 1969 he made a speech in which he dew attention to the fact. that the code had been prepared by eminent men. That, of course, is not enough. Eminent men outside this House do not make our laws. Laws for Commonwealth Territories, as indeed laws for the whole country, are made here. It is not enough to simply abdicate responsibility and say: 'Oh, something prepared by someone else outside this House was made by an eminent man; we will accept it automatically'. That is what the AttorneyGeneral has suggested should be done when he was questioned about the problem in the Senate on 10th November this year. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has questioned the Attorney-General about the possibility of having the proposed criminal code referred to a committee. The Attorney-General seemed to reply: 'No'. To put this matter fully, the Attorney-General, in the course of his reply, said: 
It is my present intention that next year there shall be introduced a criminal code for the Australian Capita) Territory. 
The Attorney-General has since been reported in the Press as having said: 'Early next year'. The newspapers commented on this and as far as I am aware the AttorneyGeneral has ever denied the suggestion that the date will be early next year. 
Three or 4 weeks ago in reply to a question on notice that I put to the AttorneyGeneral, he gave an answer to the effect that it was too late to refer the proposed code to the Law Reform Commission of the Australian Capital Territory because the drafting of the proposed Bill had reached such an advanced stage of development that no good, in effect, could come from referring the ma'ter to a committee and it was too late to consider such a thing. This answer confirms the suspicion that the Government is going to introduce the Bill fairly soon. If one stops there and repeats that it is not a suitable piece of legislation to be debated in this House on party lines, one would also advance the argument that the abortion issue alone should not be a party issue; the homosexuality issue is probably not a party issue; the mental element in all crimes - over and above regulatory crimes - is probably not a party issue; the tinkering and fiddling with the law of theft and the tinkering and fiddling with (he law of assault and the tinkering and fiddling with the defence of insanity which will probably rule out the defence of what lawyers call non insane automatism should not be a party matter. The danger is that these makers will be presented and there will be no opportunity for honourable members lo consider the provisions adequately or vote on non-party lines. There will be no opportunity here. Experience proves that surely it is a ma'ter for reference to a select committee. Oddly enough, last night the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 'Monday Conference' was asked questions about the code and he gave a most remarkable answer. I will read it to the House from the transcript of the programme. He was asked initially about the question of abortion which then led on to this other question. He had said that he had a personal view about abortion but that he would not express it. Then he was asked this question: 
Does that mean that the proposed criminal code for foe Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory which was tabled in the Parliament in 1969 and which was going to be introduced next year won't come in? 
The questioner was interrupted by the Prime Minister who offered this additional answer: 
I do not know about this proposal relating to the Australian Capital Territory. 1 have not hea'rd about it before and 1 can't give you an answer to that question. 
Today the Prime Minister replied to my question without notice about what he had said on 'Monday Conference' and suggested that the matter was confined simply and strictly to the abortion issue. It is perfectly clear from what he said on Monday Conference' that it was not so confined. The question was quite explicit. It was: 
Does that mean that the proposed criminal code for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory that was tabled :n the Parliament in 1969 and which was going to be introduced next year won't come in? 
And the Prime Minister said he did not know anything about it. So we have now 2 odd statements from the Prime Minister, one that there was no prospect of introducing a Bill on abortion this year - that presumably means all next year - and the other that he had no knowledge of a proposed draft criminal code for the Commonwealth territories. Today he spoke about the question of abortion and indicated that as far as he was concerned there was no legislation to be introduced on that topic. Obviously he has not read the draft criminal code; this is not surprising because he has other duties to perform. But it has a provision on abortion in it, and if it is enacted in anything like the form it is in now it will have to repeal existing laws and enact other laws which are different. If that is not an enactment of a law relating to abortion I do not know what is. When we consider this matter again we see a strange series of contradictory statements. As I have said, in answer to a question I asked him, the AttorneyGeneral said that the Bill was in such an advanced state of drafting that it could not go to the Law Reform Commission of the Australian Capital Territory; it was too late for that. It was reported in the Press, and the Attorney-General has not denied it, that it would be introduced early next year. He says in the Senate that it will be introduced next year. Now we have the Prime Minister saying that there is no prospect of one part of the proposed code, which would have to be a part of it, being introduced in this Parliament, and also saying: 'Anyway, I don't know anything at all about it'. 
He is probably right there. I speak only for the Australian Capital Territory in which there is a lot of feeling about this issue. Professional lawyers in the Territory are concerned to know what sort of law is to replace the archaic criminal law we have inherited from New South Wales. The academic community in Canberra is concerned about it. Professor Geoffrey Sawer. perhaps the best known writer on legal subjects in Australia, has said that the proposed Bill is a shambles and should be scrapped and that the authorities should start completely again.  Dr O'Connor,  also of the Australian National University has been very strong in his criticism of it. When one looks at the size of the problem and considers the magnitude of the ta'k that will be presented to the Senate and this House - in what order one does not know - one can see how farcical any debate will be if it takes place in the usual way. There must be a select committee appointed to consider it. There is a background of concern that exists and has been expressed, by the editorial of such a responsible newspaper as the Canberra 'Times' on 13th November 1971. lt concluded by saying that the whole thing was a source of grave disquiet. 
Surely now is the opportunity, before Parliament rises, to set up a committee of members of this House who are interested in this subject. The Committee could do its work during the recess - not all of it; let us give them a break for Christmas. The Parliament will not resume before 22nd February. lt must be clear that one does not know because of the uncertainty, and it is the uncertainty which gives rise to the disquiet, when the Bill will bc introduced. There would be a great opportunity for a committee, which could be established before we rise, to do good work. There is the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  for example, who has talents in this area- from what he has indicated to us he might not be a member of the Parliament when the Bill is finally disposed of - and these talents should be used and his thoughts obtained during the recess and before he leaves us. There are also members such as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  and the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  on the other side of the House. I will not mention honourable members on this side of the House who I know are very concerned about the legislation and who believe it should have a thorough investigation by a select committee. It is a wonderful opportunity for a select committee to be appointed so that it can start its work during the recess. All honourable members would be better prepared and would at least have some indication of what the Bill would be like when it was introduced. There could then be a proper debate on it instead of one, as I think honourable members feel sometimes takes place, with a standard which is not as high as it should be. 
I can think of some examples of secrecy which have occurred in my short experience. For instance, there was a debate on the ordinance changing the land tenure system in the Australian Capital Territory. Deliberate steps were taken to prevent members of Parliament knowing anything about the proposed changes by refusing to invite them to conferences with the Department of the Interior. This was done and a debate took place at a low standard with honourable members in a state of semi-ignorance. Knowledge is power, but if the knowledge is all on the Government side because of the departmental advisers whom the Government has available to it, the Government starts off one up in any sort of debate. This is wrong. Honourable members on both sides of the House should have an opportunity to obtain information. In this instance the information can come only from a select committee which could be addressed by criminologists, penologists, sociologists and other experts, such as lawyers. The committee need not be solely comprised of lawyers. 
There is one point which J will touch on before I sit down. When the Bill comes in it will have to deal with punishment. There can be nothing more important than a law which imposes a new set of punishments. Now, one of the problems in the Commonwealth Territories is that the punishments are imposed by judges who sit in the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and Papua New Guinea but administered by someone else. The Australian Capital Territory has no gaol and I do not know that it wants one, but it follows that if a judge here sentences someone to imprisonment after having regard to his antecedents and after sociological and psychological evidence has been given and makes recommendations, that person goes into a prison system over which that judge has no control and in which the judge's directions can be ignored or even laughed at. It should not be. There should be a general philosophy underlying any scheme relating to a criminal offence. When criminal codes are introduced in the United States of America they are linked up with the penal system and the authorities stress the importance of linking them up with a philosophy on punishment and with a penal system which is responsible to the court where the punishment is imposed. We have not got to that stage in this country; we are in a different situation. How can this House debate the question of what punishment is appropriate to particular crimes in the Australian Capital Territory when honourable members will not know how the punishment will be administered under the New South Wales penal system? That is a foreign system to the Australian Capital Territory - as is South Australia's system to the Northern Territory. We need expert evidence of what happens in those penal systems, expert evidence that can be given only before a select committee so that honourable members can be informed of it. Honourable members who are not members of the committee could go along to its meetings and listen to the evidence, obtain a copy of the transcript of evidence and the report, study them and ask questions. They can then come into this House and know what they are talking about. 
-I  ask for leave to say a few words in reply. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many refugees from Hungary were admitted to Australia following and as a result of the Hungarian uprising in 1956-57. 
How many refugees were admitted from Czechoslovakia following and as a result of the intervention of Russia in Czechoslavakia in 1968- 69. 
Did Prime Minister Holt, or any other Government spokesman, offer to provide residence in Australia for some of the stateless non-African people who were not permitted to remainin Kenya following disturbances in that country. 
Were any stateless non-African people, who were not permitted to remain in Kenya, permitted to live in Australia, as a result of that fact. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What arrangements and practice exist for his Department to obtain expert professional advice from outside its own ranks. 
Does the Department (a) appoint experts from Australia or overseas for limited periods of time, (b) use experts as consultants on particular matters, (c) use advisory committees, (d) use committees of inquiry and (e) conduct research evaluation of Commonwealth projects in education and on other educational matters. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House nf Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future bc made independent of the New South Wales education system; 
That the decentralization of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments; 
That the Australian Capital Territory is  a  homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institu- tions of tertiary education, practicing educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underly it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And our petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I  give notice of my intention at the next sitting to present a Bill for an Act to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1971 to prevent a licensee broadcasting or televising any advertisement promoting the sale or consumption of cigarettes. 
I also give notice of my intention at the next sitting to present a Bill for an Act to amend the Post and Telegraph Act 1901- 1971 to prevent the sending by PO.t of any postal article which promotes the sale or consumption of cigarettes. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In relation to his answer to question No. 4390 (Hansard, 2nd November 1971, page 2888) regarding public transport services in Canberra, how is the majority demand assessed to enable his Department to determine the peak hour services to be provided. 
If no meaningful comparisons can be made with other cities, what standard has been chosen as being appropriate to meet the needs of the people of Canberra and how was this standard selected. 
Can he say whether the people of Canberra are as well provided with public transport as the people living in other Australian capital cities. 
Has a decision ever been made to encourage or permit the transport requirements of Canberra to be satisfied more by private transport than by public transport; if so, when and why was this decision made. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the value of the aid to (a) India and (b) Pakistan (i) in each of the last four financial years and (ii) budgeted for in 1971-72. 
From the sum allocated in each year, how much was spent on (a) food, (b) other aid given as  a  result of natural disasters and (c) transport costs in each case. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What agencies of the United Nations are operating in East Pakistan; 
Which of the agencies are providing food aid; 
What is the nature and extent of the food aid. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the UNESCO Education Congress be held in Australia in May 1973. 
Is the Congress considered to be important by the Government.  
Will Australia be represented at the Congress. 
Will the Government assist in financing the Congress: if not, why not. 
If so, (a) to what extent will the Government assist the Congress and (b) what percentage of the overall assistance provided by those countries represented at the Congress will be provided by the Australian Government. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice:  ls it  a  fact thai persons possessing library qualifications who enter the Commonwealth Public Service at Third Division level in the library field cannot progress beyond the equivalent of Clerk, Class 4 without acquiring graduate  qualifications whereas persons entering the Third Division without qualifications can progress beyond Clerk, Class 4 without acquiring additional qualifications: if so, why. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the Government receive sales tax on oral contraceptives at a rat? of 271 per cent which is the same rate as that on goods for amusement purposes. 
What sum did the Commonwealth receive from sales tax on (a) oral contraceptives and (b) all contraceptives during the financial year 1970- 71. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Russian Government has requested permission of the Australian Government to open a trading establishment in Sydney; if so, was the request refused. 
If the request was refused, what reasons were given by the Australian Government for the refusal. 
What reasons were given by the Russian Government for wishing to establish a trading establishment in Sydney. 
Does the Government agree that there is general advantage to Australia in having as much contact of a trading kind as possible with all countries, including Russia. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the community of the Australian National University respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minima] section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters on to higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority 
Universal commonwealth scholarships. 
Commonwealth scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability. 
Abolition of tertiary fees. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say to what extent the Australian footwear manufacturing industry is owned or controlled by overseas firms or companies which also own or control footwear factories in (a) Hong Kong, (b) Japan, (c) Taiwan and (d) Korea. 
Can he also say whether these firms or companies are acting through their parent, subsidiary or allied companies to import footwear into Australia for sale in competition with (a) their own locally manufactured footwear and (b) other locally manufactured footwear with the intention of ensuring a greater profit from their manufacturing activities in those other countries than would be made from their manufacturing activities in Australia. 
If so, do these policies result in some Australian manufactured footwear being more expensive and of lower quality than would otherwise be necessary. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he state (a) the approximate number and (b) the gross tonnage of United States owned merchant ships that have been registered with Liberia rather than with the United States of America in each of the last 5 years. 
If so, how does this (a) number and (b) gross tonnage compare with United States ships registered with the United States of America. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Will the report of the interdepartmental committee on restrictive trade practices, referred to by the Attorney-General on 9th November 1971, be used and studied by departmental officers and the Government for the purpose of preparing the greatly strengthened legislation on trade practices that is yet to be introduced. 
Will greater benefit and increased understanding of the problems associated with the enactment of proper restrictive trade practices legislation result if the report of the interdepartmental committee is made available to all Members of the Parliament on request. 
Will the Attorney-General make the report available to Members so that it can be studied. 
If so, will it be made available before the proposed trade practices legislation is introduced. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many arrests were made in respect of incidents arising out of the Day of Rage demonstration held in Canberra on 21st May 1971. 
In how many cases have the charges arising from the arrests been prosecuted to finality in the Canberra Court of Petty Sessions. 
How many cases (a) have resulted in the person arrested being (i) acquitted and (ii) having no penalty imposed, (b) have been discontinued or had no evidence offered against the accused person, (c) have yet to commence and (d) are part heard at this time. 
On what date is it expected that the last case will commence. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many arrests were made in respect of incidents arising out of the demonstrations at the Springbok Rugby match at the Manuka Oval on 21st July 1971. 
In how many cases have the charges arising from the arrests been prosecuted to finality in the Canberra Court of Petty Sessions. 
How many eases (a) have resulted in the person arrested being (i) acquitted and (ii) having no penalty imposed, (b) have been discontinued or had no evidence offered against the accused person, (c) have yet to commence and (d) are part heard at this time. 
On what date is it expected that the last case to be heard will commence. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system; That the decentralization of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments; 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the community of the Australian National University respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters on to higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action lo introduce in order of priority 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships 
Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability 
Abolition of tertiary fees. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will eve pray. 
Petition received. 
It was not my intention to speak in the grievance day debate. I had in mind speaking tonight on the adjournment but, as the opportunity :o speak has presented itself now, I shall race advantage of it. I make a strong plea for the creation in the Australian Capital Territory of a citizens advice bureau and, tinted to it, the office of a public solicitor. Perhaps I can highlight the need for these ! offices by informing the House of a few incidents that have occurred in my own personal experience in the last week or to, and link it up with a final story which occurred late last night and again at about 8 o'clock this morning concerning a young lady to illustrate this great need that exists in the Australian Capital Territory. Also, I hope to show that in the Australian Capital Territory, with all its obvious advantages, there are very great deficiencies. Canberra is a modern city, but it has no territorial government or local government and it follows from that that everything is administered by the Department of the Interior and the officers of that Department. These officers invariably are housed in high rise buildings in Civic Centre. T have nothing against high rise buildings as such but they do produce a sense of anonymity in the people working in them. The citizen in the street who has some problem - he might not be particularly well educated and, he may be in the lower income group of the community, and b; deficient in funds - often does not know where to turn for help. 1 give 2 examples which arose because of heavy rainfall which occurred in Canberra a few weeks ago. The protest was that roofs were leaking and the maintenance section of the Department of the Interior would not or could not attend to the problem. There was no-one to whom those affected could turn. It was after hours and they ended up going to their local member and quite rightly, too. Another case involved a lady who had been flooded out of her home. She too, had no-one to go to and she also turned to her local member. The point is that they should be able to go to someone who is readily accessible - not someone whose identity can be discovered only by a searching examination of the telephone directory under a name that probably means nothing to the person who is doing the search and who is then faced with the problem of finding this particular officer, going to a multi-storey building, looking at a directory of tenants, going up to the tenth floor and wandering along corridors that often are more reminiscent of a penitentiary than of an office housing someone who is accessible and friendly. People often are put off by some young person behind the counter who perhaps has not been taught the art of public relations, who has not been brought up in a shop where the customer is always right and who is not amenable. People who need help are put off by that sort of experience. They do not know where to turn. There should be someone to whom they can go who is down on the street corner in a shop that is open and which can be walked into and where they can receive friendly support. 
Most of the other capital cities of Australia do have these citizens advice bureaus: Canberra has none. Most of the other cities of Australia have pubic solicitors offices; Canberra has none. I know that it has been said by the Government that there is to be introduced in the Australian Capital Territory a legal aid scheme that may overcome the difficulties of a person who has no money but has a problem. A legal aid scheme will not meet the situation because the person who has the problem often does not realise that it is a legal problem. He often does not realise that of all the solutions that may be available to him. the legal solution is only one. So. it does not occur to him to go to a lawyer, although the lawyer might help. He cannot afford to pay the lawyer anyway, so he will not take advantage even of the legal aid scheme. There are deficiencies in the legal aid scheme, but that is another matter and something which can be discussed at another time. A citizens advice bureau should be established; it should be well known and it should have the power and funds to advertise and to announce to the world that it exists. It should be in a readily available situation, perhaps in Civic Centre, where people walking past it can see its name emblazoned on the plate glass windows. 1 provide the House with 2 stories to illustrate what I am talking about. Last week a young man came to see me. He had a problem. He was being sued for $70. The claim arose because of a broken windscreen of a motor car. The question of insurance did not arise. He had no money, he was 20 years of age -and he was a labourer. He was married with one child and his wife was expecting another child. He, his wife and child were living in a garage which, fortunately, was in the backyard of his parents' home. Because of the building layoff in Canberra for the last month or so he had been able to obtain only about 2 days' labouring work a week. That meant he was bringing in something like S2S a week. He had a motor car which was indrivable and unregistered so it represented neither an asset nor a liability. In the garage they had a television set on which hire purchase payments were due. This 20-year-old man, married with his wife expecting their second child and living in a garage in Canberra, the national capital of Australia, suddenly was faced with a bill for $70. He did not know what to do. 
He had gone to a lawyer who had once done some work for his father. The lawyersaid 'Yes, I will fight it but I will have to ask you for $100'. 1 do not blame the lawyer for that because it involved travelling o Queanbeyan as the case was being heard' in the Queanbeyan Court of Petty Sessions. The young man did not have $100 with which to pay the lawyer so I made inquiries on his behalf. I was told that he was probably entitled to the advantages of the legal aid scheme but when my inquiries reached the level of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  I was told that he was not entitled to these benefits because, although he lived in Canberra, the national capital, and although it is an Australian Capital Territory legal aid scheme, the case was being heard in the Queanbeyan Court of Petty Sessions. Of course, that is a relic of federalism, the thing about which we hear so many kind words said. Fortunately, I believe that the young man's case is to be settled. He strenuously denied that he was liable for the $70. With a good lawyer alongside him he might have won the case. He now has had to compromise by splitting the difference and paying $50 and he has asked for time to pay. Eventually he will be given time to pay his lawyer, although I believe the lawyer has reduced his fee out of kindness to the young man. This story highlights the problem that exists in the Australian Capital 
Territory. That young man should have had the advice and, indeed, the assistance he needed. 
I do not have much time remaining, but I mentioned earlier a case which was brought to my attention last night and again early this morning. A young lady 16 years of age, unmarried and pregnant - she is expecting her child shortly - came to me. She is being evicted from her house in Canberra. She does not know what to do. She lives in the house with her younger brother and her father, who is the tenant.  Her  father is separated from his wife who lives in some other part of Australia. The landlord gave her father a lease of the premises only last week, but between last week and now, the landlord decided to sell the property and he said 10 the tenant: *1 want you out'. The father earns $50 a week and he pays $30 of that in rent.  Her  father did not come to see me this morning. The young girl came to me in great distress. She did not know about a lawyer or about a landlord and tenant ordinance. TJ she had been in Sydney, someone would have sent her to the Public Solicitor and he would have taken up the case and told the landlord to go jump in the lake because on the facts presented to me. the landlord has no legal rights at all. That young girl who is only 2 or 3 weeks away from having her child came to see me at 8 o'clock this morning in a state of considerable distress. I finish on that note. There should be established a citizens advice bureau and a public solicitor's office with his name emblazoned at street level on the plate glass window of a building in Canberra. I do not say that it will overcome all the problems in cases such as this but something must he done to stop this sort of thing continuing. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
How many persons in: 
the Australian Capital Teritory; and 
the Northern Territory, were sentenced to terms of imprisonment during each of the last 5 years. 
What were the offences for which these persons were convicted. 
How many persons were convicted in respect of each type of offence. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
How many (a) builders' licences and (b) builders' special licences are current in the Australian Capital Territory. 
How many persons on the staff of his Department are engaged in deciding whether or not to issue (a) builders' licences and (b) builders' special licences. 
Is this number adequate. 
What is the average time lapse between an application for (a) builder's licence and (b) a builder's special licence, and the time when a licence is granted. 
How many (a) builders' licences and (b) builders' special licences have been cancelled or withdrawn in each of the last 5 years. 
Why were these licences cancelled or withdrawn. 
What factors does the Department take into account in deciding whether or not to accept the qualifications of a person applying for (a) a builder's licence and (b) a builder's special licence. 
What evidence does an applicant for (a) a builder's licence and (b) a builder's special licence have to present before his qualifications are accepted for a licence. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
T present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  ami Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of citizens of the community of the Australian National University respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority: 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships. 
Commonwealth scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability. 
Abolition of tertiary fees. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I 110Ve 
That the Education Ordinance 1971 (No. 28 of 1971), made under the Scat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1970, be disallowed. 
That the  amendment  to regulation 6 of the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Fares Regulations as contained in Regulations 1971 No. 7, made under the Commonwealth Motor  Omnibus  Services Ordinance 1955-1970 of the Australian Capital Territory, be disallowed. 
These 2 ordinances have the efi ,ct of increasing school bus fares in the Australian Capital Territory from 2c to 5c per journey. The amendment to the Education Ordinance can for practical purposes be disregarded because its purpose is mainly to make the increase in fares brought about by the amendment to regulation 6 of the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Fares Regulations consistent with other sections of the Education Ordinance. The fact that an ordinance of this kind has to be debated in this Parliament after some 72 years of federation and after the Australian Capital Territory has been in existence for well over 40 years is the strongest condemnation of this Government's inertia and complete failure to provide a proper and alternative system of making, laws for the ACT. May 1 tell the House what the measure is all about. In June last year the Department of Education and Science indicated by circular that it wds currently reviewing the provision of school bus services in the Australian Capital Territory, lt gave its reasons and they were the increased amounts being paid for the bus services. They had risen to approximately $420,000 and the Department also gave as a reason the need to impose economic restraints. Very few people were aware of this circular here in Canberra at the time but those who were interpreted it as just another example of the Government's then policy of restricting public spending in an attempt to curb inflation. Of course, it was as useless for that purpose as turning off the fountain in Lake Burley Griffin although it did have the difference that it was much more serious because it imposed a financial burden on many parents of school age children. lt was in September 1971 that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  announced that school bus fares would rise from 2c to 5c per journey and he indicated that the expected revenue would increase to about $120,000. The previous ?c fare had produced approximately S38.000 As I have said, the cost of school transport itself was approximately $420,000. These figures show that the fares in no way recoup the Government for what it spends. The increase is only an attempt to extract money from parents who have school age children. As such it is nothing more or less than a tax on the parents of school age children - a tax which in the form in which it has been imposed here in the Australian Capital Territory is not imposed in many of the other States, certainly not in New South Wales, South Australia. Queensland and Victoria. 
The ordinances were introduced in October last year, and promptly a number of complaints were made by local parents and citizens associations protesting about the increase and the effect it would have. The protests were that this would have a terrible effect on low income families. 1 have been told, and I accept, that a number of other parents and citizens associations discussed the problem but passed no resolutions of protest because they were persuaded - and it is a common view held in this city of Canberra - that once an ordinance has been introduced it is too late to protest. It is my own view that, because of party divisions, there is no chance in the world of persuading this House to do anything about it. I am merely acting out a charade here when I stand up and say what I am saying. Those parents and citizens associations took no action because it was considered too late. That feature of despair, if I may call it that, and frustration is just another feature of how laws are made in the Australian Capital Territory and for the Australian Capital Territory. 
What does the increase mean? It means that a family with 3 school age children has had its bus fares for those 3 children increased from 60c a week to $1.50 a week. Its new school bus bill for a 42 week year is now $63. If the family has 6 school age children - and I know of one which has 8 - the bus fares increase by $1.80 a week to $3 a week. The new yearly school bus bill is approximately $126. I have called the charge a tax. It is nothing else. It is almost impossible to find out just how many families with school age children there are in Canberra whose incomes are such that the fare increase will cause hardship. We do know that the average national income is about $90 a week. How anyone supports a family on that I do not know. We also know that approximately 64 per cent of the wage earners of Australia receive less than that $90 a week. The income tax returns for 1969 showed that approximately 26,000 persons in the Australian Capital Territory received less than $60 a week. I do not know how many of those are married and have families or in how many cases the other spouse does not have in income, but there must be many of them. I know from my own experience of the large number of people coming to my office here in Canberra with one problem or another who are trying to live and support families on a total take-home pay of $55 or $60 a week. Any increase, whether it is an increase in the cost of food or electricity or an increase in bus fares, to such a family means great hardship. 
The Government must have recognised that the increase could cause such hardship because it included in its amendment subregulation 5. This allows an application to be made for a refund if the person concerned can satisfy the Minister, through his officers, that the increase has caused hardship. The Minister suggested the same concern when he announced the increase, because he said that he would have preferred to leave fares at the old rate. I interpret this to mean that he knew it would cause financial hardship. The Minister went on to say, and repeat what his Department had earlier said, that the pressure on the Budget had led him to impose the increase. He also said that the money would help to provide Australian Capital Territory school libraries, and in a letter to me dated 4th November 1971 he said that the increase would help provide Australian Capital Territory school vacation play centres and a teaching resources centre for the assistance of Australian Capital Territory teachers. If this is so, it is surely wrong. It is a wrong way to go about financing such projects, because the charge is nothing more than a tax on the persons who are least able to pay - the wrong people. The Minister does not tax the wealthy who drive their children to schools in cars. He taxes the people who have to use the public transport system. 
The argument based upon budgetary considerations is false. It is now generally agreed that the policy of that Budget has been abandoned. The Prime Minister  (Mr 
McMahon) and his Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  are now taking steps contrary to those they took in September last year. Then they were trying to restrict public spending; now they are encouraging it. Last week the Prime Minister gave the State Premiers a great sum of money - about $9lm - in an attempt to increase public spending and arouse some enthusiasm in the economy. By that test the underlying policy that required that these Australian Capital Territory bus fares be put up should now be scrapped and the increases dropped. 
I come back to the proviso about giving relief where there is financial hardship. How can this help? The Minister must know that the decision whether or not to give relief in a case of hardship has to be made by social workers. He should know, or if he does not 1 would suggest that his colleagues tell him, that the social workers of Canberra arc hopelessly overworked and understaffed. There has been recent, publicity on the subject. For example the senior resident judge of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court has publicly protested about the inability of the social workers to provide him with pre-sentence reports, and he has been told by counsel representing the Crown, who presumably knows, that the social workers of Canberra carry a work load more than double that carried by their colleagues in New South Wales. Yet the Minister asks those same social workers to pick up the check and administer this piece of legislation as well by interviewing applicants for relief from hardship caused by this increase in school bus fares. Does the Minister know that the social workers of Canberra have not had any major staffing review since 1968? Does he know that their numbers are basically the same as they were then, notwithstanding the fact that their case loads have increased by about 130 per cent in those 3 years? That percentage is far greater than the rate of growth of the city of Canberra and a rate of growth that can only be accounted for by those social workers being given extra jobs to do. Yet the Minister seeks to impose another job on them. 
I have made some inquiries that reveal that the social workers administer, or try to administer, this relief of hardship provision in the manner in which they adminis- ter the subsidised medical benefits scheme. That means that a person has to have an income of not more than $52.50 a week to be eligible for relief. It is true that in special circumstances, where there are large numbers of children or special medical expenses have been incurred, other factors can be considered but I am told this is extremely rare. Families with a breadwinner who earns $53 a week or more get no relief, notwithstanding that for, say 6 school children their bus fares now amount to $3 a week. They get no assistance even if they are paying rent of perhaps $30 or S35 a week, and there are many families in Canberra who are paying such rent on a take-home pay of less than $60 a week. The application of the regulation 97 allowance in Canberra partly contributes to it, coupled with the Government's decision not to have premises subjected to fair renting. Again how those people live I do not know. On those figures it probably never gets to the stage where the officer has to investigate and decide whether the family spends too much on its electricity, its hire purchase payments or any other such considered luxuries. 
The whole philosophy underlining the increase is wrong. Canberra, with all its attractiveness and with all its advantages and good living, has some very serious defects. One of the most obvious, and it is well known to anyone who lives in Canberra, is its deplorable public transport system. In many cases it is cheaper for people to drive a car to work than to use the public transport system. The other night I made some inquiries of a public service acquaintance of mine who lives in Weston Creek. I was told that travelling by bus to the Administrative Building, close by Parliament here, costs him 80c return a day. You can drive your car for that. Is it any wonder people are discouraged from using the public transport system, and is it any wonder that the Government's only solution to the problem of providing public transport is to increase fares and offer fewer buses and so make the system worse? Anyone who works in the city of Canberra knows how it has been transformed in recent years by the developing parking problem. I have here a newspaper account from the 'National Times' of 28th February carrying the headline 'Office Block and the 
Motor Car - a Match that Failed'. It sums up the position as eloquently as anything I can say. People are picking up parking tickets, but parking tickets do not seem to deter motorists who I suppose are eternal optimists. I am receiving more and more complaints from people who cannot find a place to park their motor car in the city of Canberra. It seems that we are following the path of misfortune of the big cities such as Sydney and Melbourne and others overseas. 1 know that there are difficulties about providing good public transport, but the answer is to provide it and accept it as a charge on the community rather than try to limit and restrict the service to service based upon some outmoded test of how we can make it pay or whether it can produce a profit, because it clearly cannot and it never has. We cannot make it pay. The sooner we realise that the better. We should be moving in the direction of overseas cities such as Rome and Bologna, which are now providing free bus services. It is more than just a matter of convenience and the shortage of parking space. It is a matter of common sense. It is linked with pollution, congestion and anything else one cares to think about. We should stop trying to deter motorists from taking their cars to work. We should provide a better and more attractive alternative public transport system. I should like to quote the remarks of 2 gentlemen who have considered this subject in some depth. The head of the Urban Research Unit of the Australian National University in Canberra,  Dr Max  Neutze, stated recently that Sydney and Melbourne should have free transport so that people would be encouraged to use public transport instead of using their cars. The Head of the Transport Section of the Department of Civil Engineering at Melbourne,  Mr Nicholas  Clarke, recently described the present policies of trying to finance public transport services from user charges as economic lunancy. 
The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has shown by his recent intervention in a particular case that I am sure he will recall - the case of the Tharwa primary school children - that basically he is sympathetic to this problem because in that case he did intervene and, as I understand it, overrule a departmental decision which would have taken away some transport subsidies and he restored the subsidies to the parents of those school children because of their geographical isolation. I can end only by asking both Ministers concerned with this problem and all honourable members present to support this motion. The Government is imposing a tax on people Who can least afford to pay it. For the wage earner who tries to support himself and his family on $55 or $60 a week, it is an impossible task to have added to that burden an extra $1, $1.30 or $1.50 a week. Very often during the 3 years that is now the waiting period for government houses in Canberra, people are forced to pay rents of $30, $35 and $40 a week. This is common knowledge. I cannot quote exact figures but the 'Canberra Times' recently compared advertisements for rental houses in Canberra. In a 12- month period from, I think, December 1 968 to December 1969 the average rents rose from about $28 a week to something in the neighbourhood of $40. As I have suggested, the reason for that is the refusal of the Department of the Interior to fair rent the premises on which it allocates its regulation 97 allowance. Be that as it may, rents in Canberra are extremely high and enormous economic hardship is caused to people who are trying to make ends meet. To impose increased school transport fees as an additional hardship on them is wrong and should be avoided, particularly when one has regard to the reasons given toy the Minister last year as being linked with the same sort of thinking that led the Government to turn off the fountain in the lake to attempt to save money and, when it realised how silly it had become, it turned the fountain on again. The Government now is pouring money back into certain parts of the public sector, as evidenced by the payments made recently to the Premiers of the States. If the thinking behind the imposition of the increase on those fares was the same and if economic conditions have now changed and the Government accepts that they have changed and that it is following a different policy, there is all the more reason apart from hardship, to rescind this decision to-night. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many school leavers are expected to graduate and to seek employment in the Australian Capital Territory at the commencement of 1972. 
How many school leavers in the Australian Capital Territory with the (a) school certificate, and (b) higher school certificate were accepted for employment with the Commonwealth Public Service in each of the last 5 years. 
Have any decisions been taken which will affect the likely intake of school leavers from the Australian Capital Territory as recruits to the Public Service at the commencement of 1972. 
On the basis of previous experience, what is the estimated number of school leaver applicants in the Australian Capital Territory who will be refused employment in the Public Service in 1972. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the community of the Australian National University respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships 
Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability 
Abolition of tertiary fees. 
And your petitioners, as In duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Has the. Australian Broadcasting Commission produced a biographical sketch typefilm concerned with the life and times of  Dr H.  V. Evatt and known as 'Like a Summer Storm' or some similar title. 
If so, when was (a) a decision first made to produce the film, (b) production of the film commenced and (c) production of the film completed. 
What was the total cost of production. 
Did the production of the film require the composition of special music; if so, by whom and at what cost. 
Who was the (a) producer and (b) script writer of the fim. 
What was the purpose in making the film. 
Was it intended that the film would be shown on Australian Broadcasting Commission television and perhaps distributed to other television outlets. 
Have requests been received from interested persons that the film be shown or that they have access to it; if so, from whom have these requests been received. 
Has a member of Flinders University in South Australia expressed interest in the film and made a request that it be shown or that he. have access to it as an aid in certain academic work that lie is undertaking; if so, when did this happen and who is the member. 
In the course of production of the film was it necessary for certain members of the AustralianBroadcastng Commission to go to the United States of America and to France to collect material for the film. 
Why has the film not been shown. 
Have any representations been made that it be not shown. 
Will he ensure that the film is shown and that proper efforts are made for it to be widely distributed. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The. humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capita) Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system; 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and it now being studed by several State Government Departments; 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  it seems- 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That they have no objection to the Aboriginal Embassy being on the lawns outside Parliament House. 
That they believe that the Aborigine, in common with all other Australian citizens, have a right to assemble in any peaceful manner of their own choice. 
And that they would object to any law that would make their being there illegal. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government does not enact any law that would detract from or hinder the rights of the Aborigines to be there. 
And further that the Government instructs its officers not to interfere with the Aborigines who are peacefully assembled outside Parliament House. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray.  petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for the Interior a question. Is it a fact that an Ordinance is about to be gazetted that will make illegal the demonstration by Aborigines outside Parliament House? If so, when is it expected that it will be notified in the Gazette? Did the Minister on 23rd February last in answering a question by the right honourable member for Higgins describe the demonstration as one that concerned Aborigines who were demonstrating in a peaceful way for a cause in which they believed, that they had been quiet and well behaved and had co-operated with the police extremely well? Did he also say that the Aborigines had observed every request that the police had made of them, that there was no litter or health problem and that the Government saw no great cause for concern about the Aborigines? In view of that statement will the Minister agree that there is great danger that such change 
In the law which could make the demonstration illegal and bring it to an end would be interpreted not only as a restriction of the right to demonstrate outside Parliament House but also as a restriction that has never been imposed before, and one that has been reserved- 
I present the following petition: 
Tothe Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That they have no objection to the Aboroginal Embassy being on the lawns outside Parliament House. 
That they believe that the Aborigine, in common with ail other Australian citizens, have a right to assemble in any peaceful manner of their own choice. 
And that they would object to any law that would make their being there illegal. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government does not enact any law that would detract from or hinder the rights of the Aborigines to be there. 
And further that the Government instructs its officers not to interfere with the Aborigines who are peacefully assembled outside Parliament House. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That they have no objection to the Aboriginal Embassy being on the lawns outside Parliament House. 
That they believe that the Aborigine, in common with all other Australian citizens, have a right to assemble in any peaceful manner of their own choice. 
And that they would object to any law that would make their being there illegal. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government does not enact any law that would detract from or hinder the rights of the Aborigines to be there. 
And further that the Government instructs its officers not to interfere with the Aborigines who are peacefully assembled outside Parliament House. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I move: 
That the petition be printed. 
In accordance with the  requirements  of standing order 132 I inform the House that I intend to submit a notice of motion in respect of the petition. If I might speak very briefly to that motion-- 
-I do not wish to do that,  Mr Speaker. 
-I do not intend to.  Mr Speaker.  I would like to say a few words as to the reasons why the petition should be printed. I do not intend to canvass or refer to the contents of the petition at all. lt is a well known fact that if a petition appears only in Hansard it will have limited publicity and limited reading. The rules require- 
1  am indebted to you,  Mr Speaker.  As I said, it is a well known fact that petitions are not widely read because the publicity given to them is restricted generally to their appearance in Hansard. What I seek to do in having the petition printed is to take advantage of the situation which requires that papers and petitions which are printed be published as parliamentary papers - in the case of a petition the text but not the list of signatories is printed - and be included in the parliamentary papers series. I also wish to achieve the objective that the text pf the petition will then be distributed to recipients of parliamentary papers on the free distribution list. This would mean that the text of the petition will be distributed to recipients such as government departments and various universities and libraries as well as councils for Civil Liberties throughout Australia and overseas. In addition, it will be placed on sale to the public at Australian Government Publishing Service bookshops and sales outlets in capital cities and it will be bound in the annual series of parliamentary papers volumes which have a wide distribution in Australia and overseas. I understand that in Australia it goes to Commonwealth departments, State parliamentary libraries, public libraries, universities and college libraries. Overseas - I stress this in view of what the petition concerns itself with - it goes to certain central parliamentary and national public libraries, and important university libraries. If this matter is important, and I suggest it is because this petition deals with a matter of great concern namely, the widespread feeling that the Government may be about to take some action on a certain point of view concerning the demonstrators outside the front of Parliament 
House, then it is important also that it be known and that this Government be shown up as expressing a fear and fright of demonstrators. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I have tried not to do so. Those are the principal reasons why I suggest the petition should be printed. The subject is one of great concern. Without canvassing the petition, there could not be a more fundamental subject than the ready access of citizens of Australia to this Parliament House, and it should be made as widely known as possible what this Government is thinking of doing. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I will move: 
That this House is of the opinion that the lawns in front of Parliament House should always remain available to the people of Australia for the purpose of peaceful assembly to demonstrate political points of view in a manner of their own choice and that no limit should be placed on the duration of such assembly. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting its concurrence. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the community of the Australian National University respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray, that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority. 1, Universal Commonwealth Scholarships. 2, Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability. 3, Abolition of tertiary fees. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray- 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several Stale Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is  a  homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that  a  Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I second the motion and speak now rather than reserving my right to speak later because it does seem likely that the House will adjourn this debate and not allow this matter to come on for proper investigation. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  at great length went into the question of the need for a vote on this matter. The only reason for an adjournment at this time surely can be that there are members of this House who have not adequately considered their position. They would have to be almost in the position of a lawyer saying: 'I am taken by surprise'. Honourable members are politicians. They are parliamentarians and I am certain that all honourable members have had this matter raised with them time and time again in different places and have expressed views on it. All members have considered it. They would not be worthy of their places here if they had not done so. I judged from the interjections - friendly in a sense - of some of the supporters on the Government side when the Leader of the Opposition was speaking that they were concerned about the situation that the Labor Party would vote as a Party and that members of the Government Parties might not vote as a Party. So what? What difference does that make? Think of it for a moment. All it means is that members of the Labor Party have put their heads together, their minds together, and have reached an agreement as a Party on this issue. 
They did so as long ago as 1922, as the honourable member for Wills reminds me. They have agreed on this question. They are united. If they want to vote that way, what is wrong with it? Why cannot Liberal Party and Country Party members treat this question the same way? If they do not want to treat it that way, do not treat it as a Party vote but as a matter of conscience because that may well be what it should be. At least there would be an expression of the will of this House if it were treated that way. If this matter is adjourned after the 7 years referred to it by the Leader of the Opposition, not only is it a tragedy and a travesty of the processes of this House but also it is further evidence of the progressive decline of the Parliament. Nothing can be more important than whether the state is to execute people convicted of crimes. I think that the Leader of the Opposition said that this is of as much importance as is a declaration of war. It is the right to take human life, when it is exercised by the state. Nothing can be more important and yet everything about this debate, if it can be called a debate, gives the appearance that this matter will go no further but will be buried again because Liberal Party members and Country Party members prefer not to stand up and be counted and prefer not to express themselves and declare themselves on this matter which they must have considered. They want to run away from it. The abolition of the death penalty has been a progressive tendency in all civilised nations throughout the last 1,000 years or more. 
Having spoken on the question of why this matter should go to a vote and tried to get rid of this red herring about one side of the House not having it as a Party vote and the other side having it as a Party vote, and having tried to illustrate the irrelevance of that argument, let me now make a few points on the question of capital punishment. The Leader of the Opposition did not do this and one can understand why, because it has been canvassed so often and the arguments are so well known. When I learned over the weekend that this matter would probably come up for debate today, I asked the research section of the Parliamentary Library to give me some reading material on this subject to refresh my mind and to enable me to prepare a speech. I was given a list of books that had I taken them I could not have jumped over them. There would have been no way in the world for me to read them, but they are all in the Parliamentary Library. Every argument has been canvassed and it comes down to this: Some people believe that it is necessary to have the death penalty as a deterrent; others say that that is nonsense and it is sheer old fashioned retribution - an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth; 'It makes me feel better. If he hurts or kills someone. I will hurt or kill him too'. 
Irrespective of whether there is any social mechanism or social justice behind it or social engineering or anything of that son, it is old fashioned retribution and that surely is the basis for the death penalty. If it is tested by reference to the principle of deterrence, it does not apply. Every modern piece of writing on the principle of deterrence points out that it does not work. It does not work because the average person about to commit a crime does not believe he will be caught. The principle of deterrence applies only if there is a certainty of being caught and brought to justice. To that principle we can add the fact that in cases of murder, which is what one normally is talking about in a debate of this nature, the overwhelming majority of murders  -  perhaps 95 to 97 per cent - result from domestic problems. They arise on? of a domes: ic issue - jealousy, passion and feelings of that sort - where the idea of retribution does not come into it at all. It never occurs to the person who suddenly slashes out at a wife or husband who falls against a wall, fractures a skull and dies that there is a law against murder and that the person may be imprisoned for life or sentenced to death. That consideration does not come into it. If honourable members look through the records they will find that this is the position. I reinforce this argument with one small piece of material that I acquired. It is a succinct statement of the position. It docs not appear in a learned journal but in the 1969 edition of 'Encyclopedia Britannica'. It makes the point the imprisoned murderers are among the best behaved prisoners and they rarely commit new crimes, almost never a new homicide, if released. The article states: 
Though very rare, homicides in prison by murderers, whose death sentences were commuted, have been known, but the vast majority of such crimes are committed by prisoners serving sentences for crimes other than homicide, and when prisoners serving sentences for robbery, burglary, or theft are paroled they are later convicted of new crimes 10 to 15 times more often than are paroled murderers. 
I think it goes without saying largely, that in studying whether the crime of murder is prevented by the threat of the death pen:alty, the results in countries which have the death penalty should be examined. For example, most States of the United States of America have the death penalty on their statute books, yet that country has probably one of the most violent communities that the world has ever known. The homicide rate in that great country is far higher than it is in any other country in the world, and the presence of the death penalty does not alter that fact. I will cite some figures taken from the article to which 1 referred earlier. In the United States data on this subject have been systematically compiled since 1930. In the period from 1930 to 1965 some 3,856 persons were executed - nearly 4,000 persons in that period. Of that number 3,332 were executed for murder, 455 for rape. 24 for armed robbery, 20 for kidnapping, 11 for burglary, 8 for espionage and 6 for aggravated assault. The threat of the death penalty did not prevent the murder rate remaining at the highest in the world, by far. 
It is an odd fact that in the United States such executions have largely stopped since 1966 or 1967 as a result of a campaign by certain types of civil liberties lawyers, to whom I will refer in more detail in a moment if 1 have time. I will tell honourable members of another example to prove my point that the death penalty as a deterrent has very little, if anything, to do with the crime rate. A month ago I asked a question of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  dealing with the number of persons sentenced to imprisonment in the Australian Capital Territory, with a population of about 150,000, and the number of persons sentenced to imprisonment in the Northern Territory, with a population half of that of the Australian Capital Territory. The criminal laws in essence are the same in both Territories, as are the punishments in terms of capital punishment as a deterrent and things of that sort. I discovered that whereas about 110 persons go to gaol annually in the Australian Capital Territory for one reason or another, nearly 17 times that number annually go to gaol in the Northern Territory, although it has about half the population of the Australian Capital Territory. Is that because there is no deterrent in the Northern Territory? In a moment I will discuss the aspect of murder in that context. Is it because the Northern Territory does not have the death penalty and the Australian Capital Territory does? No, because they both have the death penalty. 
Over the last 5 years 4 persons were convicted of murder and/or manslaughter in the Australian Capita] Territory, one of whom was convicted for murder. In the Northern Territory in that period 22 persons were convicted of murder and/or manslaughter, or nearly 6 times as many as were convicted in the Australian Capital Territory under the same law, as far as a deterrent is concerned. The figures for the Northern Territory do not show the number convicted for murder. All sorts of explanations might be advanced for the difference. It could be suggested that the Aboriginal problem is relevant, or all sorts of things could be raised. I accept that there is a different social situation and that is the reason for the higher crime rate in the Northern Territory. It has nothing to do with deterrent penalties. I suggest that people who apply that line of argument will ultimately be driven to the conclusion that a deterrent penalty has little to do with the difference. To argue otherwise is to make a barbarian of yourself. If we as members of this Parliament lake it upon ourselves to say that the Commonwealth Parliament will make a law or will allow a law to continue that contains provision for the execution of people, it is not enough for us to say that we do not actually carry it out. It might be carried out. If it is not carried out, it has other consequences. 
I see that the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  is sitting opposite. He or any trial lawyer would understand the point 1 am about to make. A little while ago I represented in the Australian Capital Territory a person on trial for murder. This was before I became a politician. There was great difficulty in getting a judge to preside over that murder trial. A judge said to me that judges did not want to sit on a murder trial and possibly expose themselves to having to impose the death penalty. 
Because they disagree with it. lt had the consequence of reducing the choice of judges available. Alternatively - I would hate to think that this was correct - it might also have meant that the residue of judges available from the panel would not volunteer but would conduct the trial and would even relish it. I am not saying that is so, but that possibility is open. I remind honourable members that at that time Canberra had one resident judge, the others coming from the Commonwealth Industrial Court. In that particular case, when the jury was empanelled, a young lady juror asked the trial judge about the penalty. The charge had been laid and she knew that it was murder. She asked whether the penalty for murder in the Australian Capital Territory was death. The trial judge said that it was. She then said: 'I could not possibly sit on this jury. 
I would be prejudiced. I would not in any way be able to direct my mind to the real issues in this case because I would be so prejudiced and I would have so much sympathy for the accused, whether he did it or not, that I would not be able to consider the evidence objectively.' 
The judge discharged that juror, leaving 
II persons to try the case. This may seem a little irrelevant, but the fact is that the judge's attention was then drawn to a technical rule of the Australian Capital Territory which meant that the whole jury had to be discharged. The accused person had been brought there on penalty and under threat of trial as a result of which his life could have been at stake. The judge was then asked to release the accused on bail. The accused was not released, of course, because of the nature of the charge. He remained in custody for another three or four months, as 1 remember it, until another jury was empanelled. 
When the second jury was empanelled, no-one objected about the penalty as the young lady had done previously, but who is to know whether the second jury contained people who similarly were influenced by the penalty? It is widely known that in the Australian Capital Territory the penalty for murder is death. The accused was acquitted on the ground of insanity. Who can say with any degree of confidence that the finding of that jury was not influenced by the fact that had it not found him not guilty on the ground of insanity he might have been executed? Who is to know whether some amongst them said: 'We do not believe in executions or the death penalty'? 
I have told that story to draw attention to the uncertainty and prejudice that can creep into the judicial system when the death penalty is clouding it all the time. I do not have very much time left, but I would like to refer to the. extremely long history of the struggle to abolish the death penalty that has brought us to this stage. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has referred to the period of 7 years in which, in one way or another, the death penalty has been the concern of this House. I have said that the matter should not be put off again until some time in the future, because the world is changing. We do not have to go back to the start of the age of enlightenment, to Beccaria, Romilly Bentham. Voltaire, and Montesquieu and all those other people who were the foundation pioneers in the campaign to abolish this barbaric penalty. 
The most recent decision on which I have been able to lay my hands came to my attention last weekend. It is reported in the weekly review of the 'New York Times'. It refers to a decision of the Supreme Court of California that is not yet available in this country. The Parliamentary Library has tried to get it for me, without success, but the 'New York Times' is such a reputable newspaper that I am sure honourable members will agree with the facts as it has reported them. The decision concerned is of perhaps the most prestigious State court of the United States. About a month ago by a majority decision of 6 to 1 the Californian Supreme Court decided that the section of the Constitution of California relating to cruel or unusual punishments - it is copied from the Eighth Amendment of the United States Constitution - meant in effect that the death penalty could not be imposed in California. Six judges of that very prestigious, esteemed and responsible United States court struck down a California State law on the ground that it infringed the Californian Constitution. 
Honourable members might ask what that has to do with us. I suggest that it has this to do with us: That court was considering what is meant by 'cruel or unusual punishment'. In a 6 to 1 majority judgment written by a judge who was appointed specifically because he was thought to be hard on this line and in favour of retention of capital punishment,  Mr Justice  White, the court held that the death penalty was both cruel and unusual, that it was unnecessary to any legitimate goal of the State and that it was incompatible with the dignity of man and the judicial process. 
It is my understanding that since about 1967 no executions have been carried out in the United States of America, with a whole mass of appeals lodged and pending hearing in the United States Supreme Court. This is the latest little bit of weight that has been put onto the scales and I can only suggest that honourable members opposite get with the trend and do not let the debate on this Bill be adjourned. They should make up their minds now. They have had heaven knows how long to think about it. If the matter is buried now it will be the shame of this Parliament. A decision has to be made and if honourable members opposite do not think that capital punishment should be abolished they can move an amendment. They have that right. They can do it that way if they are not prepared to go along with clause 3 in its entirety which states: 
A person shall not be liable to the punishment of death for any offence. 
I think that is a very noble sentiment and almost one which should be written up on the walls of this House. If honourable members opposite do not go along with it. and want to qualify it in some way they can do so. They can try to make an exception in the case of treason or some other offence if they want to, but do not just shelve this Bill. Do not just sweep it under the carpet. In the fina] minute or so that I have left I want to quote something to which my attention has been drawn. I apologise for my speech being too much pro-American or for the sources being American, but there was a great American trial lawyer, Clarence Darrow. who wrote an introduction to a history of capital punishment written by John Laurence. Darrow said: 
In the end, this question is simply one of the humane feelings against the brutal feelings. One who fii.es to see suffering; out of what he thinks is  a  righteous indignation, or any other, will hold fust to capita] punishment. One who has sympathy, imagination, kindness and understanding, will hate it and detest it as he hates and detests death. 
asked  the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the National Capital Development Commission and/or the Department of Works operate a system that involves long-term contracts being entered into with selected contractors for work to be performed in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, is there a panel or a list of contractors that is resorted to when long-term contracts are about to be entered into. 
If the position is as stated, what are the names of the contractors on this list and what considerations are taken into account in their selection. 
What avenues are available to those contractors who wish to be added to this list. 
What are the current rates for execution of general civic works performed under long-term contracts. 
How often are these rates revised and how do they compare with normal tendered contract rates. 
MrHunt - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Capital Development Commission does not select contractors for its longer term contracts. The contracts are established by public tendering. The Department of Works does not let longer term construction contracts in the Australian Capital Territory. 
and (3) Consequently there is no panel or list of contractors for this purpose. 
In addition to the longer tern) contracts of approximately 3-4 years duration, a large number of contracts are also established each year by public advertisement for contractors wishing to tender for Works. 
Longer term contracts have produced more favourable rates and prices than the shorter term contracts. The civil engineering contracts include a schedule of rates of some 350 items which vary from contractor to contractor according to his method of construction. The rates within the contract schedules are confidential to the parties of each contract, but the bulk sum tenders are publicly advised. 
The rates for longer term contracts are not revised between each public tendering, but provision is made in the contract for the normal contractural arrangement of rise and fall. The longer term contracts take advantage of continuity and stability of production compare advantageously with rates and prices in shorter term contracts. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many building contracts for dwelling houses are known to have been entered into in the Australian Capital Territory during each of the last 5 years? 
Is it usual for these building contracts to contain a maintenance clause whereby the builder undertakes to maintain or remedy defects during an initial period of time after giving possession of the premises to the owner? 
Does his Department have any information to indicate the number of residences that are completed pursuant to these building contracts where a dispute has arisen over the builder's failture to honour obligations under the maintenance clause; if so, what does his information reveal? 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Did his Department advertise in the Sydney Daily Telegraph of 23rd October 1971 for applicants to fill 5 positions in a Rescue Co-ordination Centre to be established in Canberra. 
If so, how many people answered the advertisement. 
How many of these applicants were invited to submit formal applications. 
What considerations were taken into account in deciding which applicants would be invited to submit formal applications and to proceed to interview. 
What were the reasons for excluding the balance of applicants from consideration. 
How many people were formally interviewed for the positions. 
Are the 5 successful applicants to be employed in Canberra: If so, what will be their duties and have the positions been filled. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Does the effectiveness of the Maintenance Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory depend on the implementation of a treaty between Australia and Malaysia as a reciprocating country under and with respect to that Ordinance. 
Is it a fact that the regulations under the Ordinance have not yet been amended to refer to Malaysia as a reciprocating country. 
If so, has the failure to amend the regulations made it impossible under section 78 of the Ordinance to obtain a provisional order for maintenance in the Australian Capital Territory. 
To include Malaysia as a reciprocating country, is it only necessary to amend regulation 8 of the Maintenance Regulations; if so, when is it anticipated that the amendment will be made. 
Will the Government take steps to indemnify person who can establish that they have  a  claim for provisional maintenance which cannot be established and satisfied because of the Government's failure to amend the regulations. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: - 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, asin duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system; 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government departments; 
That the Australian Capital Territory is  a  homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a committee of enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 Being the seventh  speaker  in this debate it is hard not to say things that have already been said but I find myself in this frame of mind that I cannot completely agree with the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  that this Bill represents a concept that is admirable. It is acceptable perhaps - reluctantly acceptable - but even if it is a concept that is admirable, the form in which it has been presented and the machinery that it provides is surely to be deplored. In fact if one spends some time looking through it, it will be seen that it has more in common with a criminal statute than a Bill for an employment service to be set up to provide for teachers to teach in the schools throughout the Commonwealth of Australia. I am minded to say this: I think the worrying things about this Bill are not so much what is in it, although they are bad enough, but what is not in it. For example, it is well known and it has been said by previous speakers, that this is in essence an employing service. The Commissioner will essentially employ teachers according to very orthodox, very authoritarian methods with disciplinary powers, criminal sanctions and all sorts of things that other speakers have spoken about. But who is going to be the teaching authority? 
If one looks at the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  one finds almost nothing at all said about that. The concept is there for a Commonwealth teaching service for the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and the other Commonwealth Territories. But I do not think any great merit is to be given to the Commonwealth for suddenly introducing this Bill because I think it is well known that the Government's hand was forced and that it would have limped along and dragged its feet as it has done so often in this field if its hand had not been forced. The Government has had its hand forced by the action of the South Australian Government in announcing the withdrawal of its teachers from the Northern Territory. The Government was faced suddenly as if it had fallen out of bed on the wrong side with the prospect that the New South Wales Government would sooner or later do the same thing, certainly with the approach of the oft talked about crisis in education. So something had to be done. This Bill has all the earmarks of urgency and haste about it otherwise why were no attempts made to have an authority in this case or in that case? The authority is just referred to in small letters; it does not even commence with a capital A. It is going to administer the teaching service of the Australian Capital Territory and of tha 
Northern Territory but where is it? Of course the Minister glosses over this in his second reading speech like a good advocate I suppose and he says: 
There has been no attempt to spell out in the Bill at this stage the precise details of how the teaching service will operate. Rather the Bill sets out the framework within which the service may operate. Decisions as to how it operates will be framed hi appropriate regulations under sections of the Bill and will be available for consideration by the Parliament. 
We know how the Parliament considers delegated legislation in this House. The Minister went on to say: 
As the requirements of the school systems change and develop so appropriate regulations will be drafted. 
I understand that the Minister has said on some occasions when he has been challenged over this Bill that there is no need to worry because his heart is in the right place - I do not say that I am quoting him literally - and he will not administer this Bill as it would be possible to administer it. It is so wide as to enable any Minister to put his own framework and his own personality on it just as it will be possible for the Commissioner when he is appointed to put his own framework and his own personality and his own stamp and imprimatur on it. But what if this Minister, giving him credit, is no longer the Minister for Education and Science tomorrow? We know the history of the Government on this sort of thing. Suppose he is replaced by somebody else who has a different style, a different method and different approach to education. Where are we left then? Is this how we make laws for the people of the Australian Capital Territory? Is this how we make laws for the Northern Territory? Do we let administration of the laws depend on the whim, the personality or the mood of a particular Minister and his power to delegate legislation and lay it on the table of the House as an ordinance or as regulations which go through this House and the Senate? Perhaps the Senate is not so much affected because it has a committee to deal with these matters, but in this House no-one has an opportunity adequately to consider them. If one looks at how regulations are to be made, I suggest the punch line will be found. Clause S3 states: 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters that are required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed. . . . 
I do not want to suggest that there is anything sinister in that but it is a worrying choice of words. I would like to know, and I think that the people of the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and the other Territories - I speak certainly for the people of the Australian Capital Territory - want to know who is to be the authority, particularly here in the Australian Capital Territory before these regulations are made. To whom will the Commissioner delegate the powers that he exercises under this Bill? He will have power to delegate all his powers. He can virtually abdicate his powers, although not the power to delegate itself. 
He can delegate? 
So we will not even have any control over that delegation. A sort of abdication system is to operate. It is as though a cloak was pulled across the face of this Parliament. It might not be a waste of time if I mention the history of the campaign, if I may call it that, for better education in the Australian Capital Territory. It has been adverted to by some of the previous speakers. The Australian Capital Territory is an unusual part of the Commonwealth in one sense, not because the people here regard themselves as entitled to any better treatment by way of education than the rest of their fellow citizens throughout the Commonwealth although they are very concerned about education. The figures show that they are concerned. The Australian Capital Territory has 5 times the national average of people possessing tertiary education or higher school certificates or the equivalent. If one looks at the correspondence pages of the 'Canberra Times' one sees that there are periods when they literally erupt with letters on the question of education. Honourable members would know that I present a petition on education here in one form or another almost every day asking for one of 2 things - an inquiry into education in the Australian Capital Territory to precede the setting up of an independent authority here, and the setting up of an independent authority. There can be no doubt that there is great demand for an independent authority here. It is that demand that the Minister and his Government have seen fit to ignore and reject. They have also rejected the unanimous wishes of the Combined Parents and Citizens Association of the Australian Capital Territory. They ignored the wishes of the secondary school teachers association. The Minister takes some comfort from the fact that he consulted with the New South Wales Teachers Federation. 
And the Australian Teachers Federation. 
-I ask the Minister whether he consulted the New South Wales Teachers Federation. 
My information is that he consulted the New South Wales Teachers Federation. 
He did that only 3 weeks before the tabling of this Bill in this House. 
I do not wish to engage in an exchange across the floor like this but I repeat that my information - and the Minister will have an opportunity to deny it at the right time - is that he consulted with the New South Wales Teachers Federation on one occasion 3 weeks before the tabling of this Bill in this House. At that stage the Bill would have been in its final form. He might care to tell us whether or not he changed it in any way after that consultation. He also saw the Australian Teachers Federation representatives on only 2 occasions. He might tell us whether he adopted any of their recommendations. My information is that none of their advice was adopted. This is reflected in the Bill, which provides for a single commission, no advisory body and a disciplinary code that can be used against teachers in a way that will regulate them and encase them in a rigid system which is completely inconsistent with any kind of professionalism. 
On that point, one only has to look at what is going on in New South Wales at this time. We find that disciplinary action is being taken against New South Wales teachers under a similar provision of the New South Wales Act and Regulations because teachers are refusing,and rightly refusing, to work additional periods imposed upon them not only because it is part of the policy of the union to which they belong but because out of conscience they believe that to work those extra periods under those circumstances is unconscionable and bad for the profession they represent and belong to and bad for the students that they exist to serve. What is happening? They are being called up. I do not mean they are being called up for national service but they are being penalised, subjected to disciplinary powers, fined, treated like criminals, convicted and perhaps being told of their right of appeal. What sort of teaching service is this to foist in 1972 on the Commonwealth Territories? It is exactly the same thing. It is of no good the Minister saying, as he might: 'It will not work that way. I will appoint a nice Commissioner. He will not really think that way.' How do we know what will happen? Look at what has been done in New South Wales and what is being done there now. The same old type of legislation is again being foisted upon people. 
One point has to be made strongly. The people of the Australian Capital Territory who are concerned about this problem regard this legislation in its present form as being temporary and something that must be righted at the first available opportunity. We know the realities of power in this House. We know the numbers on the other side of the House and the numbers on this side of the House. I repeat that the people of the Australian Capital Territory who are interested in this matter regard the Bill in this form as being a temporary measure. There is another feature that strikes me as being odd. Why on earth - I wish the Minister would listen to this instead of going over and talking to his professional advisers - do we require an oath of allegiance? What are we trying to do? Are we trying to treat teachers like soldiers, sailors or airmen? 
Why should you? Would you have doctors or dentists treated in that sense? Clause 20 provides that an officer must make and subscribe, before the Commissioner, a person appointed by the Commissioner or a justice of the peace, an oath or affirmation of allegiance in accordance with the form of oath or affirmation in the Second Schedule of the Bill. I do not think I am being particularly difficult on this point, but let us look at the form of the oath. It is straight forward and there is an alternative form of affirmation. The oath reads: 
I, AB, do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second, Her Heirs and Successors according to law. 
Clause 35 (10.) gives a comprehensive account of the forms of misconduct that a teacher can be guilty of. They include wilful disobedience or disregard of a direction applicable to him as an officer. Where is the professionalism? Where is the independence? Where is the maturity that one would surely expect the teacher to possess when we treat him like a child and say: We will whip you, cane you, suspend you, fine you*? What sort of men will be recruited to the Service to pass on concepts and notions of . maturity and liberalism? I do not mean the kind of liberalism practised by honourable members opposite but true liberalism. How are we to recruit these men when we have a system like this. A teacher may be considered guilty of misconduct if he is negligent or careless in the discharge of his duties, or if he is inefficient or incompetent by reason of causes within his own control. He may be found guilty of misconduct if he has used intoxicating liquor or drugs to excess. Suppose he has a 21st birthday party for his son in his own home and he drinks too much. Is he to be treated as being guilty of misconduct and fined? That is what the Bill says. Honourable members opposite need not shake their heads. That is what the Bill says. 
It is laughable and ridiculous that a man should be considered guilty of misconduct if, having made and subscribed an oath of affirmation under sub-clause (2.) of clause 20 of this Bill, he did or said something in violation of that oath or affirmation. Let us suppose he teaches history. Suppose he teaches the history of the glorious revolution of 1688. What are we going to do?  Are  we to sack him, suspend him or fine him? Yet the Government tries to put these provisions in a statute in 1972. I ask it: Where is its imagination? I could continue with this sort or argument for a long while but other speakers have described the situation. The legislation is a terrible disappointment to the people of the Australian Capital Territory and I am assured that it is a terrible disappointment to the people of the Northern Territory. No-one argues with the idea that greater flexibility would come from a teaching service that extended beyond the area of the Australian Capital Territory, beyond the area of the Northern Territory and into other Commonwealth Territories. With some kind of flexibility there could be a rapid or easy means of transference by a person who chooses to go from the Australian Capital Territory to Darwin or to Port Moresby to teach. However it is not my idea of progress to provide that a person may be directed to go somewhere and if he does not do so he is guilty of an offence. I support the amendment. 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  was bang on when he said that the blame for the unrest and the trouble which the Government blames on the unions should be laid right at the door of the Government. I heard one Government  speaker  saying that it was the fault of the union bosses. I do not know what honourable members opposite think of unions when they use terms like this. It is almost as though they are suggesting that a very large proportion of the Australian population is mindless and that the unions do not consist of the great mass of the people of Australia. It is somehow thought they can be manipulated or used by the men they elect and put into office. Surely the position comes to this: Unions exist to further the interests of their members, particularly their working conditions, to increase wages and to chase and match rising prices. Although this is not really the occasion to talk about what causes rising prices, we cannot get away from it because this Bill is really a Bill about unionism. It is a Bill dealing with what brings into being unionism and the efforts of unions to further the interests of their members. 
I advance this thought: Whatever causes inflation, whether -it be wages chasing prices, wages outstripping productivity, monopolistic control of industry coming from abroad or other things, we come back to one often accepted principle. It is a principle which I think even most Government members would accept. I have heard them say this often. It is that wages outstrip productivity. Who is to blame for the low rate of productivity? Surely it is caused by the inefficiency of management. That comes back to the failure of government to prompt management and leads me to ask the questions: Why the degree of monopolisation? Why the failure of government to look at the tariff structure? Why does not it look at restrictive trade practices? This Government always has one simple explanation for everything. It says that it is the unions' fault. It never sees it as the fault of monopolies. It never sees it as the fault of overseas control of industry that has become inefficient. It never sees it as the result of taxation policy which destroys incentive or its immigration policy. The Government never sees a cause in any of these factors nor in its own dullness and its failure to set an example and a standard that would inspire the country. 
One can look around the House to see this. This has been called an important Bill. I cannot see more than 4 or 5 supporters of the Government present in the House tonight. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has been coming and going much of the time. Where is the interest and the enthusiasm? All the Government can say again and again is: 'Bash the unions'. I have the second reading speech of the Minister in front of me. Surely it indicates a completely dishonest approach to this problem. He starts out by saying that the Bill is designed to take care of the industrial situation. On the face of it, honourable members would ask: What does that mean?' Honourable members might look for an example in the old Conciliation and Arbitration Act which had a similar definition dealing with industrial matters, meaning all matters pertaining to the relations of employers and employees. Honourable members might think that is what this statement relates to. But if they look at the Minister's second reading speech and the small print in the Bill they will see the hidden mailed fist and the hidden coercion which underlines the whole Bill. It does not relate to innocuous, peaceful industrial situations as one would expect them to exist - situations which normally exist 99 per cent of the time. The Minister does not mean that because he defines the position quite differently. He means it to refer to strikes, bans or limitations on work engaged in by officers or employees of Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities. 
Yet, although he introduces a change of that magnitude - nothing could be more substantial by way of a change - he has the nerve to continue not much later in his second reading speech to say that the basic framework of this Act has not been changed. I suggest that it has. It will have changed if this legislation is passed in a very basic way and in a way detrimental to the overwhelming mass of Australians. And it is a threat. It is a threat aimed directly at the representatives of working people who are trying to make up in the only way that they know for the inefficiency and inadequacy of this Government. 
If I look for the threat, it is not hard find it, even in the Minister's second reading speech. He talk's of the things that he wants the Arbitrator to do. He provides for the setting up of the Arbitrator and then, without saying anywhere in the Bill what the Arbitrator is to do, he then casts his shadow ahead and tells the Arbitrator: This is what I have in mind for you to do in the event of your not getting satisfaction. You will stand down officers or employees involved in a dispute or who cannot be gainfully employed as a result of a dispute. You will apply the principle of no work no pay where officers or employees refuse to carry out all of the duties required of them. You will ask them to withdraw bans or stoppages. You will bring about alteration of the terms and conditions of employment of any particular class of officer or employee in an effort to overcome the cause of this industrial situation as it has been defined.' The Minister puts forward legislation that he says will be fair. He sets up an Arbitrator who is to have the appearance of being fair to both management and the unions. There will be no confidence in him if he does not appear to be fair? But the threats in the Minister's second reading speech destroy the bona fides of his claim that the legislation is fair. 
I do not intend to take a great deal of time. I come back to the point I tried to make at the beginning of my speech. There are inefficiencies and inadequacies in the Government's management of this country. The Government should look to its own house and put it in order. It should not just blame the unions. Only last week in Canberra there was an example of what I mean. Through years of neglect there was a failure to bring up to date a simple piece of legislation, the Australian Capital Territory Motor Traffic Ordinance. Under that ordinance buses exceeding a certain weight were not permitted to be driven at more than 25 miles an hour. They had exceeded that speed for years because it was the only way in which the drivers could make the system work. The bus drivers were breaking the law that this Government made for them because they had to carry out their duties. They broke the law but the Government did not blame them. Presumably the Government applauded them, or allowed them to break the law. It made no attempt to change it until an ingenuous young policeman arrested a bus driver and said: 'I will apply the law.' The young policeman arrested a bus driver. The bus driver was dealt with as a man who had broken the law. As a result there was industrial unrest and action of a worktorule kind. It was not a strike in the normal sense, but work-to-rule action. 
I have no doubt that the Government was very pleased. It believes it brings the unions into disrepute and that serves the interests of the Government. Nothing could serve the interests of the Government more than bringing the unions into disrepute. But one looks to the merits of a situation like that. The bus drivers were saying: This time we will drive your buses at 25 miles an hour, silly as it is, and obey the law.' Who is the greater villain? Is it the Government which persisted in allowing a law like that to remain for so many years, or is it the bus drivers who insisted on carrying out the law once a young policeman came along and arrested one of them? There can be no doubt that the negligent party, the one to whom the blame should be sheeted home, is the Government and not the unions. 
That is a simple example that occurred in Canberra only last week. I heard the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  give other examples of the same sort, but the Government is never prepared to look into its own system and methods and the methods of its supporters, lt always comes up with the simple cry: lt is the unions.' Perhaps the Government does not always say that because it does not want to offend too many voters. So it blames someone called a union boss. The Government overlooks the fact that those people are subject to election, just as are honourable members opposite. Union bosses are elected by their rank and file to carry out the wishes of the membership of a union. 1 could go on because a lot could be said on this subject. The whole point is that this legislation extends into a field where it has never been present before. An element of coercion is produced, and surely coercion is always bad. The Minister has raised his eyebrows, or perhaps he has knitted his brow. 1 am not sure what he means to convey by the expression on his face. 1 repeat that coercion is always bad. One has to find a good example, a good reason, to justify it. What reason do we find in the case of this Bill? What reason did the Minister for Labour and National Service give in his second reading speech? Let us go back and refer to that speech All he said, over and over again, was that times have changed. That is what he said. He said that when the legislation was enacted back in 1920 the provisions in this Bill were not needed. But he said that times have changed. There are more industrial type employees employed by the Commonwealth these days and there is a bigger Public Service. Times have changed all right but the people who work for the Commonwealth still are pretty much the same good people that they always were. It is this Government which has changed. 
This Government is run down. It has allowed a cumulative mass of inertia and inefficiency to grow up so that there is discontent in this country. You will see it wherever you look, wherever you care to walk. Yet the Government, instead of trying to re-activate and re-invigorate itself and introduce some kind of reforms, simply says that misguided agitators and misguided union bosses are causing all the trouble. The Government says: 'We will introduce more coercion and we will give more powers to arbitrators. We do not care if they are not made to look like arbitrators any more. We do not care if they look like policemen carrying out the wishes of government'. That is exactly what will happen. 
That is right. For 30 years there were no penalties and now suddenly this sort of legislation has been introduced. 1 refer to the story of the bus drivers of Canberra and the action they took last week.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would you put those bus drivers in gaol if they drove at 26 miles an hour around Canberra just because this Government never got around to changing the law? 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Are traffic lights being installed near the the building complex behind the Australian War Memorial. 
Is it a fact that the complex has not yet been completed and is not occupied. 
If so, when will the complex be occupied. 
If lights are being installed near the complex, why is it that lights cannot be installed at the intersection of Jerrabomberra Avenue and Hindmarsh Drive. 
Does the National Capital Development Commission consider that it is more necessary to place the lights near the complex before placing lights at the intersection of Jerrabomberra Avenue and Hindmarsh Drive. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the A.C.T. respectfully showeth: 
That the A.C.T. Pharmacy Ordinances 1931- 1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance . . . for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' to be deleted from sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the A.C.T. Pharmacy Ordinances. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is 8 homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therfore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underly it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27) per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47i per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system. 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments. 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Inquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to inquire into the form that an Australia Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Minister must know that one of the persistent grievances felt by the teaching profession wherever it exists and makes representations to governments of any political complexion is that it does not enjoy the professional status that it would 'like to enjoy. In other words, it is treated as being in need of discipline. It seems to me that he is giving a veto-like power, in this case to the Public Service Board. He is endeavouring to ensure and maintain that rigidity of relationship that exists at the present time. In other words, if the teachers are correct in their argument that they are entitled to a higher professional status, they have to be allowed to put that argument somewhere. They have to be able to negotiate their own conditions. What the Minister seeks to do - he has almost said this - is to freeze them in their present position. He mentioned that he has never heard the officers of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation complain. Perhaps this is so for good cause. Those officers enjoy a high status. I am sure that teachers would be heard to say that those officers enjoy a higher status than do teachers. The teachers might want to argue that they, too, want to enjoy that status. The Government is to freeze them now in a straitjacket of a system of employment that is subject to a veto of a common employer. It is no good just saying that the Commissioner will have the veto. The Public Service Board will impose its standards. If it thinks that standards for teachers should be lower than those for officers of the CSIRO it will maintain that differential. That is the great weakness of this part of the legislation. 
This clause deals with leave of absence for service with a State or an authority outside the Commonwealth. It provides, in part: (1). Where the Commissioner makes a member of the Service available to a State, an authority of a State, the Administration of a Territory not forming part of the Commonwealth, the Government of a country other than Australia or an authority of such a Government, the Commissioner may grant to him leave of absence without pay for the period for which he is so made available, 
This provision cannot be understood in its entirety unless it is linked with clause 16, which has already been dealt with by the Committee. Clause 16 relates to the functions, duties and powers of the Commissioner. I remind the Committee that the essential part of clause 16 is as follows: (2.) The Commissioner shall make available to each authority conducting a Commonwealth school or Commonwealth schools in the Northern Territory of Australia, for the performance of teaching duties in that school or those schools, persons in such number, and having such qualifications, as will, in the opinion of the authority, ensure the efficient operation of that school or those schools. 
Will the Minister tell me so that I can understand clause 24 and its relationship to clause 16 what is to be the authority in the Australian Capital Territory? Is it to be his Department? When can we expect it to come into existence? If it is not to be his Department, is it to continue in some way to be the State of New South Wales? When will the State of New South Wales cease to be the authority for the Australian Capital Territory? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I point out to the honourable member that at present clause 24 is before the Committee. The question before the Committee is that clause 24 be agreed to. I ask the honourable member to relate his remarks to clause 24. 
I am relating my remarks to clause 24, which contains the word 'authority*. Surely in this Committee one is entitled to ask the Minister what is the authority for the Australian Capital Territory. When are we to have an authority? I want assistance. I suspect that the people outside this House would like to know. The teachers would like to know. The parents and citizens associations would like to know. Why will the Minister not tell us? 
Does the Minister ask us to consent to the Bill in its present form, using the word 'authority', when we have no way of knowing what it will be or when it is to come into existence? Is that what he is asking us to do? A word like authority' is just plucked out of the air and placed in a Bill which this Parliament is asked to approve, without knowing what the authority is to be. Is the Minister seriously asking this Parliament to do that? 

 Mr BRYANT (Wills) (5.8&gt;- We are raising this question because it seems to us that the- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I think the Minister's interpretation is correct and I uphold the point of order he raised. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - I have already ruled that the Minister's point of order is upheld. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Is the honourable member speaking to the clause? 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  on a point of order- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - I have ruled already on the point of order. Does the honourable member wish to raise another point of order? 
Yes, I wish to raise another point of order. Clause 24 cannot be understood unless it is read with other clauses that have not yet been dealt with by this Committee. I have in mind, for example, clauses 27, 28 and 29, in relation to some of which amendments are intended to be moved. In those other clauses one sees continual references to promotions and the right of the Commissioner to fill vacant positions in the service. Service refers to the service operated and managed by an authority, so one cannot look at clause 24 and say that reference to the word 'authority' there does not relate to the Australian Capital Territory. If one seeks an understanding of the word authority' one has to look at the clauses that precede clause 24  -  I refer to clause 16 and others - and the clauses that have not yet been dealt with in this Committee. 
To adopt the words of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  surely this is not the place to play games with clever legal points. One wants to know what the word 'authority' means. If it is to be said that clause  24  does not particularly concern the Australian Capital Territory - I say it does - one will certainly want to know what it means when one considers clause 27, because in that clause there is a reference to a vacant position in the service. One will certainly want to know what authority' means when one considers clause 28 because there reference is made to selection of officers for promotion in a service operated by an authority. One comes back to this word time and time again. One will certainly want to know what it means in clause 29 which refers to appeals against promotions. One will certainly want to know what it means when one considers clause 30 which deals with a promotions appeals board, because there is reference there to an officer elected as prescribed by officers of the service. Service has to be controlled and managed by an authority. I put it again to the Minister: Why Will he not tell us what is to be the authority for the Australian Capital Territory? When will it be put into operation? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order The Minister has spoken already on this question of an authority. The point raised by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory is very close to the previous point of order that was raised- 
It is different, though. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! I am speaking. It is ve.ry close to the previous point of order that was raised. The previous point of order has been disposed of already. I upheld the Minister's point of order that the question of the Australian Capital Territory is not envisaged under clause 24. 
 I ask the Minister for Education and Science: In the representations it made to him did the Australian Teachers Federation express opposition to the idea that this matter be subject to the approval of the Public Service Board? If so, was the request it then made for the right of appeal to the Public Service Arbitrator a consequence of the Minister saying that the Government insisted upon the matter being subject to the approval of the Public Service Board? 
 I, too, have a question to ask the Minister. I am mindful of the fact that he said that this Bill did not apply to the Australian Capital Territory at this stage. Reading clause 28 in the way in which it attempts to cope with the problem of determining efficiency, if I can just put it this way, and assuming that that test is directed to the Commissioner, because he seems to be the employing authority, can the Minister give us the benefit of his thinking on the subject as to how the Commissioner would inform himself on the question of efficiency, seeing that obviously it will be a matter within the knowledge of the teaching authority? It may be that this will be a matter to be dealt with by regulation at a later time. But perhaps the Minister could inform us of his thinking or of the thinking of his officers at this stage as to how the Commissioner would inform himself on the question of efficiency in order to ensure that fairness was meted out to the officer concerned before the machinery dealing with appeals and matters of that sort was brought into play. 
by leave - I have 2 or 3 questions to put to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It might be preferable and in the Minister's own interest for him to answer the question asked by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  first. 
Very well, if you wish. My questions relate to clauses 34 and 35. Taking clause 34 first, as the Minister knows, the introductory words are: 
If an officer appears to the Commissioner to be inefficient or incompetent, or unfit to discharge or incapable of discharging his duties- 
In such circumstances the Commissioner may do certain things to him. If we look at these things we find that they are quite serious. The Commissioner may reduce the teacher's salary, not give him an increase in salary, reduce him to a lower position in salary or retire him from the service. It is hard to imagine any more serious punitive action being taken against an officer. The test that is applied for determining whether such action should be taken is a subjective and not an objective test. It does not depend upon the result of an inquiry, which is a reasonable sort of test. The clause is worded: 
If an officer appears to the Commissioner . . . 
In other words the Commissioner could be quite irrational. He could be acting on gossip, prejudice or all manner of things. Let us assume that he is not such a person. Let us assume that being the commissioner and being, as the Minister himself has said so often, an employing authority or employing person not really charged with the administration of a teaching service, if he has to direct his mind to the question of inefficiency he will have to call upon someone else to tell him whether an officer has been inefficient or he will have to rely upon the initiative coming from some other agency. I should like the Minister to tell us what safeguards exist for an officer so accused. Suppose the officer is dissatisfied because he thinks that there is someone in his teaching authority - the Minister has told us there will not be one for the Australian Capital Territory for some time- 
I think it was implied. But be that as it may, if the officer concerned says that he has an enemy in his teaching service - someone who has a grudge against him, who has put him in unreasonably - or some superior who perhaps does not like him or the colour of his hair, as the last  speaker  suggested, what redress will the officer have? There is no inquiry required; it is a purely subjective test. The commissioner can make up his mind on gossip or anything else. There is no safeguard. Is there to be a safeguard and, if so, will the Minister tell us what it will be? Under clause 35, presumably because it was thought necessary to have safeguards, an inquiry is necessary before the Minister can impose less serious penalties - far less serious penalties. If we look at these penalties we see that they are merely a caution, reprimand or a fine not exceeding $40. 
If the sanctions in clause 35 appear less serious but an inquiry is required, why is it necessary for an officer to take an oath that he will do his job properly? In most other forms of employment, particularly those which are said to have a quality of professionalism about them, an engineer or  a  doctor is not required to take an oath that he will do his job properly, so that if he does not do his job properly there is not another sanction, another whip, another club hanging over his head by which some other disciplinary action can be taken. When I raised this point during the second reading debate members of the Country Party said: 'Why should he not take an oath?' Let us leave that aside. That is a red herring. They tried to introduce an allegiance or a loyalty suggestion which I am not touching upon at all. I do draw the Minister's attention to clause 35 (10.)(g) which reads:  having made and subscribed an oath or affirmation under sub-section (2.) of section 20 of this Act, he did or said something in violation of that oath or affirmation; 
It is a kind of quasi criminal offence. The form of the oath is simply that he shall do his job properly. If I do my job as a member of Parliament negligently I do not get fined $40. I do not get cautioned or reprimanded. I do not have any of these terrible things happen to me. Why should these things be imposed upon teachers? 
With the greatest of respect to magistrates and retired magistrates, one would hope that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is thinking of someone with more proximity to teaching experience to appoint as Commonwealth Teaching Service Commissioner than a retired magistrate. If one wanted to work out a formula that would deny to teaching officers a right to recourse to the courts - a right to assert legal rights in the courts - one could not chose a better formula than the one chosen by the Minister because it is purely subjective. One cannot go behind it. I will give him the alternative. If he wanted to protect the officer the clause would simply say If an officer is inefficient or incompetent'. That is an objective test and that can be inquired into by the courts. If an officer wanted to be heard to say that he was not inefficient or incompetent he could challenge it. He could use the legal remedies that might exist. As the clause stands an officer cannot go to court because the test is purely subjective. It is the classical, long term, honoured - perhaps not honoured but dishonoured - formula used by legal draftsmen to cut out access to the courts. I can infer only that it has been used for that purpose here - to stop them. There may or may not be a watered down right of appeal within the service, but no officer aggrieved under clause 34 can go behind that. It is purely subjective. It states 'If an officer appears to the Commissioner'. What more do I have to say? 
 My comments arise out of the discussion concerning clauses 34 and 35. The Minister has replied that there is no real danger because the appeal provisions contained in clauses 36 and 37 will take care of the situation. To put a purely hypothetical or fictitious situation, suppose as one honourable member said a moment ago that an officer of the teaching service is charged with an offence which might concern drink or something else another person would regard as making the officer morally unfit or morally incapable of performing his duties. 
Yes, it might be a demonstrator. It could be anything; a matter of dispute or a matter of opinion. Let us suppose that the officer is acquitted by a court. Corning back to clause 34, let us again assume that the commissioner disagrees with the finding of the court because he has information of his own or brought to him from somewhere, information which has not been tested in any way, and the commisioner says: 'I consider the man unfit' - 'morally unfit' if you like or morally incapable of discharging his duties.' Supposing the officer wants to say: That is not true. I am not unfit as alleged. You have drawn a wrong inference from the facts.' I accept the Minister's statement that if the commissioner then applies 2 of the sanctions referred to in clause 34, that is to reduce the officer to a lower position and salary, then the officer has the benefit of the provisions of clause 36 although he cannot get to a court of law. I repeat that he cannot get to a court of law. But if the commissioner retires the officer from the service - this is the third power contained in clause 34 (d)- the officer does not get any protection from clause 36 because this is not covered in that clause, nor does he get any benefit from clause 37, so he can be dismissed on a subjective finding of the facts even though it is just a pure matter of opinion. That is my reading of the Bill and I would be very glad if the officers assisting the Minister would draw my attention to where I am wrong. It may well be that the Minister will say that there is something contained in clause 37 but the officer cannot get to the courts because it is a subjective test and the officer might well have already won himself an acquittal in the courts. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Have any surveys or estimates been made of the areas of marginal land that are available in Australia for planting of certain types of eucalyptus or other trees to be subsequently harvested and used as part of the Australian woodchip industry for the production of paper for export to Japanese paper manufacturers. 
Have any estimates or surveys been made of the extent of the demand for Australian woodchips over the next (a) 10 and (b) 20 years by Japanese paper manufacturers. 
If so, what do these estimates and surveys reveal. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of citizens of the community of the Australian National University respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority: 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships 
Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability 
Abolition of tertiary fees 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances 1931-1959 Section 46, sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance .... for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words'or for preventing conception'be deleted from Sub-section. (1) of Section 46 of the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they are dismayed by the proposals for a Mini Budget recently announced by Government in the  House of Representatives. 
They consider the Government measures to be activated more by panic and concern over recent public opinion polls than by any genuine intention to advance the well-being of Australia. 
They reject the Government claim that there has been a resurgence of confidence. There can be no confidence while this Government remains in office. 
The Government's motives confirm the need for an early election that will give the people of Australia the opportunity to pronounce judgment on Ibis Government 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that such an election be held as soon as possible. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
A similar petition was presented by  Mr Foster,  and was received and read. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Mr Garrick, Mr Cohen  and  Mr Scholes. 
Petitions severally received. 
A similar petition was presented by  Mr Armitage. 
It has been said many times that truth is the first casualty in any war. We have heard some evidence of that today. For example - plucking a few things out of the air - in trying to make out a case the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  spoke of an hysterical call from the Australian Labor Party for American help back in 1941-42. He tried to use that to support his case about a news item relating to the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  Any rational thinking person will know that he spoke complete nonsense. The honourable member for Warringah also made reference to things that had happened at the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party in Launceston and suggested - I think he even said - that any reference to adherence to the ANZUS Treaty had been deleted from the policy of the Australian Labor Party. That is completely untrue. If necessary I could now quote the Australian Labor Party's policy on that matter. 
The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  spoke about a mindless mass action and an authoritarian sort of approach. What is authoritarian about the action of the honourable member for Lalor? I have in front of me a newspaper report on this matter from the Melbourne Sun' of 11th April 1972. Although I do not always agree with the headlines chosen by sub-editors for newspaper articles, I think I should quote this one. It reads: Back to the streets: Cairns on Vietnam*. The sub heading, if you like, or the first paragraph, which appears in heavy print, reads: 
The Labor MHR for Lalor,  Dr Cairns,  called yesterday foi a mass 'return to the streets in protest against the intensified war in Vietnam*. 
What is authoritarian about that? The honourable member for Warringah went on to say that the honourable member for Lalor was quoted as having said that people who were anti-North Vietnam would not be welcome at the proposed demonstration. Surely that is only common sense. If those people wanted to have a demonstration of their own they could have it, provided it was a proper legal demonstration. The honourable member for Chisholm also said - I made a note of this comment - that there would be an attempt to take to the streets and to break the law. Has he never read or heard of the right to demonstrate? There is nothing illegal in that. The honourable member for Lalor referred to the royal commission that took place in Adelaide on the fundamental right to demonstrate. There is some significance to be attached to this debate coming on today following the statement last night by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the results of the gallup polls that were published a few days ago. Can there be any other reason for Government speakers raising this matter? It has been raised today by Government supporters because they believe that short term political capital can be made by it out of a statement made by the honourable member for Lalor. The Government believes that it can in some way or another sheet home that statement to the Australian Labor Party. The interesting feature of all this is that it is the Government's political fortunes that are in trouble at the moment. The Government's resort to short term expediency, its lack of vision and its reluctance or refusal to commit, itself to any set of values but simply to' pluck out what it considers will give it a short term political gain are the reasons for the critical situation in which the Government finds itself today. But the Government does not appreciate that that is the position. Like the Bourbons, the Government forgets nothing but neither does it learn anything. That is the sort of thing that has brought about the political decline of what was once a great party. 
I return to the newspaper article, which refers to a call by the honourable member for Lalor for a mass 'return to the streets in protest against the intensified war in Vietnam'.- Has the Government no feeling for what has happened in that country? It was the honourable member for Lalor who pointed this out. There has been almost non-stop fighting in that one country since at least the 1940s. The Vietnamese people fought the Japanese. The leading forces in the South Vietnamese army fought against their own people when those people were known as the Viet Minh. They fought for the French against their own people. Marshal Ky was a fighter pilot for the French. Have honourable members opposite forgotten all these things? 
With great respect to the United Arab Republic, I point out that someone once said that the only army against which the South Vietnamese army could make gains was one trained by the Arabs. This is not because of something in the nature of the people. The South Vietnamese army has no morale. Why is there no morale? There is no morale because South Vietnamese soldiers are officered very largely by men who have come down from the north. It is one war. It should be borne in mind that since the French could not handle the situation in their own selfish interest and withdrew, the greatest power in the world has intervened in Vietnam. I refer to the United States. No one is a greater admirer of the United States in many ways than I am. Have honourable members opposite never beard of B52 bombers dropping bombs from 10 miles up? Have they not heard of so called Gatling guns that spew out 5,000 or 6,000 rounds of ammunition a minute into hamlets? Have they not heard of anti-fragmentation bombs? Have they never heard of the defoliation problem? These are the matters concerning the people who support the Moratorium campaign, I suggest. 
The war in Vietnam is going on and on. Have honourable members opposite never heard pf the policy called Vietnamisation which is nothing more nor less than changing the colour of bodies to a colour that is more acceptable to American public opinion. President Nixon started bringing his troops home on the great lie that he had won the war. He gave equipment to the South Vietnam army in the desperate hope that it could somehow stand together. It has a million men. It outnumbers the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese heaven knows how many times. It has been scourging into Cambodia and Laos. I come back te the point on which I commenced this speech. Truth is the first casualty. One cannot get to the facts. I know that there is strong evidence that the North Vietnamese are in Cambodia and Laos, but so is the South Vietnamese army. It has been there for a long while, moving in and out of Cambodia. We know the history of that sorry country. It is not a Vietnamese war now; it is a South East Asian war. This is the sense of outrage that people on this side of the House feel that does not seem to be shared by people on the other side of the House. 
I do not support the war at all. I think it is a dirty, filthy war. Like the honourable member for Lalor, I want to see it come to an end. It seems to me that American policy is determined to try to continue the war on terms that are acceptable to America. With bombs raining on North Vietnam, and with the South Vietnamese army scourging around in Cambodia and Laos, it is not unreasonable to conclude that the North Vietnamese are acting in a form of self defence, Vietnam being one country. It is a civil war. How can it possibly be argued otherwise? Go back to the Pentagon papers; go back to the Gulf of Tonkin resolution. The whole war is based on a series of lies. Surely that must be accepted. If one is concerned with the war at all one must come back to that. To my way of thinking there is only one thing with which we should be concerning ourselves, and that is trying to bring the war to an end. We should not be raising matters of public importance of this sort The war is being fought by Vietnamese, people from the North and people from the South, and now Cambodians and Laotians. The American Government, in one of the unhappiest and perhaps blackest periods in its history, has intervened grossly and, in my assessment and judgment, unjustly in that war. I know that it is open to debate and that people can argue about it. But that is where the motivation is coming from at this stage. Force builds force. Of course the North Vietnamese are using tanks, but the problem is to get the supplies of the Soviet Union out of the place and to get the American advisers out and bring the war to an end. 
On the radio this morning - I think it was on the programme 'AM' - I heard a journalist interviewing an American colonel or brigadier-general who was engaged in some fighting somewhere in South Vietnam, north west of Saigon. All that man could say was: 'Kill, kill'. He said that his men were told: 'We have surrounded some Vietcong or North Vietnamese. It does not matter what they are. Kill. Do not take prisoners. Do not worry about that sort of thing. Just chase them and kill as many as you can'. That is the emphasis. The Government has the emphasis all wrong. This war has to be brought to an end. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In view of his answer to my question No. 4556 (Hansard, 23rd November 1971, page 3329) concerning the need for additional electoral representation for the Australian Capital Territory on the basis of the number of electors involved, does the Government accept the contention that the number of subjects which are the exclusive concern of the Parliament justify additional representatives in the House of Representatives. 
Is it a fact that the House of Representatives is responsible for  a  whole range of subjects and activities in the Australian Capital Territory which are not the subject of its concern when they occur outside the Australian Capital Territory. 
How many sections exist within his Department which deal with subjects of concern to the people of the Australian Capital Territory which are in other parts of Australia the concern of local government councils and State Parliaments. 
To what extent does the possession of such plenary powers by the Commonwealth Parliament support  a  case for additional representation over and above that justified by the number of electors. 
asked the Minister, for the Interior, upon notice:  . 
Have there been any inter-departmental discussions between the Treasury, the National Capital Development Commission and his Department on the one hand and various New South Wales departments on the other concerning the problem of the acquisition of land in areas adjacent to the Australian Capital Territory by residents  of  the Australian Capital Territory. 
. If so, have these discussions resulted in  a  report being submitted either to him or' the Prime Minister? 
If a report has been submitted, (a) ' does it recommend (i) the extension of the' Australian Capital Territory northward into New South Wales, (ii) the joint development by the Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments ' of the surrounding land through  a  joint development corporation and (iii) any other steps to overcome the intensive private acquistion of land in the areas adjacent to the Australian Capital Territory and (b) will he make available  a  copy of the report? . 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Attorney-General,  upon  notice: 
What is the average waiting time for civil cases in the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory from when they are set down to when they come on for hearing. 
Has this time increased significantly in the last 12 months. 
Has the Attorney-General received requests from the resident judge or judges and/or the Law Society and/or the Barristers Association of the Australian Capital Territory for a third residential judge to be appointed to the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Have steps been taken to select a third judge; if so. what stage has been reached in these arrangements. 
When will the appointment of a third judge be announced and what are the reasons for the apparent delay. 
1 wish to raise during the debate on the motion that the House do now adjourn the problem of freedom of expression in the Commonwealth Public Service. Earlier tonight I came from a public meeting which was called by the Council of Social Service of the Australian Capital Territory. It was intended that the meeting would discuss the question: Do we need a health, education and welfare authority in the Australian Capital Territory? It was a public meeting which was advertised, and it was attended by 50 or so people. After the discussion was over, the point was made that a number of the participants in the audience were public servants and the fact that they were public servants had hindered and made it difficult for them to participate in discussion on the subject of health, education and welfare. If that is true - and I believe it is true - then it is a shocking state of affairs. 
This problem is concentrated and very much emphasised in Australia. We have enactments, the best known being regulation 34(b) of the Commonwealth Public Service Regulations, section 55 of the Commonwealth Service Act and sections such as section 70 of the Commonwealth Crimes Act. The net result of them is this: Public servants are restricted unnecessarily in their rights as citizens. They just cannot come out and comment on matters on which, as citizens, they have a right to comment. It is not as though the right to comment, if they exercised it, would interfere with the proper performance of their duties. They are in effect muzzled. 
A number of representations have been made to government by various public service organisations over the years. One set of representations to which I wish to draw attention emanated from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations. This body commenced its inquiries as long ago as August 1970 when certain representations were made to the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  urging that the Public Service regulations be amended in order to remove these unnecessary restrictions on the right of public servants to make public comment. 
As far as I am informed, no profitable result was produced by those representations. Submissions then were made to the Public Service Board and were completed in June 1971, again with no apparent result at that time. On 15th March 1972 a deputation from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations attended on the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  again with no profitable result from the exchange of views that took place. But one thing followed from it. Following the discussions a letter dated 16th March 1972 was written to the Prime Minister and it has not even been acknowledged, let alone answered. The letter complied with certain undertakings or promises that had been given at the meeting. Amongst those undertakings was some information that was supplied to the Prime Minister on the American experience - the way the Americans solve this problem, or at least approached it. The American approach contrasts very, very favourably with the miserable way in which we approach the problem in this country. 
There is, for example, a United States Freedom of Information Act which should, I suggest, be adopted in Australia. The Act requires that there be set up systems within the public service which would make available to the public all sorts of information that here one just cannot get at. In other words, it pierces the shroud of secrecy with which we surround our public service organisations. AH descriptions of central and field organisations in the United States have to be on public scrutiny and available to the public. Statements of the general course and method by which the functions of such a federal agency are channelled and determined, including the nature and requirement of all formal and informal procedures, have to be made available. All rules of procedure and description of forms must be readily available. All substantive rules of general applicability adopted must also be made available to the public. These are elementary things in the United States as indeed they are in other countries. The United Kingdom has made great progress in this area of the relationship that should exist between a public service and the public without any detrimental effect on the public service. No-one hears of criticism in the United Kingdom about this more open approach to the workings of the public service, yet here we do nothing about it notwithstanding that representations have been made now, going back to something like August 1970. 
The most recent case that has been brought to my knowledge is one in the Northern Territory which concerns  Mr Wesley  Smith who, it would seem from reports of the 'Northern Territory News' of 5th and 6th April 1971, is an agronomist working in the Northern Terirtory and employed by the Primary Industries Branch of the Administration.  His  work does not bring him into contact with the Aborigines of the area. He is a man who would seem to have strong views, as indeed any citizen is entitled to have, on the question of Aboriginal land rights. In his capacity as an ordinary citizen he chose to make a statement about Aboriginal land rights. This statement was critical of Government policy. 
One would have thought that as an ordinary citizen, whether he be public servant or not, in any enlightened country he would be entitled to make such a statement and not be stopped, hindered or subjected to any criminal law. But things do not happen that way. That man, whom the editorial writers of the 'Northern Terirtory News' described as a champion of Aboriginal causes, found himself fined $20 for each of a number of offences he was alleged to have committed by making public comments on Aboriginal land rights. It was something that did not concern his work at all and was outside his duties of employment. He was found to have infringed regulation 34 (b) of the Public Service Regulations and section 55 of the Public Service Act. As I have said, he was fined. 
Surely this is a deplorable state of affairs. Not only have representations been made persistently by the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations to government over a very long period of time with no result but now, at this late stage of the day, we find people like Wesley Smith, who is apparently a very highly regarded public servant of the Northern Territory and who has taken it upon himself to express interest in matters of public concern, are being treated virtually like criminals.  Mr Wesley  Smith has had a black mark placed against his name although he was acting not in the course of his professional employment as an agronomist but in another field altogether. 
I recall the case of Murray Syme in New South Wales some years ago. He was a lawyer in the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor's Office and he chose to associate himself with the moratorium movement. Because of speeches he made about moratorium campaigns at that time in Sydney he was disciplined and steps of a punitive nature were taken against him under what I call notorious regulation 34 (b). Murray Syme chose not to put up with that. Being a lawyer having an earning capacity outside the Public Service he resigned and sought employment elsewhere. In this way a fine young man who could have contributed a lot to the Public Service went into private practice. I ask the Prime Minister to give serious and sympathetic consideration to the representations made by the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations so that Australia may be brought into line with the enlightened thinking overseas in the United Kingdom and in the United States of America. It is not as though this has not been talked about previously in this country. There have been several articles published in learned journals. Professor Whitmore wrote an article entitled 'The Public Servant as a Citizen' based upon a comparison of the way public servants are treated in Australia and in overseas countries. A general summation of that article is that the quality and efficiency of the public service does not suffer at all but rather is improved because of enhanced morale that results from the opening up of the system foisted upon us. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of a meeting of approximately 1,000 public servants which took place in Canberra yesterday and of its resolutions condemning the Federal Government and, in particular, the Prime Minister for his damaging, unwarranted and intimidatory public utterances against the salary-wags interests of public servants without an examination of the justification of the various pay claims? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Does the Commonwealth have any plans to increase the size of the Australian Capital Territory; if so, what are the plans? 
Has the Commonwealth entered into any arrangements with the New South Wales Government or has it initiated any plans on its own behalf towards the construction of the Billilingra Dam between Canberra and Cooma? 
If so, (a) what are these arrangements or plans? (b) why is it considered necessary to build the Dam? (c) when is it anticipated that the Dam will be commenced? (d) what area of land will.be covered when the Dam is filled? (e) have any landowners in the area been advised of the plans of the Commonwealth or the New South Wales Government concerning the Dam? (f) what area of land, apart from that needed for the construction of the Dam, will be acquired by the Commonwealth as a catchment area for the Dam? 
Have Commonwealth employees been placing pegs along the Shannon's Flat road between Cooma and Yaouk or doing survey work or other kind of work in this area? 
If so, for how long have they been involved in this work, and why? 
Have any landholders in the area been contacted by Departmental officers to explain the work being undertaken? 
If not, will the Department ensure that landholders, who may be affected in any way by the results of the work being undertaken, are told and consulted by Departmental officers? 
1 direct a question without notice to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has a request been received from the Government of Bangladesh for wheat to be purchased on some kind of terms from the Australian Government? If so, 1 ask him why no public statement has been made about it, and whether there are any reasons why the request cannot be acceded to. In view of the obvious need for food in that country, will the request be treated with the utmost expedition? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
ls there constantly increasing aircraft noise over Canberra. 
If so, what action is proposed by the Minister. 
 At the moment the House is engaged in a cognate debate on 3 Bills. The Conciliation and Arbitration Bill is concerned with amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the other Bills are the Seat of Government (Administration) Bill and the Northern Territory (Administration) Bill. They are related and I hope to say something about the Seat of Government (Administration) Bill in the time available to me. However I am principally concerned with the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I suggest that if one looks at the second reading speech of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  to try to discover from what he said the objectives that the Government intended to achieve by introducing this Bill, one gets into a morass of confusion. 
For example;, the first reference the Minister made was to the legislation being introduced against a background of increasing industrial unrest and serious wage-induced inflation. At one stage of his speech one would think that this legislation was introduced to cure or overcome the problem in some way. I know from my experience of the courts that in trying to interpret legislation they look at the social conditions of the time and at the evil that exists and has to be removed. They look at the legislation in that light. Obviously the Minister would have us believe that in some way this Bill is intended to overcome or relieve a background of increasing industrial unrest, serious wage-induced inflation and rising prices. The Minister proceeded to identify a number of other things that he hopes to achieve with the Bill. He makes the amalgamation of unions very difficult to achieve. He introduces the notion of sanctions. That is the big clubthe criminal sanction. The threat is that if one does not do what the Minister wants one will be fined and ultimately put into gaol. That is a nice way of achieving harmony in industrial relations. 
The Minister spoke of extending the system of appeals. This is a method that does not trust anyone. It provides a built in system whereby one person can challenge a decision favouring another person for as long as he wants. The appeal can continue on and on. When taken out of context this is a nice ideal which cannot be quibbled with. In fact, some of the notions in this Bill come into that category - for example, the concept of court controlled appeals and the concept of increasing industrial democracy in trade unions. Put as expressions like that, one cannot quibble with them at all. But one has to bear in mind when one looks at these slogans, these expressions introduced by this kind of government, such as 'increased democracy and 'more freedom to appeal', a very real social purpose is being chased. Honourable members need not think that this is peculiar to this House. Take the word 'freedom'. That great and tragic war in Vietnam is being fought out by both opposing sides today under the banner of freedom. People have always done this. Government supporters come into this House and say: We will utter platitudes; we will utter things that people cannot quibble with: we will assume that they have been sufficiently brainwashed so that if we use these attractive words they will support us.' Well, they may be right. No-one will know until the end of this year. 
But one hopes that the people will see behind the motives of this Government. I hope in the short time available to me this afternoon in this debate to be able to suggest some reasons why Government supporters should not be believed when they say what they have said. For example, they have talked about serious wage induced inflation. The whole purport of the Minister's speech is to put a wage freeze on claims for increased wages and the suggestion is that it is the increased wages which produce rising costs. I do not know how often we have heard that thought uttered in this House by honourable members who sit on the Government side. It is nonsense to say that increased wages produce rising prices. A beautiful little piece of evidence that became available only overnight was the speech made by a man who is probably in as good position as anyone to speak on this matter. I refer to  Mr Rattigan,  the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board. From time to time we hear that the Tariff Board plays a part in rising prices, that interest policies play a part in rising prices and that restrictive trade practices play a part in rising rices. In a speech to the Swedish Chamber of Commerce for Australia at a meeting held in Sydney  Mr Rattigan,  the  Chairman  of the Board, said: 
Unused tariff protection- 
I emphasise the words 'unused tariff protection' - waa responsible for about 40 per cent of price increases in highly concentrated industries during periods of peak activity, according to the results of a study by the Tariff Board which were published yesterday. 
I am reading from a report in the Canberra Times' of 11th May. The report continues: 
At the very end of the speech VI r Rattigan drew attention to industries which had excess protection being able 'to pass on automatically and as a matter of course, in the form of higher prices, any increases in their costs'. 
The article continued: 
An empirical study of the importance of unused tariffs as a factor in generating price increases- 
In generating price increases, not just going along with them, accommodating them or being consistent with them - in Australia was recently undertaken within the Board',  Mr Rattigan  said. 'The results indicate that for highly concentrated industries the existence mid extent of unused tariff protection has a market) influence on price changes, especially during periods of buoyant activity.' lt will be clear that, in this general conte.st, the decision to accelerate the tariff review has important implications for the health of the Australian economy.' 
The results of the analysis indicated that: unused effective protection was responsible for from 37 to 40 per cent of price increases with a very high probability in each case- 
I repeat the words 'a very high probability in each case' - that the figures were nol extraordinary; that every 1 per cent reduction in unused effective protection would result in a 3 to 4 per cent reduction in the rate of price rise . . . 
The article goes on to say - and I emphasise that this is very important in the context of this debate:  . . and thai wage gains in excess of productivity gain were not strongly linked to price increases. 
That is what was said by  Mr Rattigan, Chairman  of the Tariff Board, who is one of the most influential and learned men on this subject in Australia. It is worth repeating that wage gains in excess of productivity gains were not strongly linked to price increases. How does one read that with what the Minister said in his second reading speech, putting forward his justification for this iniquitous piece of legislation and saying that it was all necessary in some way to curb wage induced inflation, with the strong suggestion that inflation and rising prices were caused by wages going up? That is the fraud that has been perpetrated on the people of Australia by this Government which has sold or is trying to sell to the people a bill of goods that is patently false. If the whole piece of legislation rests on that lie - and I say it does - one is justified in looking at the other clauses in this Bill to see how much credibility can be given to them. 
Let us take one part, that which deals with amalgamations. As I have already said, it is easy to talk about industrial democracy but every one of us, even honourable members on the other side, must accept that amalgamations are good. If one looks for the reason why productivity is down in this country and if one links one's mind for the moment to industrial disputes it will be seen that demarcation disputes play a part. If there is a cause for trying to overcome and reduce demarcation disputes, surely amalgamation is to be encouraged. What does this Government do? It puts every barrier, every wall, every hazard and every difficulty in the way of unions trying to achieve rationalised amalgamation. I do not think it is being unfair if we say that we know why the Government is doing this. The Government is doing this because its political ally, the Democratic Labor Party of Australia, has demanded that it do so and this Government, being the sort of Government that it is, with its low level of political fortunes and fearing that it cannot afford to offend this political ally, has obeyed the whip. The whip may not yet have been struck, but it has been raised above the Government's head. The Government has clone what that minority group has demanded that it should do. 
The Government has introduced legislation that makes amalgamation almost impossible. Court controlled ballots can be treated in the same way. What about sanctions? What good are sanctions going to do in this particular context of industrial relations? This Government is trying to put fear, not confidence, into the people. It is trying to put uncertainty, not assurance, into the minds of the people. I come back to this thought: I suppose it has been said more often by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  than by anyone whom I can think of, but the principal distinguishing feature, of the governing parties of this country - the Liberal Party and the Country Party - is the feature of divisibility. They do not stand for a united whole Australia working together. They might even believe their own propaganda that they do take this stand. That would not be unique for them. But when one looks at the policies of this Government, when one looks at the legislation which it tries to enact, when one looks at the legislation which it opposes and criticises, and the actions and social movements that it opposes, one sees a divisibility which creates a system that assumes conflict. It creates a system of checks and balances with this man standing up against that man. The Government assumes that they cannot come together; it encourages them not to come together. 
I shall quote another example from this Bill. It relates to the distinction between conciliation and arbitration. We. all know, or at least anyone who has had experience in the courts will know, that in the long run the settlement of disputes is far better than the adjudication of disputes. I suggest that the old system works very well in this field. For one reason or another a union advocate or an employer's advocate might want to commence proceedings and run them on for a little while to see how they are getting on, but then they will put their heads together or adopt a suggestion from the conciliator, after which a deal is struck between them and the whole matter is amicably settled. This would be less likely to happen under this new distinction, this artificial distinction between conciliators on the one side and arbitrators on the other side, once a certain stage has been reached. It will not be ruled out, but it will certainly be discouraged and made less likely to happen. I could go on giving examples of this, but the fact is that this Bill contributes nothing to the welfare of Australia. lt does not effect the reforms that are needed in conciliaton and arbitration legislation. It is for those, reasons that we on this side of the House oppose it. 
In the short time available to me in this debate I want to say just a few words on the Seat of Government (Administration) Bill 1972 which the Opposition does not oppose. 
I suggest that an interesting principle is to be found in this Bill. It is well known that I represent the Australian Capital Territory - a Commonwealth territory. It is well known also, I hope, that the Australian Capital Territory has no government of its own - no territorial government, no local government; nothing of that sort. The laws that are made for the Territory are made in this House by way of ordinance, and they cannot really be debated here. I have said that over and over again, and I suppose I will continue saying it for some time until there is a change of government. However, this legislation is a reminder of an interesting fact about the Commonwealth territories to be found in our Constitution. It is that, in large measure, the Commonwealth territories are not the subject of the Australian Constitution. They are governed by what is called the territorial power, and many of the safeguards that exist in the Constitution for other Australians do not apply here. 
For example, for what it is worth, the right of other Australians to trial by jury, if there is a trial on indictment, does not apply in the Australian Capital Territory if government sees fit to change it. I say that for what it is worth because honourable members who are lawyers will know what. I am talking about when I speak of the interpretation given to that section by the High Court. I repeat, that safeguard, watered down as it has been, does not apply in the Australian Capital Territory. Further, Section 55 of the Australian Constitution which deals with money Bills, does not apply to the laws of this Territory. Again, the fundamental requirement that if property is to be resumed or acquired from Australians anywhere outside the Australian Capital Territory, it must be acquired on just terms, does not apply here. One could go on. What is interesting, and what prompted me to make these comments, is that many of the fundamental freedoms in the Australian Constitution do not apply to the Australian Capital Territory. 
The reminder of the situation comes from the fact that the Commonwealth can say on this occasion, 'We will take this situation and for our own purposes we will give a meaning to the word "industrial" that we cannot give to it anywhere else in Australia'. Surely it is time that the people of the Australian Capital Territory were treated as Australians. There are something like 165,000 people living in this city at the moment, and the population is going up at the rate of 15,000 or more every year. All these laws to which I have referred distinguish against them. The Government gives a meaning to the word industrial' for the purposes of a policy, with which I do not quibble on this occasion, and a meaning that it cannot give to the word anywhere else. Personally, I thank the Government for that because it has drawn attention to the fact that good systems can be made to operate here. The opposite argument is so often put. It is not long ago that the land tenure system of this Territory was changed just because it was not understood. It was changed because it was thought that it could not be allowed to be different from the system in the rest of Australia. The housing system here has been run down and is in the rapid process of being destroyed because it was thought that it could not be allowed to be any different, and certainly no better than that in the rest of the country. The same applies to the education system of this Territory. 
In conclusion, I take one comfort - one small comfort, perhaps - from the presentation of these 2 Bills. It is that government at long last has seen fit to introduce this second Bill, the Seat of Government (Administration) Bill 1972, which recognises that it is possible to take advantage of the system here and to give this meaning to the word 'industrial'. However, when one comes back to look at the principal amending Bill, the Conciliation and Arbitration Bm. as a rational person surely one could have no doubt about its effect, no matter what banner, what flag the Government tries to erect over this terrible piece of legislation. Firstly, it propagates a lie. The Government says. 'By this Bill we will sit on wages in order to keep prices down'.  Mr Rattigan  has given the lie to that. One need not go on and say, 'Why not bring a prices justification tribunal into existence, or why not look at other causes of price increases?' There is your first lie. 
When the Government says, 'We will do something about industrial unrest', and it introduces legislation that is designed, deliberately or recklessly, to cause industrial unrest, one can only think that that too is done deliberately in some miserable, almost wicked hope that with no positive policies of its own in this important election year, the Government will in some way be able to distract the people. The Government, having a bankruptcy of ideas for solving the problems of this country, and knowing that the Labor Party is associated with the trade union movement, and quite rightly so, hopes that it will be able to frighten the people off, and that in some way it will draw a red nerring across the path of the people of Australia. 
I have just a couple of questions I wish to put to the Minister. I am genuinely concerned and perhaps a little confused in regard to this matter. My questions arise out of proposed new section 28. Already a lot has been said about the expression 'the public interest*. I share the cencern about the uncertainty of it. I ask the Minister whether he can assist honourable members in regard to this. When one looks at the expression 'the public interest' in the context in which it first occurs in proposed new section 28 (2.) it will be seen that it refers to the giving of power to a conciliation commissioner to refuse to certify a memorandum that has been reached by agreement between the parties where the parties have struck a bargain and are prepared to put the terms into a memorandum. This is what they want to do and they put it before the commissioner for certification. This provision will give power to a commissioner to refuse to certify the memorandum if he considers it is not in the public interest. So be it. 
Turning to the proposed new section 35, which I appreciate is not under discussion but which is linked with proposed new section 28, the right of appeal is given to certain listed people. Proposed new section 35 sub-section (3.) reads: 
An appeal does not lie under the last preceding sub-section unless, in the opinion of the Commission, the matter is of such importance that, in the public interest, an appeal should lie. 
That contains the expression 'the public interest'. Presumably there is to be a decision by a conciliation commissioner saying: 1 will not certify this agreement that you, the vitally interested people concerned, have reached. 1 will not certify it because it is not in the public interest'. Then the Bill gives the right of appeal to the Commission which says that it cannot hear that appeal unless it is in the public interest that it should hear the appeal. It seems to me to be a bizarre situation when a commissioner may say that in the public interest he will not do something and then to let someone say 'I will appeal against that decision' and then to give somebody else power to ask 'well, is it sufficiently in the public interest that in the first place the public interest was or was not involved or that that interest was not sufficiently public or not of sufficient interest to the public that an appeal should lie? It appears that there are 2 different meanings given to the words 'public interest' in that sense. I am confused. I seek some assistance from the Minister on this matter. 
The other question I put to the Minister relates to appeals. There may well be some other clause in this lengthy Bill which I have missed but as I have read the Bill and in particular proposed new section 35 which deals with appeals the Bill gives to the parties the right of appeal in respect of a decision by a commissioner who will not certify a memorandum because it is not in the public interest. Paragraph (b) (ii) of sub-section (4.) says that an appeal may be made by a party to the agreement in the case of an appeal under paragraph (b) of the sub-section, which is the paragraph which refers to a decision of a commissioner not to certify a memorandum because it is not in the public interest. Does it follow that where 2 representative interests - employer and employee - who have struck a bargain, who have reached an agreement and have had someone else, either a commissioner or some outside intervener, come along and say that it is not in the public interest that these people should be allowed to give expression to their agreement, the right of appeal should be restricted to one of the parties? Is that what this Government is seeking to achieve? If it is, that too is bizarre. Is this Government saying that in the case of people who have struck a bargain and who have been stopped from implementing it or stopped from giving effect to it because of a commissioner's decision that it is not in the public interest, one f the people who was a party to the agreement and who now has no dispute with the other shall appeal? Is that what the Minister is trying to say? 1 ask the Minister those 2 questions. There may be something in the Bill which I have missed but I have been looking at the Bill for some time and I cannot see an answer to my queries. 
May 1 put this to the Minister? In his second reading speech the Minister said that the Bill was intended to overcome industrial unrest. How will it overcome the problem of industrial unrest to create machinery like this where people who have reached agreements find that the Minister allows someone else to intervene and say: "The agreement is not in the public interest; the parties shall remain in dispute; we do not care what happens; you will continue your dispute.'? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Public Service Board representative,  Mr W.  P. Butler, when giving evidence before the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory at its inquiry into employment opportunities say that the Public Service Board has registered for employment quite a number of school leavers, many of whom, at least, would have been employed by the Service had there not been a reduction in recruitment. 
Did  Mr Butler  also say that he was not sure how many of these, having been told that there was no available employment for them in the Commonwealth Service, have been able to find other jobs through the Commonwealth Employment Service or through their own initiative. 
Will he supply details of the number of persons referred to by  Mr Butler  as registered for employment in each of the last 5 years. 
If the records show the registration' figures on a monthly, quarterly or other periodical basis, will he also supply those figures. 
How many persons were accepted for employment during each of the same periods. 
How many persons who have registered for employment have been advised that there is no employment available for them or that their request for employment has been declined during each of the same periods. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the State Attorneys-General have met to draw up guidelines for a convention of the States to review the Australian Constitution. 
If so, was the Commonwealth represented at the meeting; if not, why not 
Can the Attorney-General say whether there is unanimity amongst the State Governments regarding the need for substantial reform of the Constitution. 
Will the Attorney-General do everything in his power to ensure that the Commonwealth is represented at any future meetings and at any convention. 
Will the Attorney-General also inform the State Attorneys-General that the Commonwealth Government agrees that there is a need for constitutional reform. 
Is it possible for the Commonwealth to arrange an election of constitution convention delegates at the same time as the next General Elections for the House of Representatives so that non-Parliamentary delegates could then join with Parliamentary delegates at a convention and begin drafting reforms to the Constitution; if so, will the Attorney-General advise the Government to do this. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has a decision been made to construct the Googong Dam on the Queanbeyan River above the point where the Queanbeyan River flows into the Molonglo River and thence into Lake Burley Griffin? 
If so, when is it expected that (a) construction will commence? (b) construction will be completed? and (c) the Dam will commence to fill? 
What is the likely period, of time over which the Dam will fill? 
Does the Queanbeyan River at present dilute the pollution and toxic qualities of the Molonglo River, resulting from residual zinc deposits at Captains Flat, by a factor of about three? 
If . so, (a) will this dilution factor be removed during the time the Dam is under construction and filling and (b) will it also be diminished after the Dam is full as a result of loss of water by evaporation? 
Have any investigations or studies been undertaken into any of these matters? 
Will an increased amount of pollution result in Lake Burley Griffin because of the construction of the Dam; if so, what investigations or studies have been carried out on this problem? 
If investigations or studies have been carried out, what do they reveal in respect of (a) the likely percentage increase in zinc pollution in Lake Burley Griffin? (b) the likely destruction or percentage diminution of the fish population of the Lake and the likely time this destruction or diminution will remain? (c) the likely percentage increase in weed and sludge and other plant content of the Lake as a result of the destruction of the fish population of the Lake during the time when the Dam is filling? (d) the likely cost of eradicating the weed and removing the sludge and other excessive plant content of the Lake referred to in part (c)? (e) the likely cost of altering the shape and increasing the depth of the Lake in order to eradicate weed? (f) the necessary shortterm measures that will have to be taken to avoid or overcome these dangers to the Lake? (g) the necessary long-term measures which will have to be taken to overcome the basic problem which results from the condition at Captains Flat? and (h) the likely estimated cost of (i) the short-term and (ii) the long-term measures? 
If these matters have not been considered, will he ensure that they are considered? 
What is the estimated cost of construction of the Googong Dam? 
What is the estimated value of the land that will be lost to use when the Dam fills? 
What is the estimated cost of the alternative proposal that a pipeline bring water from the Tantangera Dam in the Snowy Mountains? 
What are the advantages and disadvantages of this alternative proposal? 
Has an inter-departmental working group been formed with officers of the relevant Commonwealth Departments, the National Capital Development Commission and the New South Wales Department of Mines? 
If so, has the group yet made a report? 
If a report has been made, will he make it available? 
If the group has reported and recommended that work be carried out at Captains Flat, (a) has the Commonwealth Government entered into any arrangements with the New South Wales Government for the work to be carried out? and (b) when is it expected that the work will commence? 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Has he given approval for the Australian Capital Territory to have its first lottery conducted by a private company known as Foundation of Youth Ltd. 
If so, will he consider the needs of old people which might also be satisfied by such a lottery. 
If another company is formed for the purpose of managing a lottery to assist old people, will he give a similar approval to that given to Foundation of Youth Ltd; if so, what requirements would have to be met for this approval to be given. 
If lotteries are to be run in Canberra for these purposes, will the Government consider a government-operated lottery which is responsible to government as in the case of New South Wales. 
Has the Advisory Council of the A.C.T. requested a Government lottery for these purposes; if so, when was the request made. 
Why has the request not been acceded to. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is there any reason why contraceptives cannot be included in the Therapeutic Goods Act so that the Government can enforce appropriate standards of manufacture on contraceptives made in Australia. 
If not, will the Minister take steps to have locally made contraceptives included in the Act to enable these standards to be enforced. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Services in his capacity as the Minister responsible for the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act. Is he aware of the case of  Mr Bede  Tongs, a Commonwealth public servant working in Canberra, who on 15th February 1972, whilst driving a motor vehicle in the course of his employment with the Commonwealth, stopped to render assistance to a lady motorist whose car had broken down? The fan blade of the lady's car flew off, struck him in the left eye and destroyed his sight. Is the Minister aware that his claim for workers' compensation benefits has been refused by the Commissioner? I ask the Minister: Is this the sort of result that was contemplated by the Government when it introduced this legislation last year? Also, will he take steps under section 20 of &lt;he Act, with the Commissioner, to see that the whole matter is reconsidered? 
I support the motion before the House. It seems to me an incredible situation when the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  can come into the House and say that there is no need for urgency because after more than 2 years his Government has not seen fit to bring this legislation into the House and to proceed with it to the stage to which it should be taken. 
That is an incredible statement. We all know why it has not been brought in. The Government has been prodded by honourable members who sit on the Government benches. The last  speaker,  the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  the honourable member for  Moreton  (Mr  Killen), the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  and others at various times have pushed, prodded and complained, with good cause, asking that this legislation be proceeded with. The reason it has not been proceeded with to date is perhaps not specific but surely is reasonably well known. There are conservative elements - perhaps I can put it this way - in the Australian community, reflected at certain State levels. They do not want this legislation proceeded with, notwithstanding that it would be the overwhelming wish, I believe, of Australian people, and of all the members of this House, that this legislation should become law. I doubt if there would be any person in this House who would not want the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill to become law, yet it is being stalled. 
I appreciate that but there is an obvious connection between the 2 Bills. The connection has been spelled out at great length by the Leader of the Opposition and by other speakers. It is not for me to be repetitious here, but- 
Quite so, and 1 am not canvassing your expression of opinion but surely it is relevant for me to put reasons why the motion should succeed at this stage? 
The reason I am puling it this way is that we have already seen 2 years go by. Other speakers have referred to the need to clarify the continental shelf issue with Indonesia and with Papua New Guinea. There is the pressing problem of the uncertainty that surrounds the validity of some oil leases off the Australian coast. Who does give title to leases of that nature? Does the sovereignty in these matters rest with the States or with the Commonwealth? Surely this uncertainty makes the matter one of urgency and justifies it being brought on now? Uncertainty flows from the fact that the States do not or may not have legal sovereignty and, as previous speakers have said, this is a matter for the High Court. While the Government persists in stalling with this legislation and not bringing it forward to its resolution there will be no finality and the uncertainty will go on. There is no doubt that uncertainty is not a good thing. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  almost as an act of grace, has said he will allow some debate on the continental shelf legislation. What good will that do? Is that some kind of quid pro quo for some members, perhaps on his own side of the House? Is there to be some little concession allowed with a few members able to speak, after which the matter will be adjourned again? How at some future time does anyone bring it back into the House? When is there to be finality? When will the uncertainty be brought to an end? 
As the  Speaker  has reminded me,  a  motion to suspend Standing Orders has strict limitations and one cannot go beyond those limitations and into the realms of the merits of the Bill itself. One is continually prevented from doing so, and rightly so, under the Standing Orders. If a motion to suspend the Standing Orders has such limited use how does the substantive matter come back on? I look at the honourable member for Berowra. Who brings the legislation back to the House? Where does the initiative come from? Is it to be sailed forever notwithstanding that there are important international conventions and agreements pending, the ones we have been told about? Is this uncertainty to go on forever? Is Australia, with such an enormous coastline, to be the only nation in the world that cannot make up iti mind about this matter? Do we not kne w, 72 years after the Commonwealth has seen formed, who owns the off-shore are: s along our coastline? Australia will be the laughing stock of the world. I should like to know who will bring the matter back here? The Government has control of the legislation and graciously it says that it will allow a few people to have a few words on the subject tonight and then it will again adjourn the matter. That is making a mockery of the whole process. I press this matter with all the points of emphasis and urgency that this legislation calls to mind. I recall the points made over and over again by the honourable member for Moreton in articles he has written for newspapers and speeches he has made in this House, but it appears at this stage that for some quid pro quo, some pressure, some little inducement perhaps, I do not know what, somewhere along the line this evening the Gre seems to have gone out of members on the Government benches. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Do some employees of the Canberra Community Hospital receive rental subsidies. 
If so, how many employees are at present (a) receiving and (b) not receiving rental subsidies. 
How are the subsidies determined. 
Are there categories of employment where the hospital does not employ married couples to avoid paying rental subsidies. 
What are the (a) various employment categories and (b) other qualifications that have to be satisfied before a hospital employee becomes entitled to a rental subsidy. 
 One could be forgiven, in listening to some of the remarks of the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  if one overlooked for the time being the relation between this Parliament and the people of Australia. The honourable member's almost final remarks seemed to consist of asides between members of the Liberal Party as if they were almost in club. I hope he will forgive me for saying that, but that is the impression I had. He spoke about the problems that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who is sitting at the table, will have. Like many honourable members present in the chamber today, I have been greatly impressed by the speeches that have come from the Government side of the House. I look around the chamber and I see that there are 3 members of the Australian Country Party here, about 10 members of the Liberal Party and 14 or so members of the Australian Labor Party. I do not make any point of that, but it is an indication of something. This Bill has great national importance, as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Berowra have said, and yet being technical, as it is, almost of necessity it does not have great appeal for many members of this House. They are outside, working in committees or on other matters. They are not to be blamed for not being here, but the people of Australia are listening to the debate on the broadcasting system that links us with the world. 
We heard the honourable member for Moreton make a magnificent speech. I have complimented him on it. In the short time that I have been here I do not think I have heard him or anyone else make a better speech in this Parliament. I have heard a number of other people say that, too. He listed, in impressive manner, the various reasons why this piece of legislation was urgent. If I counted correctly, I think he gave 6 reasons why its enactment was urgent in the national interest. This is the national Parliament. The honourable member spoke with considerable personal feeling of the growing, searching feeling among Australians for some sense of national identity, purpose or fulfilment. I think that a number of us share this feeling with him. Yet here again I fear there is a complete abdication of the role of this Parliament when it comes to having to consider a piece of legislation of this sort. 
The honourable member for Berowra reiterated the urgency underlying this legislation. Nothing could be more important at this stage. Here we are calling ourselves an Australian nation and, after 72 years in existence as a Commonwealth, we are still trying to make up our minds about who owns or has jurisdiction over the immediate sea around our coast. Has it something to do with the States or is it owned by the Australian people as a whole through the national Parliament? The honourable member for Moreton spoke of his difficulty in understanding the emotionalism that has crept into the debate on this Bill. I have difficulty following it myself. I thought I was going to have a little light shone on the subject when I heard the honourable member for Berowra talk of dried blood. I thought: Hullo, here it comes. This is something that happened a long time ago - back in May 1970. It was certainly before my entrance into the Parliament. I have only read something about it. But surely before we go on we have to consider what is the reason and the problem preventing this Parliament from reaching agreement on legislation that everybody unanimously agrees is desirable. As I said last night, there would not be a man in this House who would not say that this legislation should become law. However, it is not to become law. What sort of strange quirk, odd situation or procedure have we created in the national Parliament that produces that result? 
If honourable members went out into the streets of the towns and cities of Australia and said to the people: 'Do you know what they are talking about down there in the Parliament in Canberra at the moment?' Honourable members would not be believed if they said: 'They are trying to make up their minds whether to pass a law that everyone says should be passed; they are talking as if there is some hidden, secret reason why the legislation cannot be passed at this stage*. That is why I come back to what the honourable member for Berowra said. He seemed to discuss this matter as though they were in club. He would have us believe that there are problems with the States, or with the Premier of Queensland. Reference already has been made today to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and his backwoodsmanlike attitude to that sort of problem. Perhaps those were the sort of problems that the honourable member had in mind. I cannot help but think that they are problems peculiar to the party system of government that has grown up and is part of our tradition. But be that as it may, surely we can do something about this. If the honourable member for Moreton is correct, and he persuaded me; if the honourable member for Berowra is correct and he persuaded me, and when the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  speaks I am sure he will add further weight to the arguments that this legislation has to go through, why can it not go through? The honourable member for Moreton nods his head and I thank him. 
Yesterday the honourable member for Berowra said: 'Oh well, the Labor Party in opposition has reactivated the legislation; it has brought the legislation on*. It is our job to do that. We believe that this legislation should become law. Frankly I do not understand why the Government should adopt this course just because this legislation may cause some embarrassment in government ranks because there is a difference of opinion or because of something in club. Are we to act as children or are we to rise above that? Do we simply say: 'All right, with all the feeling that the honourable members for Moreton and Berowra have displayed about the importance and urgency of this legislation are we to act like children and say that we are not going to embarrass someone?' I am not trying to seduce honourable members opposite and ask them to come over here. There is surely a greater principle involved. If this legislation is important and urgent as both honourable members from the other side have said it is, what strange procedural parliamentary system have we created that brings about a result that legislation that everyone wants is not going to be enacted? To mv mind this is bizarre. 
If we went out on the streets of the cities of this country and said: 'Do you know that we do not know in Australia in 1972 who has legislative jurisdiction over the immediate waters off the coast of Australia, although nearly every other country with problems similar to ours and other different problems has solved those problems far better than we have and that we still cannot make up our minds', they would laugh at us. They would say that this is what they have always thought of politicians - that they are lazy, hopeless, overpaid, underworked and this sort of thing. They would be right. Yet, having said that, they are quite wrong. Anyone who has participated in or listened to the debate today would see the sense of purpose of both speakers from the Government side. Again I say: What peculiar procedure have we created that can produce this insane result? 
I do not want to go into the legal side of this. Of course, I am a lawyer and it is of credit to the legal profession that lawyers have taken up this subject. This was done by the honourable member for Moreton in a very lengthy and fine speech. But obviously wc are faced with a political problem. The nettle has to be grasped; the bullet has to bc bitten- one can use any trite expression that one likes. But here we have a piece of legislation that this Parliament wants to enact. It is a piece of legislation that people would believe was enacted years ago. They would have great difficulty in believing that we have never put this matter at rest. Surely it is time it was put at rest so that we can go on as an Australian nation and play our part in the international conferences on this subject next year and so that we can get rid of the uncertainty posed so eloquently by the honourable member for Moreton in a set of examination questions given to the captains of naval ships. I speak here of the uncertainty that surrounds the Australian coast and the problem that arose with the Van Gogh' in the Gulf of Carpentaria.  also mention the idea of drawing base lines and the conventions that were adopted in 1958. It is time. I am sorry; I should not have said that because perhaps it is embarrassing in view of a slogan that has been adopted by my Party recently. However, I repeat it. It is time that we grew up and enacted this legislation. It is time we got rid of the uncertainty in this regard. 
I was attracted by the argument of the honourable member for Berowra, although I think that it was referred to in passing in an earlier speech made a year or so ago, that if this matter is to be resolved by the High Court - and I accept that it is proper that it should be resolved by the High Court - the only way to do this is to enact this legislation. We cannot seek an advisory opinion from the High Court as can our Canadian brothers. It has to be done in this way. Presumably a lot of thought went into the preparation of this Bill. No-one quibbles with it or argues about it. It poses a problem. It tenders the issue for the other side to join. The High Court will make a decision. From then on we enter into the agreements and this national Parliament will then make a decision. The Commonwealth must be able to negotiate from a position of strength. The Commonwealth would be able to make agreements such as those in regard to the administrative arrangements referred to in previous speeches. Mention has been made of royalties set at a rate of 60 per cent. If we try to carry on negotiations without having asserted sovereignty, we are standing the argument on its head. Anyone with any experience of negotiations or of trying to strike bargains will know that we will get nowhere that way. I am sure that is exactly what the honourable member for Berowra had in mind when he expressed cynicism or certainly lack of optimism about the results of trying to reach agreement with people when we have nothing to assert publicly and say: 'Look, we are the national Parliament; this is the Commonwealth of Australia. It is right and proper that these seas should be subject to the control of the national Parliament and :he people of Australia through their representatives here'. This should not be done through a system of government that was deemed appropriate in 1900. 
I come back to the problems referred to by the honourable member for Moreton - the new colonialism, the mineral wealth of the seas, the rising population of he world, the struggles and the conflicts that obviously we will have to face and resolve in our wisdom, or lack of it, in the years to come. Who is to talk for Australia? Will the Queensland Government talk for the whole of Australia? Will that State make decisions that will bind or influence Victorians? Will Queenslanders make decisions which will influence Tasmanians? That cannot be the way forward. Really what it boils down to is that it is not so much a matter of law, although the debate has been contributed to greatly by lawyers, as a matter of politics and political leadership. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  who would have thought that this Bill, this debate on the Broadcasting and Television Bill 1972, would have so exposed the fundamental differences between the Liberal and Country Parties which form the Government of Australia and the Australian Labor Party? It seems to have come right out of the mouths of Government supporters that they are grudgingly forced or prepared to concede this minor step forward. As they do it, under pressure, they apologise. Out of their own mouth they apologise continually to the people for what might be called the doctrine or principle of maximising profits. That is what they continually come back to. I do not think I can be called a johnny-come-lately in this problem. On 9th December last I gave notice of intention to present 2 Bills. One was a Bill for an Act to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act to prevent a licensee broadcasting or televising any advertisement promoting the sale or consumption of cigarettes and the other was a Bill for an Act to amend the Post and Telegraph Act to prevent the sending by post of any postal article which promotes the sale or consumption of cigarettes. 
Let me hasten to add that I am loath and reluctant, by nature, to ban anything. I believe in maximising opportunities but when the evidence is overwhelming, as was stated in the second reading speech of the Minister, and the relationship of cigarette smoking with pulmonary and cardiovascular disease, including lung cancer, heart disease, chronic bronchitis and emphysema, is accepted beyond doubt by major international and Australian medical organisations, including the World Health Organisation and the National Health and Medical Research Council one must face facts. This evidence has been accepted even by this Government and notwithstanding all the pressures that have been on it from a number of sources it got around not to banning these advertisements but at least to issuing a warning. The Government, at this late stage has introduced an amendment which I believe to be of advantage. The Government wishes to substitute for the words 'National Health and Medical Research Council' the words 'the Australian Government' and so indicate that the Australian Government warns that smoking is a health hazard. I take it from that that the Australian Government accepts not that someone else has an opinion that it is a health hazard but that the Australian Government itself has that opinion and is of that opinion. There is no need for me to quibble about that - it is overwhelming. The problem is, what is to be done about it? 
I shall not canvass points gone into by members from this side of the House and at least one member from the other side of the House except to say that there is hypocrisy in certain of the contributions made in this chamber tonight, particularly from the Government side, and I have already adverted to one or two of those aspects which suggest hypocrisy. Some members would have us believe that the only reason the Government does not ban advertisements is that in some way it is concerned with freedom of choice. What nonsense. So are we all concerned with freedom of choice, but freedom of choice for the consumer, freedom of choice for the man who is to buy a packet of cigarettes if he wants to, or the man who buys a motor car, a loaf of bread, a bar of chocolate, a Shirt or a suit. The way the Government has put this it is a freedom of choice not for the consumer but for the advertiser, the manufacturer of this toxic product. I should like to quote from the Minister's second reading speech where he gave the reason for not banning or prohibiting. He said: 
However this Government's  philosophy- 
I have a philosophy quite different from that of the Government -  rates very highly the freedom of individuals to decide for themselves within the broad framework of our democratic society, matters concerning their own well being. 
No-one could quibble with that; certainly I do not. The Minister continued: 
Accordingly it is not recognised as a role of this Government to impose prohibitions on people's freedom of choice except for the most compelling national  reasons 
I accept that completely. But there is a note of hypocrisy lying behind it because when one looks at the facts to which it relates it is completely inapplicable. It is mumbo jumbo; intellectual garbage intended to cloak a desire to protect manufacturers of cigarettes because the Government does not want to offend them. 
Any number of examples of where the Government has banned advertising can be given but I will content myself with mentioning 2 tonight out of consideration for the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  In this day and age where great pressures on the community are being exposed everywhere - one does not have to be a follower of Ehrlich to accept that the population explosion is causing untold misery in the world - the Government persists in banning the advertising of family planning services and persists in banning the advertising of contraceptives or contraceptive devices, the pill and all the rest of them. Anyone who has had the experience of sitting in this Parliament over the last 12 months or so knows that petitions are presented almost every day demanding that these bans on the advertising of these products and on family planning services be taken off the statute book. The Government proudly says: 'We do not believe in banning anything*. What rubbish! It bans things all the time if they do not suit the Government's convenience. The nearest example I can lay my hands on is section 46 (5.) of the Pharmacy Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. If the Government wants to be honest and consistent it should remove the bans on things like that which really count. 
The final point I want to make is that the Government even bans the advertising of ideas. The most recent example of this is the well known and much publicised 'Little Red Schoolbook'. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  to his credit allowed it into the country. But what happened after that?  Senator Cotton  in the Senate, embarrassed I suppose by a lack of enthusiasm and by critics of the Government and yielding to the forces which lie behind this Government, announced: 
However, the Government is concerned with some aspects of the book and is disturbed that it may be distributed and used in schools.  lt is intended to be used in schools. It is aimed at the school market. It is aimed at secondary school children. The Government allows it into the country and it is on sale here. But this hypocritical Government comes out and says that it is disturbed that it may be distributed and used in schools. How hypocritical can it get?  Senator Cotton  continued: 
The Commonwealth will therefore take appropriate action to exercise its influence and authority to prevent the book's distribution and use in schools under its control. It hopes that State governments will do likewise. 
In other words it brings the enormous authority of this now discredited Government to bear wherever it can lay its hands. It bans the advertising of ideas, probably the most exciting and stimulating thing a community can have; and in the area 6f family planning it also bans the propagation of ideas. Yet it comes along here in relation to a poison and says: 'We will not ban the advertising of that poison'. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What Commonwealth laws exist to combat oil pollution around the Australian coastline. 
How many complaints alleging the occurrence of oil pollution which have been investigated since 1965 have not resulted in criminal proceedings being taken because of difficulties of legal proof. 
Do the difficulties of legal proof arise out of having to prove an offence beyond reasonable doubt by having either admissions or witnesses who actually saw the spillage. 
In cases where offenders are almost certain to be corporations which own and operate ships, will the Government consider changing the burden of proof from the criminal to the civil standard or by making averments prima facie evidence of the allegations contained in those averments. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is growing speculation that applications will be called this year for a licence for a second commercial broadcasting station for Canberra. 
Has his attention been drawn to a newspaper report which states that  Sir Frank  Packer already has the licence wrapped up. 
Does the Government agree with the view of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board that companies controlling radio stations should be as widely representative of the area they serve as possible. 
When will applications be called for a second station and what is the reason for the delay. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What percentage of Commonwealth public servants transferred to Canberra in each of the last 10 years was allotted Government accommodation immediately upon arrival. 
What percentage of persons who arrived in Canberra in each of the last 10 years, in circumstances where they would be entitled to a housing allowance of the Regulation 97 type, received this type of allowance instead of being allotted Government accommodation immediately. 
What was the average period that the persons referred to in part (2) received the Regulation 97 type allowance before being allotted Government accommodation. 
What was the longest period for which a person had received a Regulation 97 type allowance in Canberra. 
What sum has been paid by way of Regulation 97 type allowance in each of the last 10 years. 
Were payments made to the public servant concerned or to a landlord or to someone on his behalf; if the payments were made to someone on his behalf, to whom were the payments made. 
How many persons received the benefit of a Regulation 97 type allowance in each of the last 10 years. 
In determining the amount of a Regulation 97 type allowance in Canberra, (a) what procedures are followed to ensure that an equitable sum is paid and (b) what safeguards exist to ensure that the allowance is not excessive. 
Was it ever a requirement that premises in respect of which a Regulation 97 type allowance was sought should be fair rented under the provisions of the Landlord and Tenant Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory before the allowance was given; if so, for how long did this requirement exist. 
Has the requirement now been discontinued; If so, when and why. 
If the requirement has been discontinued, will be ensure that it is re-introduced. 
Are there any records or estimates available to indicate whether Regulation 97 type allowances increased substantially or at all following the discontinuance of the requirement for premises to be fair rented; If so, what do they reveal. 
Can lie say whether there is any relationship between the significant drop in overall applications to have fair rents determined following the years 1965 and 1966 as indicated in his answer to question No. 4317 (Hansard, 2nd November 1971, pages 2881-7) and the decision not to require premises to be fair rented before a Regulation 97 allowance is granted. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment,  Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Canhe say whether the United States of America has legislation requiring high pollution industries like the steel industry to provide funds to control and limit the pollution caused by that industry. 
Can he also say whether the proposal to establish a steel mill at Jervis Bay is motivated in part by a desire by American steel interests to avoid having to provide funds for controlling pollution in the United States and to take advantage of the lack of any such requirement in Australia. 
If so, is this a case of the United States exporting its pollution problem to Australia. 
Is the proposal to establish a steel mill at Jervis Bay restricted to making billets which would be sent to the United States and not final rolled merchant and structural sections of steel so that the Australian made billets would be converted into rolled sections in the United States. 
Is it a fact that most air pollution comes from the steel production process up to the billet stage and that relatively little pollution comes from the rolling operations stage. 
If  Australia does not require its steel mills to be as clean as steel mills in the United States, can he say whether it is cheaper for the United States manufacturers to pollute Australian air than to pollute air in the United States. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation taken any steps to investigate the activities and operations of the League of Rights. 
If so, have the investigations revealed anything that would be detrimental to the security of Australia. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 4711, dealing with Public Service regulation 97, which I placed on the Notice Paper on 11th November 1971. 
Towards the end of the speech made by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  we heard the true opposition or argument from the Government as to why the Aboriginal embassy was there. It had nothing to do with tents or with people camping on Commonwealth Crown Land, The real opposition from the Government, the real thing that offended it, the real thing it could not stomach, was the reminder out there by those 2 flags, the sign 'Aboriginal Embassy' in a symbolic form, and the tents, that these people claim land rights - something that was taken from them many years ago. That is a political thing, and towards the end of his speech the Minister reiterated it and came back to it; it was the point on which he wanted to finish. He said that the Aborigines were there for political reasons; that they were there not just to live in a tent but to make a political point; and that they were exercising a right to assemble. This statement came right out of the Minister's mouth. There are a number of reasons why this House should not have confidence in the Minister for the Interior. It is quite a pity that there are almost no Liberals present in the chamber. 
Yes, have a look at those 2 or 3 - with one notable exception. At the moment the Government benches consist almost entirely of members of the Australian Country Party. Where are the Liberals who espouse Liberal principles? Unfortunately 15 minutes is not a long enough time in which to cover all the points. The Minister said that the Aboriginal embassy came there on Australia Day. Rather he omitted to say that, but it was Australia Day. The Aborigines made it clear that they hoped to stay there until Parliament began sitting in order to make their point - the Minister says it was a political point - concerning a claim for land rights. The Government kept saying: 'We will not tolerate their presence'. Naturally, like any human being, the Aborigines said: We will not be told not to do something which we want to do, which is completely legal and which we are allowed to do'. They said that they would stay on until President Suharto from Indonesia came. Again, they were on the verge of going and again the Government came along and said: 'You will go'. It was at that time that the Press began to play it up. 
Because the Minister for the Interior has made so much of the lack of opposition, as he calls it, from the Labor Party on the 11th May, let me give some examples of the opposition that was made. In March I sent a telegram to the Minister saying that I personally opposed any move to move the Aboriginal embassy and that if the Minister was going across to the embassy I would like to go with him. But I received no answer to or no acknowledgment of the telegram I sent on 6th March this year. Towards the end of March the Labor Party members on the Opposition benches produced to this Parliament 10 or 12 petitions from my constituents - people who live in the Australian Capital Territory - protesting at the reported moves that the Government was making to move the embassy. 
Indeed, I remind the House that on one occasion I took the unusual step of moving that the petition be printed. The motion was debated in this House in one sense - that I gave the reasons why the petition should be printed. It contained the expression of view of the people in Canberra, that the Government was up to something horrible and that it should be criticised for being up to it. I said that the petition should be given the widest possible distribution, that it should get into the books and that the world should know what this Government was up to. No-one on the Government benches spoke against the motion and it was carried unanimously. 
Opposition to what the Government was up to continued. The Minister will recall that on 11th May 1972, when he said that there was no opposition to the Government's move - 1 know he heard it because I saw his face when he read the statement out - I shouted: 'Shame! You frightened little men'. I repeat what I said: 'Shame! You frightened little men'. It was widely reported in the Canberra newspapers on the following day. If that is not opposition to the Minister's point, I do not know what it is. 
The Minister said m his statement that it was the Government's intention to bring in an ordinance which would fill a need in relation to the law in regard to trespass on Commonwealth land in Canberra. I do not really see any reference to Aborigines in that statement. He said finally that adequate public notice would be given of the coming into effect of the ordinance. I ' repeat, he said that adequate public notice would be given of the coming into effect of the Ordinance. What would any Opposition member want to do when told that an ordinance dealing with trespass on land could come in? The statement did not use the words 'Aborigine', 'tent' or any relevant words. ...'. 
I remind the Minister, when it comes to a question of his credibility, that on television he said that when the ordinance came in the Aborigines would be given a couple of weeks - a reasonable time--within which to get off the land. I heard him say it. We moved towards the end of the parliamentary session and the Minister- I ' suppose it could be argued that he -reads ' the Canberra newspapers as he is responsible for the administration of Canberra- ' will remember a Press statement I released which was given some publicity at 'the time. It said that this Government would not introduce any ordinance dealing'' with the removal of the embassy while Parliament remained in session; that it' would not be game to; that it would wait until the parliamentarians went back to Perth, 
Brisbane, Townsville and Darwin - not that Darwin matters much in this context. The statement said that when they went back to the various parts of Australia the Government would sneak this ordinance in like a thief in the night. Is that not exactly what the Government did? 
Let me take the Ministery up to 20th July 1972. Rumours ran around this city that the 'Gazette' coming out on Thursday, 20th July, would contain a gazettal about the ordinance. On Thursday morning, 20th July, 1 had the officers in the legislative research section of this Parliament - very capable people - trying to tell me for an hour whether that ordinance had been gazetted. They could not find out. Do honourable members know how I found out? I was in my city office at the time and I wanted to come across to Parliament House. I got the information from an inspector of the ACT police force. In the end he said: 'If you want to know what is going on, look out your window*. He thought that I was in my office in Parliament House. When I arrived at the Aboriginal embassy the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  was there. Do honourable members know what I found? The police had dismantled the tents and there were- 
That was never lost. You need not be taken away by that. Let me tell honourable members what I saw, because the Minister for the Interior had not been near the place. He talks about radical left wing elements. I saw a group of Aborigines and white people linked arm in arm around the remaining tent which carried the flag and the sign 'Aboriginal Embassy'. I recognised some of the people. I recognised the Reverend Jim Udy, a very respectable clergyman in Canberra, linked arm in arm with the Aborigines. I recognised the Reverend George Garnsey, another very respected and responsible clergyman from Canberra, linked arm in arm with the Aborigines. I recognised Bruce Kent, another responsible, recognised and well known man in Canberra, linked arm in arm with the Aborigines. I saw no-one who could be called irresponsible or within any mythical conspiratorial nonsense that the Minister goes on with. At that stage the police, under the action and directions of the Minister, were proceeding to whale in. They were sooled on by the Minister, if you like, although he was not game to be there, and were pulling them away. I saw violence. 
This is why this House should have no confidence in the Minister. Until that time that demonstration had been the most successful peaceful symbol of the Aboriginal claim for land rights that one could possibly imagine. The Embassy had been there for 6 months and had attracted tourists. The children of tourists had gone to the Embassy and collected signatures and Aboriginal literature. The Embassy had been a peaceful symbol of the Aboriginals' claim for land rights. What did the Minister and the Government he represents do? He converted that peaceful symbol into a symbol of violence. The Minister has come along here and hypocritically made reference to Sharpeville. He talked about events 4 or 5 days later when there was an explosive situation. The peaceful symbol had been destroyed. I have enormous respect for the Australian Capital Territory police, although no-one has fought the police more than I have in the courts in previous days. But the police had been sooled on to these people by this Minister. 
Put any other different word to it. There were broken limbs and skin was torn. There was violence. What else does one call it? I have spoken to some of the officers concerned. The police were deliberately disarmed. I will tell honourable members this: On the second time round when the 2,000 people assembled, the Aborigines searched each other - this is a measure of their responsibility - to ensure that there would be no arms of any sort on any of them if anything got out of control. There is a measure of responsibility for you. On that occasion we saw violence in this town that was completely unnecessary - violence that had been created and provoked by this Minister. 
May I give another example? That afternoon I received a message that some of the Aborigines and some of the gentlemen to whom I have already referred had gone to the police station to lend moral support to the people who had been arrested as  a  result of the fracas and who were being released on bail. I went across to the police station. There I saw the real measure of what this Minister has brought about, this transformation of a peaceful symbol into a violent symbol. I saw outside of the door of the police station 20 or 30 constables - not the 300 who had been there before. They were not standing to attention but were standing at ease. Confronting them was a very angry group of people made up of demonstrators as well as the wives and supporters of the demonstrators. There was one very young Aboriginal lady who was hysterical. She claimed that her husband had had his head bashed in, or something like that, by a policeman. These policemen are my constituents as much as are the people who go there to demonstrate. The Minister has brought about this antagonism between them. This is why I get angry. The demonstrators quite naturally were taking out their anger on the police. The people who were speaking to the demonstrators had their backs to the line of police. I refused to do that because I take the view that in this situation the police should know what you have done to them. They should know the dirty, filthy job that the Minister has given them to do. 
I am not cutting it out. I am trying to tell you what the situation was. The Government nearly had a Sharpeville incident. If the moderate speakers had not poured some oil on these waters and put that fire out there would have been trouble that afternoon and this Minister could have been deliberately and directly held responsible. 
Let me take the story one step further, and I appreciate that my time is limited. Let me move to what happened during the following week. The responsible editor of one of Canberra's newspapers came to me towards the end of the week - about Thursday. He was not looking for a story. He came because of the responsible reports he had heard that an explosive situation was going to arise in Canberra and that the Government was doing nothing about it - it was just washing its hands like Pontius Pilate. 
The Minister will remember these events. I sent him a telegram because all of the reports said that he and his colleague - I suppose that one can call the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  a colleague - were in Darwin or somewhere doing something else probably quite irrelevant, given the situation that had arisen in Canberra. The reports had it that the Minister was trying to bribe off the demonstrators with the offer of Beauchamp House. After all, we remember that the thread running through the Minister's speeches has been that 'perhaps they do not want land rights; perhaps they want a club or something like that in Canberra'; or 'Perhaps if I offer them something they will go away and they will not trouble me with their unpleasant, embarrassing political demands'. So there was talk about Beauchamp House. I had a telegram from the Assistant Secretary,  Mr Ballard,  on the point. Nothing was done. As the .Minister points out, there was widespread support all over this country for the Aboriginals because of the insult that this Government had laid at the door of the Aboriginal cause. Truckloads of people did come in. There was an explosive situation. 
On the Sunday when the 300-odd police were outside Parliament House every responsible and respected citizen : of Canberra, also was there.  Mr Jim  Pead of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council was there doing his best to try to talk to the responsible officers in the Department and the police. There was Professor Hal Wootten down from Sydney who was doing his best. I was there, as well as many of the members of the Advisory Council, doing our best. Where was this Minister? He was nowhere to be seen. We had this explosive situation. 
That could be so. There was anger - terrible anger. But to their credit, the police kept their cool. When the demonstrators arrived marching, there was then a strong element of what I suppose loosely could be called black power people. The clenched fist salute was given and chants for land rights could be heard. This type of activity was not present before this Minister put the police in to move the Embassy away in the way he did. A peaceful demonstration had been converted to a symbol of violence which will now be associated forever with this Government and with the Aborigine's cause. The demonstrators sat down and they were addressed by their own people. 
I am indebted to the House,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The people sat down. Perhaps there were 2,000 of them. Having marched all the way from the Australian National University they heard speeches. Not one word of violence was uttered. The Minister talks about trouble makers and the radicals. I was there and I did not hear or see any of them. The Minister was not there. I say to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  that they played a guitar and sang songs. They talked about the cause of Aborigines and the cause of land rights. I spoke to the Commissioner of Police who was doing his best because he did not quite know what had happened. I spoke to Hal Wootten, who said - and I am sure that he will not mind me saying so in this context - that all his efforts had left him with a feeling of frustration. He said that he could get no sense out of the Government It was as though they had turned their backs, closed their eyes and said: 'We do not know what is going to happen; we have no way of controlling it; we will just walk away from the thing*. Anyone who was there on that day will confirm what I am saying. 
As  the  Minister has said, word was conveyed  to  Mr Wilson,  the Commissioner of Police, that the demonstrators would march back  to the  Australian National University. They did. He was told that a token force would remain within the tent but that there would  be  no trouble. He was told that the police could remove the tent. The police did. They found 5 or 6 men in the tent with their fingers raised in the Churchill V for Victory sign. Here was your violence. When  the  tent was taken away from around them they held up a symbolic piece of canvas, walked to where the police line was, threw it down and walked away. If that is not self-discipline, I do not know what is. What hypocrisy it was for 'the Minister to suggest in the letter which he wrote to me on 4th August that all of the credit for the absence of violence goes to the Australian Capital Territory police. Full marks to the Australian Capital Territory police. But I say full marks also to those demonstrators and no marks at all for the Minister or for this Government whom he represents. There are many reasons why this House should have no confidence in the Minister. The first is his dishonesty about the strong suggestion in the television programme when he said that he knew that the Ordinance was to be gazetted at a time when the Parliament would not be sitting. I will read the Minister's words to him if he will just listen and not wander away. He will remember that shortly after the violent removal of the tent on 20th July he was interviewed on television and it was put to him: 'Would you rather that this would have happened when the Parliament was sitting?' The Minister had been referring to how he had announced the intention to Parliament on 11th May. I already have put to the House what he said on that day - that adequate public notice would be given. Ten minutes public notice was given. When the Minister was talking to this interviewer about how on 11th May he had made an announcement to the Parliament the questioner asked: 'Would you rather that this would have happened when the Parliament was sitting?' The Minister's answer was: Well, I knew that this was not going to happen and this is why I felt obliged to inform the Parliament of the Government's decision on 11th May'. 
So on 11th May he knew he was going to wait until after the politicians had dispersed before slipping this Ordinance through in the way in which he did. One might ask why he waited. I suggest that it was because he could not face up to it at that stage and he misled the Parliament when he said that adequate notice would be given. 
I have told the House that I could not find out whether the Ordinance had been gazetted on that Thursday morning. The honourable member for Wills could not find out; I could not find out. I got the information from an inspector of police who was not unsympathetic to the cause of the demonstrators. In his interview the Minister said: 'it is interesting to note not one member of the Labor Party, the Opposition, at that time, from either the House of Representatives or the Senate objected to the Government's intention'. What rubbish! I have already referred to the long history of opposition, the petitions that have been presented to the Parliament, the telegrams sent to the Minister, the Press statements dealing with the subject and finally, to my shouting of: 'Shame! You frightened little men'. That is exactly what honourable members opposite are. I hurled those words across the chamber at the Minister. He heard them because he looked at me when he heard them. 
There should be no confidence in the Minister because of the dishonesty, the lack of tolerance and the hypocrisy underlying the whole situation and, finally, because of sheer incompetence. On this point I should like to conclude by reading what  Mr Justice  Fox said in dealing with the challenge made to the legality of this Ordinance. I have a copy of the transcript of the judgment. The learned judge - one would think quite an objective, independent person - at page 24 of the transcript, referring to this way of making laws, particularly laws which affect the lives of people, but laws generally in Canberra, said: 
 You would not take long to convince me that section 12- 
That is the section of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act under which this type of legislation is enacted - is an unsatisfactory scheme of legislation. There are plenty of other examples of the same kind of comment from the judge in his judgment. At page 96 of the transcript he said: lt seems to me on the material presently before me that the position was that the Embassy and those constituting the Embassy could lawfully have been required to leave land under the principles of the general law and without the aid of the ordinance. As I see the matter if it in fact had been necessary the responsible authorities could have applied to this court for appropriate orders to achieve their desired results. 
The Minister has spoken about the legal advice he was given. But I remind the Minister that the learned judge said: 
As I understand him, counsel who appears for both the Minister and the Commissioner of Police does not dispute that some such course was available under the general law. 
In saying that the judge was referring to the Minister's own counsel who appeared in the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory and who said that the embassy could have been removed under the existing law without this Ordinance. I ask the Minister: 'Where is your legal advice now?' Is that not incompetence? For these reasons I support the motion. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it  a  fact that there is no effective legislation in the Australian Capital Territory to control the noise of motor cycles and other motor vehicles. 
How many complaints have been received by the Australian Capital Territory Police concerning excessive noise caused by motor vehicles in each of the last 5 years. 
Were these complaints investigated. 
Did any of these investigations result in matters being taken, by way of prosecution, before the Court of Petty Sessions. 
If so, how many (a) were so taken and (b) resulted in convictions being recorded. 
Is legislation being prepared to control the nuisance created by excessive motor vehicle noise. 
If so, (a) what stage has the drafting of the legislation reached and (b) when is it anticipated that the legislation will be placed before die Parliament. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say how many premises exist in the Australian Capital Territory that would satisfy the definition of: 
shops and 
factories as defined in the Factories and Shops Act 1912, as amended, of New South Wales. 
Can he also say how many persons are estimated to be employed in these: 
shops and 
factories. 
If these statistics are not immediately available, will he take steps to have a survey undertaken so that the figures can be supplied. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Secretary of the Board of Fire Commissioners in New South Wales gave an assurance on 3rd November 1970 that there would be a minimum strength per shift for fire stations in Canberra of: 
a station officer and 7 firemen at Forrest, 
a  station officer and 4 firemen at Ainslie; and 
a  station officer and 3 firemen at Phillip, and that these minima would be maintained at all times. 
If so, has Inspector Munday, the Chief Officer for the Australian Capital Territory, now been instructed that he should permit his staff to fall to 6 firemen at Forrest before another man is provided by being recalled to duty. 
Does the instruction also state that overtime should be worked to make up the work load. 
Is it  a  fact that on the weekends of 19th and 20th February 1972 and 26th and 27th February 1972 the number of firemen on duty per shift at Forrest fell below 7. 
If so, can he say why the assurance given by the Secretary of the Board of Fire Commissioners has not been kept. 
Is it  a  fact that a meeting of firemen in the Australian Capital Territory, which was held on 28th February 1972, resolved that, if any station fell below the minimum described, they would not respond to calls until the assurance of the Board was complied with. 
In view of the danger to life and property in Canberra, will he act immediately to ensure that the Board complies with its .assurance and that the minima will obtain at the 3 stations at all times as stated by the Board. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
When was (a) block 12 section 33 Cook, (b) block 13 section 33 Cook, (c) block 25 section 8 Duffy, (d) block 30 section 31 Duffy and (e) block 23 section 32 Farrer purchased. 
By whom was each block purchased, when did building on each block commence and when were the buildings on each block completed. 
If building did not commence within 6 months of purchase of each block and was not completed within 12 months of purchase, what reasons were given for this happening in each case. 
Has hig Department terminated leases on any block or blocks of land purchased by a building company during the last 5 years; if so, what was the (a) number of the block, (b) date of purchase, (c) name of the purchaser, (d) reason for the termination of the lease and (e) date of termination in each case. 
How many blocks were purchased at each group or unrestricted auction in the last 5 years by (a) Lend Lease Homes Pty Ltd, (b) A. V. Jennings Industries (Aust.) Ltd, (c) L. J. Hooker Ply Ltd, (d) Stocks and Holdings (Canberra) Pty Ltd, (e) Orlit Pry Ltd, (f) Century Homes (Canberra) Pty Ltd, (g) Valley Homes, (h) Perfection Home Sales and (i) Craftsman Homes. 
What was the percentage of purchases by each company to the total number of blocks purchased at such auctions during that period. 
Did each of these companies commence building on each of the blocks purchased by them within 6 months of that purchase; if not, what reasons were given for them not doing so. 
What was the number of each block of land and the name of the person who purchased the block on which building was not (a) commenced within 6 months of purchase and (b) completed within 12 months of purchase during each of the last 5 years. 
What was the reason given for the delay in each case. 
Were any of the leases to these blocks terminated; if not, why not. 
Are finance companies permitted to bid at group or unrestricted auctions. 
If so, why are finance companies by themselves or by their nominees permitted to purchase land at these auctions. 
What steps are taken to ascertain whether a purchaser is a finance company or a nominee of a finance company. 
Do any finance companies hold building permits in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Can he say whether finance companies purchase land at restricted auctions on behalf  ot  builders, and then often offer that land to other builders after the initial purchase. 
If there is sue* a practice, does the Government agree that it is detrimental to the public interest. 
What steps are being taken to ensure that any such practice does not continue. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that 3 Japanese companies, Marubeni Corporation, Okura Shoii and Nipon Kohan and Kaisha (Japan Steel and Tube Corporation) have been negotiating with an Australian company, Magellan Petroleum Australia Ltd, which owns natural gas concession rights in Palm Valley, south-west of Alice Springs, to develop the natural gas resources of the Northern Territory and export natural gas to Japan. 
Is it also a fact that the Japanese firms have announced that they will invest some $ 1,000m in this project 
Have the announced preliminary, surveys shown deposits of between 5 and 10 million cubic feet of natural gas to exist in the area. 
Does the project call for the construction of a 621 mile pipeline to carry the gas to the loading port of Carpentaria. 
Does the project also provide for the Japanese Companies to receive big orders for steel pipes, gas liquefying plants, liquefied natural gas (LNG) carriers and other relevant equipment. 
Can he supply details of the likely value to the Japanese companies of the orders for this equipment. 
Is it a fact that the profits and the proceeds of the project will be remitted to Japan and lost to Australia. 
What steps has the Government taken to invite Australian firms to participate in the development of these Australian assets by assisting them with finance or guarantees from either the Government or the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
Will the Japanese firms who will be both suppliers and buyers be able to control the price of the gas at will; if so, to what extent. 
Can he state the extent to which the Japanese firms will have control over the gas fields and the extent to which those firms will be able to influence availability of the supply of liquefied natural gas to Australia and Australian export territories where that gas is now being used as a substitute for oil and petrol because of its advantages in limiting air pollution. 
Can he state why, when Australian steel mills are dismissing men for want of work, a foreign project which will import 621 miles of steel pipe from Japan is allowed to proceed. 
Can he say (a) whether the liquefying plants will be built in Australia or imported from Japan, (b) who will build the pipeline, (c) whether the liquefied gas will be carried away from Australia in Australian ships earning income for Australian companies or in foreign ships, (d) whether the project will employ Australians and be managed by Australians and (e) how many Australians are likely to be employed. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Which international or multi-national cor porations are known to engage in the practice of selling and exporting Australian minerals and metals, which they either own' or control in Australia, and of purchasing these same minerals and metals in other countries in their capacity there as purchasers. 
What minerals and metals are the subject of this practice. 
What income is known to have been received in Australia from the sale of these minerals and metals during each of the last five years. 
What controls does the Government possess oyer (a) this practice and (b) these corporations. 
What advantages would exist for Australia in having a Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) such as exists in Japan. 
Are there any likely conflicts between Australian national interests and the interests of such international or multi-national corporations when these corporations engage in this practice. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
What is the ratio between the number of pre-school or child minding centres in Canberra and the population of Canberra. 
Who determines the ratio and how is it determined. 
How many (a) Government operated and (b) privately operated child-minding and preschool centres are there in Canberra. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that until recently members of the Canberra Fire Brigade prepared reports on the standard of fire safety and fire prevention and fire precaution appliances in all new buildings in Canberra. 
Was a decision taken recently whereby Deprtment of the Interior Officers will henceforth make decisions as to whether these standards are met and that they will only consult with Fire Brigade Officers in respect of fire appliances. 
If so, 
how many officers of the Department of the Interior have had any experience or training in fire-fighting, fire precautions or fire prevention; 
is this experience or training considered adequate; and 
why was the change in procedures adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What are the reasons for the Government's failure to appoint a Director of the National Institute of Criminology. 
Is one of the reasons the fact that the salary being offered is too low. 
What is the salary being offered. 
What salaries are paid to comparable officers of comparable institutes in (a) the United Kingdom, (b) the United States of America and (c) Canada. 
Has the position been advertised overseas; if so, with what result 
Does the Attorney-General agree that the position of Director is of sufficient importance to be only given to an applicant possessing high qualifications in the study of criminology and associated sciences, with publications and other evidence of academic achievement to support his appointment. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports in The Canberra Times' of 23rd and 24th May 1972 suggesting that his Department is preparing an ordinance that will enact additional and stronger censorship laws for the Australian Capital Territory. 
Is the censorship law, as at present applied by the Minister for Customs and Excise and the ordinary courts of Justice in Canberra, considered inadequate. 
If so, in what way is the law considered inadequate and can he give any examples. 
Does his Department consider that the Courts can no longer be relied on and is that the reason a stronger censorship law is required. 
Has he received any representations to enact new legislation; if so, will he name the persons and bodies who made these representations and give the dates when they were made. 
Will he give the names of at least 3 books or publications at present circulating in Canberra that he considers the people of Canberra should not be allowed to read. 
Is the ordinance to be enacted so that it will take effect during the Parliamentary adjournment and at a time when it cannot be debated in the Parliament. 
At the outset of my contribution to the debate on the Budget I want to say something about 2 matters which have been brought to my notice in the last few days. A seminar - I think I can call it that - was held in Sydney yesterday by what could be Australia's top management consultants, namely, W. D. Scott and Company Pty Ltd. They invited a large number of Australia's top business executives to discuss the Budget that was brought down in this Parliament on 15th August. I was not at the seminar, but every piece of information that has come to my attention on it has been to this effect: An unusually large number of people attended the seminar. Something like 500 of the top business executives in Australia attended it, which is something that has never happened before. The prevailing mood was one of depression, confusion and uncertainty. 
It was a seminar called by W. D. Scott and Company Pty Ltd, which is one of the leading management consultants in Australia, to discuss the Budget. I will come back to it in a moment. On 19th August - last Saturday morning  -  I was, like other members of the Parliament I imagine, in my office in my constituency, which happens to be Canberra, when a young lady came in to see me with a housing problem.  Her  problem was that the house that she and her husband were renting was about to be taken back by the landlord, who was returning from overseas, and she wondered whether I could help her to obtain alternative accommodation. The facts that came out were interesting. She was, to say the least, a very depressed person. But she is not alone in this so-called affluent city of Canberra. Twenty-three years of age, she was obviously not well. Considerable nervous strain could be seen on her face. She had 2 children clambering all over her. One was  2i  years of age and the other was li years of age. 

 Her husband is a truck driver in Canberra. He is 23 years of age.  His  take home pay is $75 a week, which would put him in the 60-odd per cent of people who receive less than the national average income, which is something like $92 or $93 a week. The rent they are paying for the house that she wants to cling to or that she wants to have replaced for another house is $35 a week, which represents nearly one-half of her husband's take home pay. That is not an unusual situation in this city. I venture to suggest that it would not be an unusual situation in many of the other capital cities in Australia. It would be pretty obvious on the face of it or on any other way in which one looked at it that this couple would not be able to make ends meet on the husband's salary. So the wife had to go out to work. They are both 23 years of age. She has a job as a ledger card keeper with one of the finance companies in Canberra. I will not name it for obvious reasons. She has managed to bring in $52 a week by working at that job. But who has had to look after the children while she has been working? They are being looked after by one of the child minding centres in Canberra - the Christopher Robin Centre. There is no harm in naming it That centre looked after her children for $25 a week. That amount out of this young couple's income went on child minding expenses. 
The public transport system in Canberra is poor. That is a matter which one should have thought would have been cared for in the Budget. Because of the poor public transport system the people of Canberra have to have cars. The cars of people in these circumstances have to be bought on hire purchase. This couple has to pay out $32 a month on hire purchase terms alone. Forget the third party insurance expenses, forget the comprehensive insurance expenses, forget the depreciation on the car, forget the fact that the car has to be replaced, forget the oil, petrol, service and other charges that go with the ownership of a car - that is the amount that this couple has to pay out a month on hire purchase terms. This young lady wanted the assistance of her local member in getting a house for $30 to $35 a week. There was no way in the world of getting her a Government house. There was no way in the world of getting her a house on something like one-fifth of the take home pay of her husband, which used to be the ideal in the immediate post-war years when Labor governments were in power in at least New South Wales and the Commonwealth sphere. 
Let me finish and I will tell the honourable member. One way would be to get rid of the present Government. Those are 2 stories on the opposite side of the coin. As I have said, one concerned a young lady under considerable nervous strain who did not know the answer to her problems. I have not much time in this debate but I can tell the House that the Housing Commission in this city cannot help and will not help. To come back to the businessmen, let me tell you what is shown by the survey of how top executives see Australia's prospects. I hold up this booklet which must be available to any honourable member in this House. This report is not the one which led to the meeting held yesterday. It preceded that report and it came out in July 1972. The synopsis reads: 
The nation's top businessmen are worried about Australia and the way it is developing. 
That is after 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government. The synopsis continues: This emerges from a W. D. Scott and Co. survey of over 370 chief executives, conducted during July. 
In particular, these chief executives are concerned about Australia's performance on inflation, industrial relations, productivity and age pensions. A considerable number of them, too, see major problems in the present Government. 
This is a Liberal-Country Party Government. It is no secret that it is a government of big business. It is a government pledged to the capitalist - sometimes called free enterprise - way. The two are not the same. This Government does not believe in free enterprise; it believes in capitalism which is something quite different. But here are the people it represents, the top businessmen of Australia, saying that it has done a bad lousy job. This survey goes on to say: 
In the short term- 
I am reading from the synopsis. I am putting some evidence before you, even for your closed mind. It reads: 
In the short term Australia's economic performance is expected to improve somewhat. But only a minority of chief executives intend to take expansionary action, in their own companies, over the next six months. Most are adopting a 'wait and see' attitude which will make it difficult for the economy to move ahead at anything approaching full-speed. 
This was in July 1972, and the meeting took place yesterday. There is to be another meeting in Melbourne tomorrow and the same number of people are expected to attend and the same depression is expected to prevail. 
Just let me finish. I will give the honourable member the facts and then see if he can make up his mind. Here is an interesting thought for members of the Liberal Government. The synopsis, which is the finding of the survey of top business executives, reads: 
The chief executives indicate overwhelmingly that they would like to see the development of specific growth objectives for Australia in the next 5 to 10 years. 
That is something which this Government, representing people such as these, has consistently failed to do because it means something called indicative planning. Let us look at some of the things which exist in thb country at the moment. Let us have a look at inflation. This Budget budgets on a deficit basis - the classical type of budget in a situation of this sort to encourage inflation. This Budget assumes inflation. 
Never mind. This Budget assumes inflation and the Government will know that the only way it has managed to get its surplus in previous years has been to leave the tax scales as they have been, let inflation run away, let people who were once thought to be on low incomes - marginal incomes - nominally be moved into high income groups and be called upon to pay high rates of income tax. That is what has happened over the years and that is why this Government has had a surplus. The figures speak for themselves. If this Government had not reduced income tax by 10 per cent about an additional $871m would have been received in revenue this year than was received last year - that is, if nothing had been done about the rate at which income tax is levied. That is built into the system, so what has this Government done? It has given a 10 per cent rebate. That is very nice. It now means that the Government will receive through its generosity about $400m more than it received last year. So much for its generosity. 
But let us think about the inflationary aspect. People talk about it. What does inflation mean? What is wrong with inflation? I will tell the House what is wrong with it and why budgetary measures should be taken to stop it. It favours the person who can turn his money over. It prejudices the person on a fixed income. It prejudices the person whom I described who saw me one Saturday morning, that young lady of 23 years and her truck driver husband who are battling on $75 a week. They are the ones who suffer when inflation gets away. Inflation does not prejudice the person who can turn bis money over, who can increase the rent on his investments or who can sell one portfolio and not another. He can do very well out of inflationary trends. Because inflation prejudices people on fixed incomes it is a ready built-in measure for industrial dispute, because as prices go up wages have to follow them, and when wages do not follow them sufficiently well - I am not over-simplifying it. 
It is not nonsense. It is as plain as the look on your face. When prices go up - that is inflation - and wages try to . chase them but . they do not adequately chase them the result is industrial unrest. Honourable members on the other side of the House are the ones who complain about it but they, have really encouraged this situation to continue. They prompted it and they have encouraged it to continue. Let us look at unemployment. Before I do so, does anyone want to argue that inflation is a good thing? I have not heard even the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  say that. Where is the step in this Budget that is intended to slow down inflation, to curb it or to stop it in any way at all? This Budget assumes that inflation will continue because it is a deficit Budget which encourages it. It is a lousy way to allocate resources because it favours the rich and prejudices the poor. So much for inflation. Let us have a look at unemployment. A year ago. this Government introduced a Budget which was the complete opposite of this one. This Budget is a reversal of everything which the previous one stood for. Therein lies something that concerns the businessmen for whom I am trying to talk in this speech. 
I will come to that in a moment. This Government's 1971 Budget produced 2 per cent unemployment, the highest in this country for many years. This is producing a great deal of hardship, and heaven knows the hidden unemployment which is not revealed in the figures. Heaven knows how many school children are staying at school because there are no jobs to which they can go. Heaven knows how many married women want to take work but cannot find it. Heaven knows how much hidden unemployment exists in this country at the present time. The figures will show up early next year. What does this Government do about unemployment? It does not, say, embark upon a course of public works. It does not put money into the pockets of the people who can spend it. It puts money into the pockets of the people who will not spend. Let us look at the tax concessions. Take a person on a salary approximately equal to that of a member of Parliament, say $9,500 or $10,000 a year. This Government gives him about $7 a week as a result of the tax concessions which it has now introduced. I think it stands to reason - it is almost commonsense - that the majority of family men on $10,000 a year are not going to rush out and spend it. They have what the economists call a low marginal propensity to spend; they have a high marginal propensity to save. They are not on the bread line. 
No, I am talking about a family man on $10,000 a year. I repeat that he has a low marginal propensity to spend and a high marginal propensity to save. What does this Government do for the man in receipt of the national average income of $90-odd a week, the man with 2 jobs who works a mass of overtime? It gives him a little less than $3. He might go out and spend it but the Government does not give him enough to make any significant difference. What about a man on, say, $67 a week, who really would go out and spend everything he could lay his bands on because he is suffering economic hardship. I refer to the truck driver whom 1 mentioned. What does this Government give him? It gives him about SI. 50. The Government says it will pour money into the economy, but it is not doing so. It is pouring money out to those people who will not spend it because - and there is a political message here, of course, that has been touched on by a number of other speakers - this is not an economic measure. This Budget has very little to do with economics; it has a lot to do with politics. The target of this political Budget is the Liberal voter who traditionally comes from the group receiving about $10,000 or more a year - that being a figure, incidentally, which I plucked out of the air. These people have been deserting the Liberal cause in such numbers that this Budget is a vain gesture or hope that in some way the Government will buy them back and prevent still more Liberal voters from deserting the cause. &lt;Let us be honest and say that that is the Budget's political purpose, to stop people voting Labor. But think of the other purposes that the Budget should have. It should have some justice and some equity. Where is the equity in this Budget? Consider the man on $10,000 a year - and as a politician I would like to have a salary increase. Compare my situation with that of the young lady and her husband who came into my office last Saturday. Should I have $10 a week more in my pocket or should she and her husband have $10 a week more in their pockets? The Government makes these laws, not I. Is it just that I should receive that $10 or that that young lady and her husband should receive it? The facts speak for themselves. The issue goes a lot further than that. They should not be paying tax at all on their income. But they should also have cheap housing and proper public transport so that they could live and at the very least have those child minding expenses which are incurred so that she can go to work allowed as a taxation deduction. Better still, they should not have to pay those expenses at all. All those are things which should have been included in the Budget and have not been touched upon at all. One could go on for a long time. 
The gist of this Budget is that it is political and is not an economic measure. To call it an economic measure is to indulge in farcical language. It assumes that a very bad feature of the Australian economic system - cost inflation - will continue. It assumes that unemployment is not important. lt fails to take any immediate steps to cure unemployment, steps such as increased public spending by Government, for example by the re-building of schools and, to mention a pet project of mine which I think is Labor Party policy, encouraging the formation of a Commonwealth development corporation which would in advance take care of cyclical trends in the trade cycle, and develop projects which would be held in reserve, pre.evaluated, pre-engineered, pre-costed and ready to roll at short notice in situations like this when the economy is run down. This would enable a government to be ready to react, not as this Government reacts, for short term political advantage, but to give a better deal to the people such as those whom I saw on Saturday morning, as well as the people that honourable members opposite claim to represent, the businessmen. Six hundred people went to that meeting yesterday morning and insisted upon making plans, insisted upon the right to say: 'What are we going to do in this country? At the moment we have excess capacity but we have to sit back and wait and see and cannot be given any confidence at all because this Government which is reaching the nadir of its experience now has nothing to offer us.' There is no way forward, there are no investment guidelines or policies and there is no certainty. A year ago this Government said: Full stop - all brakes on. Turn the fountain in Canberra off; turn everything off. We will stop inflation and create a pool of unemployment'. The Government now says: 'Start again. Take the brakes off and away we go.' What a sudden reversal! How on earth, given the kind of economy which honourable members opposite claim to represent, can they expect to generate confidence when they behave in that manner? 
My question, which I direct to the Prime Minister, arises from a question asked by the honourable member for Hawker last Tuesday, a question asked yesterday by the honourable member for Cunningham, and the answer given by the Minister for National Development dealing with supplies of natural gas in central Australia. I remind the Prime Minister that the Minister for National Development has said several times that it is Government policy not to export natural gas at this time. Is the Prime Minister aware of reports that an American corporation which is largely concerned with supplying American needs for natural gas - Pacific Lighting Corporation - has signed with the Palm Valley consortium comprising Magellan Petroleum Australia Ltd and other large American dominated companies a S900m agreement to export natural gas? ls this in expectation of a change of Government policy? Has there been a leak to this effect? If not, will the Prime Minister quash any such speculation? 
In some ways this report from the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory is a milestone for the Australian Capital Territory, as the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  has pointed out. It seems to be the first occasion, at least since the procedure was changed, on which the Committee has refused to give approval to a proposition to change the road plan of Canberra. The Committee serves a very important role in Canberra. With the lack of territorial government here, the Committee serves as a kind of watchdog. I am grateful for the short time that has been granted to me to speak today because I want to comment on the Committee's report. Firstly, the report talks about the lack of liaison in Canberra between Government departments. For example the Committee says that it was shocked to learn that the police were not consulted about the proposition to change the road plan. But that relates to only one aspect of the report. 
A very important principle underlies the Committee's attitude to the second point about the excessive use of the private motor car. Canberra already has a population of approximately 160,000 and this increases by about 10 per cent - or some 15,000 people - every year. It is a city designed for the mo:or car; it has almost no real public transport. One has only to see the congestion around the Russell Hill complex - that was in the Committee's mind when it drew attention to the excessive amount of space being taken up by bitumen - to realise what will happen if this development goes on in the way it is going on now. Something like 20 per cent of the urban surface is taken up with carriageways, and that does not take into account the area devoted to parking spaces. 
It is not an easy problem to solve. You cannot take away unreasonably the freedom of the ordinary citizen to use his motor car, but you have to provide him with a better system. Cities like Rome and Bologna have experimented with providing free public transport. It seems to me that that is not the complete answer, but it is something that can be thought about seriously now and at least started as a beginning. Surely we have to move in the direction of regarding the motor car as part of public transport. I am thinking of the suggestions put forward for mini-buses, dial-a-bus and things of that sort to keep the motorist off the road at least in peak times and to provide him with a better system. Why should our taxi service not be regarded more as part of the public transport system than it is now? One should consider the social cost of the motor car that follows from the congestion and is reflected in twisted bodies, third party insurance premiums, industries like the panel beating industry, the excessive amount of land devoted to the motor car and the social wastage involved in the use of the motor car. lt is parked and left useless all day, merely to take a person to work and to bring a person home. Surely in Canberra of all places, where there are plenary powers, a survey could be undertaken to determine just how much it would cost and how much cheaper overall it would be - I suggest it would be cheaper - to subsidise either a private taxi service or a government run taxi service that would pick up people and take them to work by arrangement. It would be known that people in one area wanted to work in another area, and they would be taken there and brought back. It would not be beyond the present level of computer technology. It could be done, and I suggest seriously that it must be done. In Canberra 85 per cent to 90 per cent of people drive their cars to work. That is by far the highest percentage for anywhere in Australia and probably in the whole world. For a variety of reasons Canberra has by far the highest percentage of people owning and driving motor cars. One should look at the cost of the motor car - the hire purchase cost, the depreciation cost - and at the industries it supports which could engage in more socially useful activity. This is the problem but it is linked up with other matters. 
For example, only a week or so ago the attention of the people of Canberra was drawn to the fact that the carbon monoxide levels at peak hours in Northbourne Avenue approached a standard which is the significant danger to health level, as recommended by the Government of the United States of America. The level was far in excess of the levels recommended by the World Health Organisation. It is true that it was not an average. The levels were taken at peak hour in Canberra. This is a city with only 160,000 people, yet the carbon monoxide levels are rapidly approaching those of Pitt Street in Sydney, and our population is increasing by something like 15,000 people a year. Canberra is a city designed for the motor car, but we are not taking sufficient account of the social cost of the motor car. Those are the features that underlie this report, which requires that it be given a very wide reading because it is, I believe, the beginning of an awareness of the problem that has to be solved. 
 This is the third time that I have listened to the debates on the estimates for the Parliament. The first time was in  1970.  I did not take part in the debate; I had just been elected to this House. The second time I listened. I took part in subsequent debates. Tonight I am saying a few words. This is a very depressing experience. One sees honourable members get up and beat their chests and hears them complain about the lack of facilities and what is wrong with the place. There can be no doubt that there is a great deal wrong with it. One has only to consider the experiences of each honourable member who has talked tonight and the experiences that I am now having. I am still new enough in this House, which I respect enormously, to be aware of it. When one speaks in this House it is like talking to one's reflection in a mirror. I think there is no better way of putting it. 
What has brought about this situation? Perhaps before I try to answer the question I should say that my background is law. At least when one goes into a court of law one argues and tries to persuade the court. One comes away having won or lost. 
No, it is more than that. But this is Parliament House. I had the experience not long ago of working in a little room that I shared with 3 other honourable members. This was a room the size of the average suburban lavatory. I worked hard with my colleagues in that room. The situation has now changed and the room I am now in accommodates 2 members. However, one day while I was in my first room the telephone rang. A constituent of mine rang me. He did not say who he was. However, he abused me. He had come to Parliament House, as have the ladies and gentlemen sitting in the public gallery tonight, to see the way his Parliament worked. He was horrified and shocked. At the time I was not in the chamber but in my little room trying to work against the background of the broadcasting system to which one has to keep one's ear as one is trying to do something else in order to hear what is going on in the chamber. My constituent abused me for not being in the chamber. He asked where I was and what I was doing. He had no idea of how Parliament worked. That day all the members with whom I was associated had been to one committee meeting or another. I am sure that this is applicable to members of all parties, not just to my party, (he Australian Labor Party. They had been to meetings of committees and had worked their hearts out. 
I have never known any occupational group work as hard as politicians. I am not trying to seek votes when I say that. 1 have had experience in the law. I have never known any barrister or judge or academic work  as  hard in their respective fields as do the politicians with whom I am associated. Yet, politicians are held in terrible repute. We are laughed at. We are treated with contempt and as fair game for slander. Why does this happen? I ask honourable members to look at what is happening in the chamber now. Politics has been called the theatre of reality. I cannot tell honourable members who called it that. But politicians spend a great deal of their time persuading people and trying to be advocates. A small part of their time is taken up with making decisions. 
But it seems to me that what has happened to Parliament is that it plays a very little part these days in persuading people. 
Most politicians who want to gain influence, who want to soak up ideas so that they can grow on them, who want to put forward ideas to influence people and so create public opinion which will lead to change or reform or certain legislation, go away from Parliament. They do not really talk very much here. They go to public meetings. They seek time on television and radio. This practice is becoming increasingly apparent. In fact, I suppose the only real value of talking here at the moment is that my speech is being broadcast. One would hope that some chap driving a car in Darwin, Western Australia, Brisbane or somewhere else listened to what was said by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and been struck by a piece of wisdom that he dropped. Likewise, one hopes that the motorist may have been listening to what was said by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  or someone like him. That is the only real merit that comes out of speeches being made in this place. So, we are players on a stage. But what has happened is that Parliament is not a serious theatre. All too often it has become vaudeville and slapstick, lt has become farce. 
I have not the complete answer to the question of how we can bring it back. But I want to make a few suggestions. Even before 1 do that, perhaps I could touch on a few small problems. Firstly I would like to draw attention to the facilities of this Parliament. 1 think it is terribly important that a new parliament house be built. Over the last few weeks I have presented petitions on behalf of the people who work in Parliament House protesting at working conditions. No-one outside this place knows about the shocking conditions under which the staff work. No-one ever gets into parts of the Library - the research section, the copying section or the basement where something like 1,000 people work. I ask honourable members to listen to the language used in the petitions I have presented on behalf of the staff of Parliament House. I ask the chamber to listen to the language which the staff used when they petitioned this place for reform. The petition, in part, read: 
That the inadequacy of the present parliamentary building is resulting in unpleasant, inefficient and inconvenient working conditions in the House itself. 
That  the fragmentation of  staff . . . due to the inadequacies of space in the present building causes inefficiency in staff control and working relations. 
That although the present patchwork extension system result; in better accommodation for some sections of the working population in the House it has worsened  the  accommodation in other areas . . . 
So it goes on. The petition ends with a plea for a new parliament house. It states:   . . which  will,  in the long run, be a more economical way  to  house the Parliament and which will, at the same time, be an impressive and proud symbol of Australia's progress and national unity.  1 think that the proceedings of Parliament should be televised. This suggestion will horrify some of my colleagues, but I do not know of any other way in which we can educate people to know the way in which Parliament works. I will pluck one working day out of the week to illustrate what 1 am saying. I will pick one of my own working days not because I am singing my praises in any way but because I am familiar with it. I started my working day today with a radio broadcast at half-past 8 o'clock in the morning. It is now 9.15 p.m. and the Parliament has not finished sitting. At 9 or 9.15 this morning the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory met. The Committee was attended by seven or eight members of the Parliament. The Committee hearing lasted until Parliament sat at II o'clock. At about 12 o'clock the Education Committee of the Australian Labor Party met to consider certain problems. At 12.30 the Economic and Trade Committee of the same Party met and the meeting continued right through the lunch hour. After lunch the Parliament resumed. The bells were rung for a division. In addition to this I had to attend 2 functions that are a part of this theatre of reality. I went with the honourable member for the Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  to a meeting of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and then to a meeting of the Australian Capital Territory Police Association. I am now back in the Parliament. In the course of doing all that I had to see constituents because my situation is different from that of other honourable members. I live in Canberra, which is my electorate. Here, one never gets away from one's constituents as other honourable members tend to do. 
Somehow a whole reappraisal of this rat race has to be made and the problem solved, because the present situation is leading nowhere. One goes round in circles - in ever diminishing circles - faster, faster and faster and produces nothing. I am the only back bencher in the Parliament who has 2 secretaries. 
That is right. I have three or four volunteer ladies. I pay $2,000 a year to Nipperville for the child minding expenses of volunteers. I am not crying poor or anything like that, I am not. I just want to highlight the absurdity of the situation. Three or 4 weeks ago my original secretary went down with the flu. When she got over it, she was told by her doctor not to go back to work for 3 weeks or he would not be responsible - because of the pressure of work she has been under. She came back to work today or yesterday on a half-time basis. However, the girl who had been taking her place has gone off today. When I asked my first secretary why she had gone home, I was told it was because she was obviously upset and worried and had a nervous condition because of the strain she was under for 3 or 4 weeks. I am not saying, that there is anything unique in this, because electorates are different one from another. I have been to the electorate of Riverina and have seen the way in which the honourable member for Riverina works. I have been to Townsville and seen the way in which  Senator Keeffe  works. I know that other honourable members, for example, have very little electorate work to do. 
I see that my time is almost finished and it does seem to me that so far I have touched only the peak of the iceberg. What is really wanted is a long, deep investigation into the subject. In the second or two that I have left I would like to come to my final thought, although this is quite unrelated to what I have been saying. If nothing else happened but at least if we televised the proceedings of this place and the work of the committees, people outside would see that Parliament did not function only in this chamber but that it also functioned in the committee rooms and in the back rooms of this building. 
by leave - I regret that I did not hear the opening remarks of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  but I gather that he informed the House of the Government's intention to re-notify in the Gazette' tonight or tomorrow the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance. 
Tonight. This matter has gone far beyond any question of Aboriginal land rights. It has reached the stage where the question of the abuse of Parliament is involved. There are outside now young people who regard what is happening - I am not exaggerating here - as an upsurge of the human spirit. 
I am not exaggerating. Anyone who reads the judgment of 3 of the most learned judges of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory - I have read it - will read into it an abhorrence, a distaste and a rejection of this manner of making laws. They have clearly said to themselves: 'Here is a law made while Parliament was not sitting. Here is a law - a delegated piece of legislation - which was made on a Thursday morning, when people could not obtain copies of it, and which affected fundamental rights without Parliament being given any opportunities at all to discuss it'. Drawing on the experience of thousands of years of the common law, these judges have said to themselves: 'We object to it. We reject it. We do not like it. If we can find any way in the world of disallowing it we will do so'. Anyone who reads the judgment will see that written into every line. These judges have gone through the Ordinance with a fine tooth comb. They have said: 'If there is any place where a 't' has not been crossed or an 'i' has not been dotted we will find it. Because of the way in which the Government has chosen to make this law we will put the law under a magnifying glass'. That is what is implicit in the judgment. They have found a fault in the law and their finding indicates sheer incompetence in the law-making processes of the Government that goes beyond Aborigines and camping outside Parliament House. It is incompetence that will affect many of the ordinances that have been made in the Australian Capital Territory over many years. 
I argued a similar point on some delegated legislation 5 or 6 years ago, which was long before 1 was elected to this Parliament. It concerned the rules made pursuant to the workers compensation ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. The case came before  Mr Justice  Gibbs, who is now on the High Court of Australia. He did not have to consider the argument I raised because he found the case proved on another point. This matter was being canvassed then. It is widely known that the judges of the Full Court of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory have said: 'We will subject this legislation to scrutiny because we do not like this way of making laws', and that they have done so. I remind the House that, when the first application was made to the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory in relation to this matter,  Mr Justice  Fox, I think it was, said a number of things. He said that it was a terrible way to make laws. He may not have used those exact words, but he expressed the sentiment that to wait until Parliament was in recess was a terrible way to make laws. I remind the Minister that when he was interviewed on a television programme and asked why they had waited for Parliament to rise before trying to gazette the legislation, he said that he knew the law would noi be gazetted until Parliament had risen. He said that he knew it would happen in that way. He announced to this Parliament two or three weeks before Parliament rose that he was going to do so. 1 shouted out: 'Shame. You frightened little men.' I repeat it now. 
Parliament rose and we dispersed except for one or two of us who have connections with Canberra. They slipped it through on a Thursday morning. I had to get the information from an inspector of police that the Ordinance had been gazetted. The Supreme Court in its judgment seized upon that as a reason for its finding. I am sure thai the Minister has read the judgment. It spells out the reason for the Ordinance being invalid, for its being not operative. The Supreme Court found that not only did the Government fail to make the Ordinance with sufficient particularity but it also failed to tell people where they could obtain copies of the Ordinance. 
One of the most fundamental principles of the making of laws is that citizens should know what the law is. Nothing could be more basic or fundamental to any society. This Government chose to seize upon a situation that it found distasteful. I saw nothing distasteful in it, but the Government saw it as distasteful and objected. The Government waited until Parliament was not sitting and we had dispersed. It slipped the Ordinance through, almost like a thief in the night, on a Thursday morning when no-one could find out what the law was. I said once before that the Government set the police in action as though it was sooling them on to these people, and I repeat it now. lt caused violence not only to the demonstrators who had been there for 6 months in complete peace but also to the police, to whom the Government owes a responsibility and who are my constituents. 
The judgment contains an expression of distaste and abhorrence, an expression of regret that any Australian government could make a law in this manner. Underlying the judgment is the thinking of the judges that there is a better tradition, a higher law. In effect they say: 'We will examine it and scrutinise it. If you have made any mistake we will find it.' They found a mistake and set the Ordinance aside. They declared it invalid. It goes far beyond the question of Aboriginal land rights and becomes an abuse of this Parliament. I do not know whether the young people out there are black, blue, brindle, pink or yellow and I do not really care. I do not care what the tent is. Those people are there because they are trying to express a principle, to assert a right in which they believe. It is a bit of common ground. One does not have to go back far into history to discover the tradition of the common lands. That is what they are trying to follow. 
The Minister has come into the chamber after 11 o'clock at night and has flown in the face of everything implied in the judgment of the 3 learned judges of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court. He has said: 'We are going to re-gazette it now.' I ask the Minister whether he plans to re-gazette the thousand or more ordinances of this city on other matters. Perhaps this is a red herring, but people have been put in gaol because of the process of law making in the Australian Capital Territory in which the Government has engaged. People have had their civil rights determined on the basis of that law making process. Decisions have been made that would have been made differently if the laws had been made properly. Properly disputes have been settled in a way that would have been different had the laws been made properly. Workers compensation disputes would have been settled differently had the laws been made properly. Now the Minister says at 11.15 p.m.: We will re-gazette it'. All I can say is that it makes a mockery of this Parliament. When one hears the continual references to the decline of Parliament, surely this is evidence that supports them. 
What else can one say? Young people are out there. Are we to see tomorrow members of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force told to go in there and take down those tents again? Are we to see word go out to the country: 'Come, rally here; support us'? Will there be violence again because this Government not only does not know what to do or even how to do it but also is determined to create dissension and violence throughout the country? The Minister for the Interior is talking to one of his colleagues. Perhaps he does not want to listen. Perhaps he does not know the answers. I can imagine a government not wishing to be caught in the dilemma in which this Government finds itself. But I suggest to the Minister that no violence is being done out there on those lawns at this moment. No social mischief is taking place. They are young people who are well motivated. I am sure that the Minister, in his own mind and in the inner recesses of his thought processes, accepts this. They are doing no violence to anyone. They are creating no social mischief. 
I ask the Minister for the Interior to reconsider. Leave them there. They will do no harm. They are making a political point beyond the point of Aboriginal land rights, which originally brought them there. They are now trying to assert a principle that Parliament should be supreme, that it should not be enough for the Minister to come into the Parliament and say: 'I will give a direction that will result in a journal called the Government 'Gazette' being published tomorrow that will make a law that the Full Court of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory has said this afternoon was invalid'. What is democracy all about? Are we not to be allowed to discuss it? Is the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  not to be allowed to discuss it? Is the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  not to be allowed to discuss it? Is the Minister for Social Services who, I hope, has strong views on this not to be allowed to discuss it? 
He sits in the back of the House and is silent. If the Minister and the Government are to make a law now in these circumstances at 11.20 at night by telling us that he has given instructions - this is as I understand him - that there shall be a notification in the Government Gazette' tomorrow to make a law of these consequences that could produce violence, without any debate in the Parliament, they bring shame on the Parliament. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached in the preparation of an ordinance regulating physiotherapists in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Is it a fact that the first draft ordinance was prepared as long ago as 1962 and that no final ordinance has yet been promulgated. 
What are the reasons for the delay in enacting a physiotherapists ordinance. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Unesco Education Congress be held in Australia in 1973? 
Is the Congress considered to be important by the Government? 
Will Australia be represented at the Congress? 
Will the Government assist in financing the Congress; if not, why not? 
If so, (a) to what extent will the Government assist the Congress and (b) what percentage of the overall assistance provided by those countries represented at the Congress will be provided by the Australian Government? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. In the Australian Broadcasting Commission news broadcast this morning dealing with the incidents outside Parliament House this morning at about  1  o'clock I was reported as having said to the police that they were acting in a manner reminiscent of a police state. That is not true. I did not say that, although it can be easily understood how the journalist might have made the error. What I said was that from the way this Government was acting no-one could be blamed for thinking that the Government believed it was managing a police state. I went on to talk to the police about the importance of this Parliament and the need for better processes for the making of laws. I said to them that the rule of law, they themselves having such an important part to play - 
No, I am endeavouring to say what I said, in contrast with what the ABC said I said. Surely I am entitled to say that. 
No, I am not,  Mr Speaker.  I said to the police that there could be few more important things in the world than the rule of law. I said to the police that there could be few more important things than the proper functioning of this Parliament. I said to the police that there could be few more despicable things than what this Government was doing to this Parliament in abusing the Parliament by making laws in the way in which it had made and gazetted the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance. 
The misrepresentation was that what I am relating now was left out. 
Yes. I went on to stress that when a Labor government came to power it would see that the police were given better and more socially valuable duties to perform. I hope to repeat those messages to them tonight when I address a police association meeting. 
by leave - I will not take up much time because much of what I wanted to say has already been said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  The report of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory is surely a significant one. I do not know of any report that has taken such an almost radical stand on the limits of growth. The fact that there is unanimity among the members of the Committee, irrespective of Party, on this subject is surely a strong reflection of the feeling in the community on the dangers of unlimited growth. The suggestion that Canberra be geared so that growth will level off at a population of about 500,000 in order to benefit the people of Canberra is a major step in political thinking. There are other excellent features in this report and I am sure that when people have time to read it they will detect and study them. 
But there is one point in particular on which 1 would like to comment and that is the chapter on married women. If that chapter is studied it will be seen to constitute a contribution to a subject that is very difficult, that is, the need to provide diversity in employment opportunities for married women. Again there was complete unanimity among the members of the Committee on this subject. The Committee unanimously adopted certain findings of the Canadian Royal Commission on the Status of Women and made 5 recommendations. These related to the need for child care facilities at a cost to parents which would not impose hardship; vacation centres for the care of children of working mothers; the provision of a much extended system of occupational training for women whose employment has been interrupted by the raising of a family; the provision of incentives to private employers able and willing to employ women on a part time and/ or tandem basis. Though the Commonwealth Public Service should take the initiative in this regard, I suggest that these are all matters of some significance. Finally the Committee referred to the need for an immediate and detailed study by the Department of Labour and National Service to ensure that the foregoing provisions are sufficient to enable women in Canberra to exercise effective choice of employment opportunities. If it can be done here it can be, done in other parts of Australia. 
 May I commence by congratulating the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)?  There are perhaps one or two things which he said and with which I would not agree but I am sure that he touched the feeling of honourable members on this side of the House notwithstanding the fact that he sits on that side of the House. I can only hope that he won through to the hearts and minds of his colleagues. May I say also at this stage before I make my more general remarks, that the amendment that was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  when he spoke earlier is designed to achieve largely what the honourable member for Moreton has put. It is an amendment designed to relieve these  27  men in the situation in which they now find themselves. They could be put back into a position in which they are in peril again through what is in essence a retrospective piece of legislation affecting vested rights, civil liberties, remedies, liabilities, privileges and everything in which we have all been brought up to believe. 
The honourable member for Moreton mentioned Chief Justice Hewitt. I suppose that many of us were brought up on Hewitt's writings and The New Despotism'. Surely that is what we have seen in this embassy case. This is perhaps what the honourable member for Moreton was trying to say - that we are seeing the new despotism. We have seen it reach its peak. I remind the House of some of the facts because not only have I been a member of this House speaking on this subject regularly since the Parliament resumed in February this year but I have seen the whole sorry tale unfold and I have also been a witness to some of its effects, fortuitously perhaps because this incident happened in my electorate. I was present on the Thursday when the ordinance - you can call it the 'first', second' or 'the Ordinance' - was gazetted or purported to have been gazetted. At that time I could remember that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  had been in this House  3  weeks before it rose and had told us that he was going to bring in an ordinance and I recall how he had been criticised for putting it in that way. He had been criticised previously. I remind honourable members of the way in which petitions were presented and read to the House asserting the right of the demonstration to stay in front of the House and the various ways in which the issue came up as we went along month by month. Before I get too far away from the subject, may I just pick up - because I am reminded to do so - the remarks of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  which he made in one of the debates in which he lashed out vigorously on this subject a little while ago. The right honourable gentleman described the Aboriginal embassy as a tent city. I have heard the point of view put around that, if this sort of thing were permitted, everybody would come here - wharfies and everyone else - and we would have a slum in front of Parliament House. Surely this is nonsense. I am going to call, if I may, a witness to say that it is nonsense and the witness is no less a person than  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Fox of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. Surely he is a non-partisan observer. At page 2 of his judgment he puts the nail to the lie when he says this: 
These persons, encamped as mentioned, constituted what has come to be known as the Aboriginal Embassy. The purpose of the Embassy was to bring to the attention of members of Parliament and others, matters of complaint concerning the welfare of the aboriginal race and in particular their 'land rights'. Apparently no attempt was made during the period mentioned by anyone in authority to remove the tents; it is not suggested that the behaviour of Embassy members or their visitors was other than orderly. I emphasise the last sentence, which reads:  it is not suggested that the behaviour of Embassy members or their visitors was other than orderly. 
In fact, as a witness to what happened I can tell the House that the demonstrators attracted a lot of tourist support. Children collected signatures and went away with embassy literature. It was essentially a political demonstration. On 20th July 1972 rumour had it that the ordinance was to be gazetted. I am a lawyer. I am supposed to know my way around in the law. I am the Federal member for this area yet I could not find out in Canberra whether it had been gazetted. The Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library could not find out for me. This comes back to what the honourable member for Moreton was saying: What a way to make laws and to let people know whether a law had been made which would convert something that had been legal into something that was illegal, in the darkness of night, cloaked in secrecy. Eventually I found out from an inspector of police who happens to be a good friend of mine. I went over to where the tents were. I saw no violence even at that time. I saw the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  there. The police had removed 3 or 4 - maybe it was 2 or 3; I do not know - of the tents. The remaining tent which carried the sign 'Aboriginal Embassy' and the flag - it is a symbol of the demonstration - had been surrounded by 20 or 30 people who were mainly Aborigines but included some white supporters. I saw the Reverend Jim Udy there. He is a well known and respected clergyman in Canberra.  His  arms were linked with those of other men around the tent. I saw the Reverend George Garnsey there. He also was linked with somebody else around the tent. What were they doing? They were singing *We shall overcome'. Where is the violence in that? Up to that stage, this had been one of the most peaceful demonstrations, testified to by  Mr Justice  Fox, that this country has ever seen. It was a testimony to their peaceful intent in relation to Aboriginal land rights. 
Then, of course, the police were given their instructions, which they have to obey. They were told to move in and break up the demonstration and dismantle the tent. Then the violence happened. I have said over and over again that I do not know and I do not care who threw the first punch; it was inevitable once that stage bad been reached. There were arrests that day, but I do not know the number. When an attempt was made to put up the tent on the Sunday, 27 arrests were made and property was confiscated. People were taken into custody, kept in custody and fingerprinted. This situation still exists, because these people have not yet been brought to trial. The administration of justice in the Australian Capital Territory at the moment is such that it is very difficult to get a case brought on for trial. Criminal matters such as this sometimes can be adjourned for a year. I know of other matters that have been adjourned for more than 10 months before a date has been set for the first hearing. People who have had experience with the courts know that after a matter has been set down for hearing it can be stood over for lengthy' periods of time. People do not receive a very high standard of justice in that sort of situation. 
Challenges were made through the courts. The honourable member for Moreton said that it is axiomatic in any basic system for people to know what the law is so that they can be guided by it and assess what their actions will be. Obviously the lawyer who acted for these people thought that they had a good argument. Three Supreme Court judges agreed with him. As was suggested by the honourable member for Moreton and as is proposed by our foreshadowed amendment, these charges should be withdrawn. Presumably, if any competent lawyer bad been there on that Thursday morning and his advice had been sought he would have said: 'This ordinance is still not valid'. I use the words 'not valid' to mean unenforceable or inoperable. I think it matters not which term is used; the ordinance at that stage was not law. One can play with words, but the situation does not change. Presumably, any competent lawyer would have said to these people: 'They cannot do what they are trying to do to you. You are entitled to stand your ground as any citizen is entitled to do if someone comes along and uses illegal force against him'. In that sense, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out, a policeman is no different from any other citizen. Had these people been given that advice, they would have known that they were entitled to do what they did, namely, stand by their tents and sing their song. 
I remember that, after the fracas and discussion that followed, the Minister for the interior  (Mr Hunt)  went on television, and i was amazed to hear him say that he knew when he made his statement to the Parliament before it went into recess that the ordinance would be gazetted after Parliament went into recess and that no attempt would be made to make it law while Parliament was sitting. Given all the disadvantages of delegated legislation or subordinate legislation, about which the honourable member for Moreton has spoken, one asks: Why on earth would a Minister of the Crown have in his mind the intent to wait until Parliament dispersed and its members went to their various localities - Darwin, Townsville, Melbourne, Brisbane, Sydney, Perth and so on - and then slip the ordinance through? Perhaps he was aware that members of the Labor Part)' had indicated their opposition to it and intended to give whatever support they could to the demonstrators; 1 do not know. However, his actions were an abuse of this Parliament. There can be no doubt or suspicion about that, and there can he no weakening of that proposition. 
I come now to what happened last night. There was a court decision which upheld an appeal lodged by the people concerned, thus reflecting the healthy and long tradition of English trained judges, Australian trained judges and American trained judges that this sort of legislation is rotten and is to be opposed at all costs. A strict and high standard should be demanded of any government that tries to enact this type of legislation. It may be of interest to honourable members to look at the final words of  Mr Justice  Blackburn and  Mr Justice  Connor which appear at page 5 of their separate judgment. After giving other reasons why they decided to declare this purported law not to be a law, they said: 
These considerations strengthen the conclusion to which we have come, that Parliament must have intended that the public should be informed in plain terms that an ordinance had been made. 
Of course, what they were talking about there was the requirement in the Seat of Government (Administration) Act that if subordinate legislation is to be introduced the people have to be informed. Also there is a set formula of words in which to frame it. This once again stresses the weakness of the system that has been foisted on the Australian Capital Territory and other parts of the country for so long, the Act requires that the public be informed if this type of legislation is to be introduced. The thing that strikes me is what 2 justices then went on to say. In my experience I have never known judges to say this sort of thing. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  might bear me out on this. I have never known a judge to say to counsel: 'I will settle the form of the notice you need'. I have sometimes heard junior counsel indicate that they do not know how to do it, although one would hope that counsel appearing for the Crown and people advising the Commonwealth would know something about their trade. But here we have 2 learned judges actually spelling out what the Commonwealth should do. By implication they said: 'We accept that you do not know how to do it. We accept that you do not know how to say that an ordinance has been made.' Let us just reflect on that: We accept that you do not know how to say where copies of the ordinance may be purchased and we will tell you how to do it'. The actual remarks of the 2 judges can be found in the final pages of the judgment. 
This leads me to deal with the questions of incompetence and haste. This morning we fought an argument in relation to the suspension of Standing Orders. Honourable members on this side of the House only wanted a little time to think this matter out. We accept that because of the invalidity flowing from this reasoning all manner of cases have gone wrong and legal rights have been upset, and these things have to be put right. But haste breeds haste; it feeds on itself and it produces confusion, uncertainty and further mistakes. Already this is happening. For example, the ordinance was gazetted at 1 o'clock this morning. How can anyone read at at 1 o'clock in the morning? 1 was opposite Parliament House myself. We could not hear it being read because of the wind that was blowing and the rain that was coming down. After the ordinance was made in that hasty way, the Government has the nerve, I suppose - or maybe it does this out of embarrassment - to offer another amendment. It wants to spell out something it forgot to do before. The effect of its proposed amendment is this: It has to tell the world, where there have been 2 or more publications, as there have been now, which one it expects the world to rely on. The Government forgot to include this in its original notification in the Gazette. How incompetent can one get? Like the Leader of the Opposition who drew attention to these matters, I will be surprised if last night's Gazette does not produce another legal argument in another court. The document was published - if that word has any meaning at all - in the early hours of 13th September. But it bears the date 12th September. Honourable members might think that is a minor matter; but, because our judges feel strongly about traditions of this sort, it is a starting point. The document states: 
Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1901- 1972. 
There is no such Act. There are about 5 Seat of Government (Administration) Acts in respect of the Australian Capital Territory. The one I have just mentioned does not exist. If the whole purpose of the requirement in the relevant Act - the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910 - is to tell people where they can find their law, they will look for a long time to find this law, because it does not exist. The notice under it reads: 
Notice is hereby given that pursuant to the above Act . . . 
So a normally prudent individual might say: 'If I want to know what the law is that the Government is fiddling with, changing or doing something about at 1 o'clock in the morning I should look not at all those ordinances but at the Act'. But there is no Act, so he will be looking for a long while. The Act does not exist. One can leave it only to the imagination to suggest what will be said about that situation by a court if the matter ever gets back to a court. 
This brings us back again to the question of competency. There are 102 ordinances referred to in this purported gazettal made at 1 o'clock last night. I will protect myself by calling it a purported gazettal. Why did the Government choose those 102? I do not know; nobody knows. Ten of the ordinances are called the Trespass an Commonwealth Lands Ordinance and date back to 1932; 36 are called the Motor Traffic Ordinance and date back to 1936; 17 are called the Police Ordinance and date back to 1927; 17 are called the City Area Leases Ordinance and date back to 1936; and 18 are called the Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance and date back to 1930. I will wager with anyone that there is not one of those ordinances in print in its original form. Some of the ordinances may have been found in consolidations here and there and changed but I will wager with anyone that one could not lay one's hand on the vast majority of them. So they could not be identified and one would not know what this meant. This gazettal therefore is not worth the paper it is written on which is an indictment of the state of law reform in the Australian Capital Territory. 
One would not even know and certainly could not be sure whether these ordinances were made pursuant to the Seat of Government (Administration) Act - that is, the correct one of 1910 and not the nonexistent one of 1901. How would one know? There are other enabling Acts and the ordinances could have been made under those, so further confusion is introduced. Why did the Government single out 102 ordinances? The reasoning in this 'judgment is far more damaging to far more ordinances than these 102. Presumably someone in great anxiety yesterday afternoon or last night said: 'The police are to be put in some time after Parliament rises tonight to get rid of these people. We have to give the police protection'. I can understand that argument. 
Someone - I am guessing here but I hope it is an inspired guess - must have said: What ordinances exist in this city which are now invalid but which need to be validated to give the police the necessary protection?' A quick search has produced these 102 but not the thousands of others which are invalid. I was told this morning that adoptions were off in Canberra at the moment, that an adoption appointment with one of the judges was cancelled this morning because the adoptions ordinance was invalid. A woman rang me at 7.30 this morning to say that her son had been convicted about 3 or 4 months ago and she was very angry about the conviction. She asked did this help her in any way. The young lady who was given a term of imprisonment the other day for handing out leaflets advising young men to break the National Service Act should not have been put in gaol because the magistrates have not been properly appointed. The Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance which gives power to appoint magistrates is at this moment invalid. 
So wherever one looks in this city at the moment there is no law.  Mr Dobson,  the Senior Stipendiary Magistrate, has stopped the sittings of his court because of this. No-one knows what laws are valid or invalid, lt is a terrible indictment of what this Liberal-Country Party Government has done for us in 23 years that this uncertainty can exist. I can remember - and I will finish on this note leaving with honourable members on both sides the suggestion that the most important aspect is the amendment about which I will be talking in the Committee stage - that 3 or 4 years ago a man called Taylor was convicted of a small offence in Canberra and sentenced to 3 months imprisonment. He took his appeal on the severity of the penalty to the High Court only to find that the Removal of Prisoners Act - not the ordinance - which had provided for an administrator to be appointed in Canberra to sign the necessary documents to transport people into the New South Wales gaol system had never been appointed. The High Court let the young man out - and this, too, is relevant to the amendment - which meant that every man who bad been committed to the New South Wales gaol system had been committed illegally. 
 The evidence mounts and the evidence accumulates as to the price we are paying for the haste - the illconsidered haste - that surrounds all of this little exercise. The rushing through of this ordinance last night and its attempted gazettal at half past 12 or 1 o'clock, whenever it was in the early hours of this morning, have just been confirmed again by the Minister's belated attempt to say: 
Well here is something' - a piece of mumbo-jumbo it will appear to future legal historians - 'that is to clear up a doubt that even the Government on reflection has discovered.' Clause 1a  -  it is not clause 2 or clause 3, it is clause 1a  -  is a provision, to fit in somewhere between clauses 1 and 2. It reads: 
Where there have been 2 or more publications in the Gazette of forms of words being, purporting to be, or apparently intended to be, notices or notifications of a kind referred to in the last preceding subsection in relation to the same Ordinance, regulations, rules, by-laws or instrument, that subsection applies only in relation to the earlier or earliest of those publications. 
Lawyers will wonder what that means. I do not think there is any opposition to the amendment. It is a tragedy that it is necessary because it would be nice to think that we could be moving in the direction of a coherent, sensible, readable system of laws. But while this Government persists in its attempts to make laws in this matter and races ahead with something at 1 o'clock in the morning will we continually be asked to accept something like this just to clear things up? I pose that question. 
 I move: 
After clause 3, add the following new clause: 4. Nothing in this Act affects in any way the rights and liabilities in civil and criminal law of persons charged with offences arising out of incidents outside Parliament House, Canberra on Thursday, 20th July 1972 and Sunday, 23rd July 1972 where those charges or incidents arise out of or are related to the purported notification in the Gazette of 20th July 1972 of the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1972. 
The purport of this amendment is clear. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  understands it. He has referred to it already. It seeks to remove from peril the 27 people who were arrested outside this House, some on the Thursday and some on the Sunday. I confess quite readily that I am addressing my remarks to the honourable members for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  on the Government side of the House because I believe that they have shared the experiences that I have shared. They have been largely subjected to the influences to which I have been subjected. I am not suggesting that lawyers belong to a club or anything of that sort but I do believe that there is a community of interests or sympathies or loyalties to a sense of value that this Government has completely rejected and thrown out the window long ago. I can understand their sense of conflict. 
Here were people assembled peacefully outside this Parliament House. As the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory has said, they were not breaking any law, and they were put upon by the police. I do not blame the police because this Government decided on a course of action. In the course of the fracas that followed a number of offences ensued including assault- 
You mind your peace. I have had 1.5 years experience in the courts, which is more than you have had. The offences alleged included assault, insulting words and hindering police in the performance of their duty. Anyone who has had the experience - the honourable member for Moreton has had it right to his ears and it has enriched him and made him in part what he is today and the same applies to the honourable member for Diamond Valley - would know what can happen. We all know how charges are laid. 
It is clear that the people arrested were not breaking the law at that time. J do not know what was the state of their minds but I have spoken to the Minister for 
Primary Industry who is handling this matter and who is at the table at the moment. I do not think I am revealing a confidence when I say that I asked him whether the charges could be withdrawn. If this were done, we on this side would withdraw our amendment. I asked the Minister to let these people go and not to drag them through the courts. It has been proved objectively that at the time when they were there, peacefully, singing a song, they were not breaking any law; the court has said this. They may have believed they were breaking a law as I may have believed it and as other honourable members may have believed it but they were not; the court has said so. They should not now be put back into the position where they were breaking a law. 
I spoke to the Minister for Primary Industry and he said that I should see the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  I break no confidences when I tell this House that I spoke to the Attorney-General. Do you know what he told me,  Mr Chairman? 
I am not concerned with that. I understood the AttorneyGeneral to say - I listened to him very carefully - that if I could assure him that the people who were arrested believed on that Thursday morning that they were not breaking the law, he would take whatever course he could take as the AttorneyGeneral of Australia to see that these charges were withdrawn. 
Let us think through the consequences of that attitude. The Attorney-General is saying that if I stand here now and it is not an offence to walk across to where my friend, the honourable member for Moreton, sits, but I believe it to be an offence and I walk across there, a law maker can then say: 'I will treat you as having broken the law, even though you did not'. That is what the Attorney-General of Australia has said and that is exactly what has happened. I repeat this because it is worth reflecting on; that is exactly what has happened. He said that he will withdraw the charges because objectively they were not breaking the law; the ordinance was invalid. However, because they believed they were breaking the law - it is a state of mind - and even though the law as it was at the time and as found by the court was that they had not broken any law- 
Let the PostmasterGeneral reflect on it and think about it or talk to the honourable member for Moreton behind him and see how much nonsense is in it. 
Turn around and talk to the honourable member for Moreton and see what he says. The AttorneyGeneral has adopted a most hypocritical attitude. He said that people who did not break the law because the law was not there to be broken but who, in the confused state of things, thought they were breaking the law shall be treated as though they did break the law. That is the simplicity of the matter and that is why we are pushing this amendment. I do not get excited about these things. The Opposition will lose. We lose all the time. That is the charade and the farce of this place; there is no debate in this House. 
Yes, there is a very good reason - you have the numbers; but you will not have them for very much longer. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
 I take this opportunity during the debate on the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department to give some arguments as to why Australia needs a bill of rights. I believe it needs a bill of rights because the existing safeguards in our laws are no longer sufficient to give full protection to personal civil liberties in an ever changing world which increasingly feels pressures curtailing these civil liberties. Put in another way, it can be said that Australia needs a bill of rights so that we can enlarge and extend existing areas of freedom. The events in this Parliament of the last few weeks concerning just one example - the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance - have shown how easy it is for a government to bypass the Parliament and make a law by decree that makes illegal what was previously legal and effectually destroys one unusually imaginative and attractive form of the right of peaceful assembly. Spokesmen for conservative governments in countries like England and Australia have traditionally argued that there is no need for a bill of rights. They have always maintained that the ordinary processes of the common law are good enough. In saying this, such spokesmen always forget that within the common law itself, charters of individual rights have played an important part in the development of the common law and the British Constitution, which rests on the common law and from which Australia draws so many of its values. 
Examples can easily be given. The Magna Carta, the Petition of Right and the Bill of Rights have all been described at times as the pillars of the British Constitution. But it is interesting to consider why they have been regarded in this way. Perhaps it is because they possess a special sanctity because of the circumstances in which they were enacted. Perhaps it is because they reflect what is considered a fundamental value that is worth preserving. They have this force, notwithstanding that they can be repealed or altered in the United Kingdom with the same facility as any clog and goat Act. Conservative commentators have also said that these 3 documents and the spirit behind them are sufficient and that they guarantee our rights against executive encroachment. I do not agree and I suggest that it is clear today, that they are not enough. 
For example, let us compare ourselves wilh some other countries that are comparable to Australia. Long ago the United States of America went much further than Britain and Australia. The law of civil liberties in the United States of America revolves around the first  10  amendments to the American Constitution which are known collectively as the Bill of Rights. The United States law of civil liberties leans heavily on the first amendment which reads: 
Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the government for a redress of grievances. 
It would be constructive to reflect on the description given to the Aboriginal embassy demonstration by some of the judges of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, because the words used by those judges, if they mean anything at all, mean that the embassy was an exercise of the right of peaceful assembly. There can be little doubt that if the demonstration had occurred in, say, Washington, things would not have happened there as they happened here - at least, not in  1972. 
Let us again compare the Australian situation with that pertaining in the United States of America. As I have said, the primary civil liberties in the American constitutional context are freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of the Press, freedom of assembly and freedom of petition. Consider how the Austraiian Government's pressures on the Australian Broadcasting Commission would be more easily resisted if Australia had a Bill of Rights. Consider how the sometimes excessive use of the power of privilege would be more easily resisted if Australia had a Bill of Rights. Consider how the sometimes excessive fear of our contempt rule and our sub judice rule could be more easily overcome and balanced if Australia had a Bill of Rights. The examples multiply. The excessive secrecy that the Australian Government forces on its public servants would more easily be broken down if Australia had a Bill of Rights. 
There are other civil liberties in the United States of America which are guaranteed by other constitutional amendments - for example, the freedom from unreasonable searches and the freedom from seizures that are protected by the American Fourth Amendment, and the right not to testify against oneself that is protected by the Fifth Amendment. In Australia unreasonable searches and seizures are used by governments. The case a year or so ago against the publisher, Maxwell Newton, proved this. The efforts of the courts to give protection against such searches and seizures would be made much easier if Australia had a Bill of Rights. At Manuka Oval here in Canberra during the Springbok tour citizens of Canberra generally were searched before being able to watch a football match. The power of the courts to give protection against that sort of thing would have been greater if .Australia had a Bill of Rights. The right not to testify without incurring adverse comment, which will become weaker if the proposed Commonwealth Criminal Code ever becomes a reality, would be easier to protect and preserve if Australia had a Bill of Rights. The preservation of the general right to trial by jury, which has largely been lost in Australia, would have been easier to preserve if our High Court had had a proper Bill of Rights provision to interpret. Capital punishment would be easier to abolish if we had a basic entrenched statement that there should be no cruel or unusual punishments, such as exists in California. 
In recent years many countries have recognised the obvious advantages to be gained by a re-assertion of fundamental rights both from a protective point of view and from an educative point of view. The United Nations Charter is an example. The latest country comparable to our own to do so was Canada. In 1960 Canada enacted a Bill of Rights for Canadians. Because of the differences between the Canadian Constitution and our own and because in particular the residual powers in the Canadian system rest with the Canadian Parliament, no constitutional amendment was necessary. Honourable members should note that the Canadian Bill of Rights was passed and became law without one dissenting voice. Therein surely lies a message. If we in Australia ever get to the stage of moving for a constitutional amendment to enact a Bill of Rights or to include one in our Constitution, I would hope that the same situation would apply here, I suggest that to argue against a Bill of Rights in such a situation would be something like arguing against the Ten Commandments. 
There are problems. For example, there is probably a distinction to be drawn between personal civil liberties and the dogmatic assertion of economic rights, particularly when they apply to great corporations. The various cases that have found their way into the United States Supreme Court, particularly during the 1930s, have proved this conclusively, if proof was needed. The history of section 92 of our own Constitution has also proved the need for a distinction to be drawn. Problems can also occur when special legislation is required to confer special remedial benefits on certain deprived or prejudiced groups. However, such problems and difficulties can be overcome by careful drafting and, I am sure, by the enthusiastic acceptance by Australian courts of the new role, were it to be given to them. It has happened in the United States of America. It is happening in Canada. It can happen in Australia. It would open up another new and exciting area for law and order here in Australia. 
There are several ways in which a Bill of Rights could be expressed. For example, there could be a constitutional amendment guaranteeing protection of civil liberties within the areas of the Commonwealth's jurisdiction only. There could be a constitutional amendment guaranteeing the protection of the same civil liberties within both the area of the State parliaments and the area of the Commonwealth. There could even be an amendment which would be only a rule of construction as in the Canadian Bill of Rights, which would give way to whatever was the current legislative intent of Parliament. There could be a Commonwealth statute which would operate only in the Commonwealth Territories and which would be a standard against which delegated or subordinate legislation had to compete. I put it to the Committee that a Bill of Rights not only would enlarge greatly the area of civil liberties in Australia, give protection and open up an imaginative new area for the development of Australian constitutional jurisprudence but also would be an important re-assertion of our belief in certain basic values that would have a great effect on the education of all Australians. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
When will the results of the Community Preferences Study conducted by his Department in 1971 be released. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
In view of the decision of the Government not to build a heated swimming pool in Canberra at this time, will the answers to the questions concerning the desirability of an indoor recreation complex, asked of 2,000 Canberra households, by the Department in its 1971 Community Preferences Study, be made public before the rest of the results are published. 
Has the National Capital Development Commission considered the desirability of having an indoor sporting and recreation centre built in Canberra; if so, what stage has been reached in this consideration. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
When was the Civic Swimming Centre constructed and opened to the public. 
What was the cost of construction. 
What is the wages bill each year for the staff employed at the Centre. 
How many people: 
purchased the right of admission or 
attended during each of the last 5 years. 
What were the total receipts derived from the Centre in each of those years. 
Can he compare, as a percentage, the use of this pool with comparable pools in New South Wales. 
If the number of people using the Centre compares unfavourably with the number of people using similar centres in New South Wales, has any consideration been given to enclosing the pool and the surrounding areas as an indoor recreation complex, with the existing pool then being heated. 
Will he take steps to ensure that additional pools constructed in Canberra are enclosed and heated and made part of an overall indoor sporting and recreational complex so that greater utilisation can be made of the facilities provided. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Will he describe the system whereby  Mr Webster  of L. J. Hooker Ltd auctions crown land in Canberra. 
Is  Mr Webster  or L. J. Hooker Ltd paid for the work of being the auctioneer; if so, is the work paid for by commission or pursuant to some other type of agreement. 
Ifmoney is paid by commission, what are the conditions of the agreement, rates of commission and the sum paid in each of the last 10 years. 
If money is not paid by commission, what is the nature of the agreement, indicating its essential terms, and the sum paid to  Mr Webster  or L. J. Hooker Ltd in each of the last 10 years. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and it arises out of the question by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition yesterday concerning an election date. Will the Prime Minister tell us why he refuses to announce the election date? If it is correct that 2 people other than himself know the date, will he tell the House the names of those people so that honourable members can seek them out and ask them? Finally, in view of the decision of the Government on this subject, is it not childish, immature and at least irresponsible for a Government at the end of September in an election year to refuse to disclose the date of the election? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the present ambulance service run by the Government in Canberra operates at a loss estimated at about $150,000 per annum. 
Is it also a fact that ambulance charges in the Australian Capital Territory cover about 20 per cent of the cost of running the service. 
Was a submission put forward by the Department of Health in 1971, based on the Llewellyn Davies report on the AjC.T. Health Care Services, recommending that alt health services in the A.C.T. be controlled by a National Capital Health Commission. 
Was a report on a proposed ambulance scheme made by the Department of Health in 1971 which recommended bringing the A.C.T. into line with the States and which was to be submitted to the Minister for his approval. 
If so, (a) has the Minister received the submission and the report, (b) has he considered them, (c) will he make them available to the public and (d) when, will the recommendations be implemented. 
1 would like to . take the opportunity during this debate, in the short time of 10:-minutes allowed,  to' say 'a few words about the problems being presented by what I see as- the' inadequacies of foreign aid, particularly when I consider the activities and the good work being done at the moment by the Action for World Development movement. The Action for World Development movement came into existence as' the brainchild of the World Council of Churches and the Catholic "Church. It has existed primarily as a lobby group concerned with "petitioning governments, making its views known and putting itself forward as the conscience of the developed countries of the world as far as the problem of poverty in the under-developed countries is concerned. 
Let me start by quoting from an introduction to the book 'The Challenge of World Poverty' by Gunnar Myrdal. The introduction was written by . Francis O. Wilcox -who is probably well known as the Dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies at Washington in the United States of America. The introduction was written at the end of 1969, so it is a little dated. He said: 
As we move  into  the 1970s, 2 great problems stand out above all others: (1) how the world community can avoid the kind of conflicts that might lead to all-out nuclear war; and (2) how we can utilise world resources so that mankind may be able to meet the urgent challenge of poverty and then move on to better things. 
Professor Wilcox went on to add: 
The sad truth is that we have not made very much progress on either of these fronts. On the economic side, there has been a great deal of talk but not nearly enough capital for development purposes. . . . Ten years ago the United Nations declared the 1960s the Decade of Development. 
The problem that was posed by the learned gentleman seems to be still with us. If we analyse the history of aid from developed countries to under-developed countries we do not have a very pretty picture in terms of proper motives or altruism. 
It is not very difficult to cast one's mind back to the end of the Second World War and recall Marshall Aid. Marshall Aid was poured into Europe in particular and was primarily intended as a political weapon to contain communism. .It is true that it helped to put Europe on Its feet, and it was -successful in achieving both ends. But if would be a mistake to confuse the altruism" that is sometimes identified with Marshall Aid with the prime political purpose it was intended to serve. The history of foreign aid can' be traced since that time. It. does, not have an earlier history. The movement of men, materials and wealth to and from the developed and the undeveloped countries before the Second World War was mainly a matter of what could be called the imperialistic and neoimperialistic systems. When foreign aid came into existence after the Second World War it was primarily intended to achieve a political aim. The Russians gave steel mills to the Indians. We poured money in here and there wherever we thought it would serve our own selfish interests. If the recipients benefited, no harm was done. 
But let us not fool ourselves: We were thinking of ourselves. That can be seen in the preference given to bi-lateral types of aid as opposed to multi-lateral types of aid. France - it is one of the countries that exceeds the Australian contributions - poured its aid into Tunisia and the exFrench colonies. The Netherlands -in a different way did the same sort of thing. That is another country that exceeds Australia's contributions. We did exactly the same thing in Papua New Guinea. I am not really suggesting that this should not be done, because we are all human beings, but I think we do ourselves a disservice when we put forward the idea that we are doing it because we really want to help that country for its own sake. We do not, except insofar as its improvement benefits us. 
When we examine the failings of the foreign aid schemes of the world we observe the waste, the inefficiency and, in particular, the wealth that has been given to corrupt regimes and governments in under-developed countries irrespective of how they used that aid. One sees the same situation developed to the stage of being a caricature, because then it really is wasted and it only perpetuates a regime that foists itself on the people of that particular area. We must learn to realise, as Wendell Willkie once said, that we need one world or a global village and to rely more on the multi-lateral agencies even if, when contrasted with our own narrow national interests, we say: They may not spend the money. They may not give the aid Li the interests of Australia in particular.' The United Nations agencies might well say that it is better to put the Australian contribution into area X irrespective of whether area X impinges on Australia's national interest. Surely that is the sophisticated and the civilised way of doing things. Yet we still cling to the old way. 
What I am trying to say can be put another way. If I am correct in suggesting that we give our aid to benefit ourselves we fail to give aid to those areas of greatest need where it does not help us. I think there will be general agreement from the Liberal Party, the Country Party and the Labor Party that excessive population is one of the world's great problems. The United Nations has a development programme and has formed a body called the United Nations Fund for Population Activities which is designed to finance and subsidise family planning groups in underdeveloped countries. This in itself reflects the great need there is to somehow stop the population explosion, put a blanket over it or slow down the level of population in underdeveloped countries so that the ever widening gap between the developed countries and the undeveloped countries can be bridged. 
The United Nations Fund for Population Activities became fully operational in 1970. The Australian Government has been lamentable in its complete neglect and rejection of this body. We have given nothing to it. We stand out virtually like a sore thumb among the developed countries of the world in this respect. A target figure of $15m was first set out for this body. The figure was revised in 1971 and became $25m. The Government of the United States has made a contribution of $12.5m. Countries which have contributed to this body include Denmark, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, Finland, India, Morocco, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Singapore, the United Kingdom and so on. I could give an ever increasing list of developed and underdeveloped countries that have made a contribution to this all-important fund which operates in a field where many people think the real solution to the problem lies. Yet Australia does nothing. I am suggesting that the reason Australia does nothing is because no immediate return to Australia is seen. 
That must be right. 
Well, the honourable member is wrong. This shortsighted Liberal-Country Party coalition Government can see no mileage in it for itself, so it gives nothing at all. 
Let me finish on this note: The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  quoted with approval the suggestion that  some  body like the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation be set up to co-ordinate this sort of thing and speak with the other nations that have statutory bodies such as the British, the Canadians and the Americans and to work through the United Nations. We have nothing like that. Our Government refuses to have anything to do with such a proposition. The only party which has anything to say on this subject is the Australian Labor Party. It is a firm plank in its policy to do just that very thing - to reorganise the administration and to establish a mutual co-operation agency. I would like to finish my speech with a quote from  Mr Robert  McNamara, who is well known as an ex-Defense Secretary of the United States and who is now a  Chairman  of the World Bank. He said: 

 - Mr Speaker, may I bring it to a conclusion? 
There are many things that one could say and one would like to say about the estimates for the Department of the Interior as they relate to Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory. The time allotted of 10 minutes does not permit adequate discussion of all matters, but certain matters stand out. One matter of which the  Minister for  the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  is aware is the disaster - if I may call it that - that has occurred in land prices in Canberra in recent years. Another matter is the great shortage of housing here that is reflected in the increase in the waiting period by three or four months in the last 12 months and the increased number on the waiting list for government houses. The number has risen from 5,200 to over 7,000. As my time is limited, with the leave of the Minister for the Interior, who is at the table, 1 would like to shortcut the debating process a little. Many of my views on the land situation are contained in the editorial that appeared in this morning's issue of the Canberra Times'. It summed up the situation at least as well as I can. 1 ask the Minister for leave to have the editorial incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
I am indebted to the Minister. I wish now to raise a miscellany of unrelated matters that I think call out for attention in the Australian Capital Territory. The first matter is the almost appalling features that are inherent in the Minister's answer to my question on notice No. 6162, a matter that I tried to raise  at  question time this morning. The Minister will recall that I asked him to describe the system used by the Government to auction government land in Canberra. Two firms of auctioneers are employed, but I did not specify 2 firms. I did not know what the system is. I did not know whether it is a regular arrangement. In what I call the appalling answer that came back we are asked to believe that the 2 firms concerned, which exist for the purpose of making a profit for their directors and shareholders, do this work for nothing. We are told that they do it on an honorary basis and presumably there is no contract at all with the Commonwealth. Yet they are paid a flat rate for what are called expenses. 
To have a flat rate equated with expenses is inconsistent in itself because expenses vary. One thinks of expenses as covering overnight accommodation, the hiring of halls, newspaper advertisements telephone charges and so on. They vary, and to have a flat rate is inconsistent with covering expenses which vary from time to time. If the Minister in his answer is trying to suggest that in some way the auctioneers are reimbursed for fees they would have earned if they had been spending their time doing ordinary auctioneering or real estate work somewhere else, it is not correct to call the payment expenses. If I as a barrister went somewhere and said that I would work for nothing if my expenses were paid, I would expect to be reimbursed for my overnight accommodation, telephone charges, travelling costs and so on. If I said that I could earn $100 or $1,000 a day doing something else, and I wanted to be paid that amount I would be asking for a fee, and it would be sophistry to call the payment expenses. 
There are some other very unsavoury features of the system. Does the Minister know that the 2 firms involved include their understanding - I use the Minister's word given to me in his answer - in their assessment of their own goodwill? If that is so, what value do they place on the understanding that presumably gives them no reward? There is something terribly strange about that. Does the Minister know that the leading director of one of the 2 firms is  president  of the local branch or section of the Liberal Party? If appearances mean anything, I suggest that appearances of that sort have to be avoided because they give rise to all sorts of unpleasant - and sometimes proper - inferences. 
Last year in Canberra only 10 or 11 auctions of government land were held, at a flat rate of $900 a day. The hire charge of the Albert Hall, the most outstanding expense - it is only about $50 or $60 a day anyway - is paid by the Department of Interior and not by the auctioneers. The costs of advertising in the Canberra Times' and other newspapers are paid not by the auctioneers but by the Department. What is left that can be called expenses? What, for example, has caused increases in the flat rate of payment which is so inconsistent with the idea of expenses? In 1963 the flat rate rose from $200 a day to $600 a day. It then varied between $500 and $600 a day depending on whether the land auctioned was for residential or commercial use. Why would the expenses differ? The flat rate was then raised to $900, the going rate. In the last 12 months about $20,000 has been paid to these 2 firms in the circumstances I have described. I put it to the Minister that this calls for a serious explanation which should be forthcoming when he replies in this debate. 
In the short time left to me I would like to raise some other unrelated matters. In Canberra a Moneylenders Ordinance operates, the existence of which is not widely known even amongst lawyers. One reason that it is not widely known is that proceedings under the ordinance are required to be held in camera, in secret, by the Supreme Court. This is a departure from every principle of justice with which we are familiar. The ordinance provides that proceedings will be held in camera unless a court decides otherwise. Judges have ruled that it is necessary, to avoid incamera proceedings, to show something special about a case, something other than it is a moneylending application. In order to open up a court it is not enough to say that it is an application to prove excessive interest, or that the transaction is harsh and unconscionable, or that the circumstances are such that the court should give relief. 
Practising lawyers can tell the Minister that in many cases grave allegations have been proved against corporations that are operating here in Canberra as moneylending corporations and whose transactions were shown to be harsh and unconscionable. But the public has never been told about them because of the operation of the relevant section of the ordinance. I would like the Minister to take all the necessary steps to have that section repealed and taken out of the Moneylenders Ordinance. A similar position applies to another unrelated matter, the law that bans the advertising of contraceptives in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The case of L. W. Smith v. McErlane was decided by the High Court as long ago as 1962. It places people who are injured in Canberra, in workers' compensation situations, at a great disadvantage when compared with people who are injured in workers' compensation type situations elsewhere in Australia. Judges have protested about it. Magistrates have protested, as I have done, but the Government has done nothing to overcome the effects of that decision handed down by the High Court as long ago as 1962. lt is time that people in the Australian Capital Territory ceased to suffer from this type of discrimination. 
Another unrelated matter concerns discount stores. Why cannot a system be worked out that would allow Canberra to have the advantages of discount stores such as are enjoyed by people who live in Sydney and Melbourne? Such stores sell at prices 20 per cent to 30 per cent lower than those of ordinary retail outlets. Yet because of facts with which the Minister is familiar it seems certain that we are not to have in Canberra discount stores that can operate in the way that they traditionally operate. The principal obstacle is the insistence that there be an auction system of land which keeps land prices at a level beyond the normal reach of discount stores. 
I come to another unrelated matter in the field of workers' compensation. The Minister will recall the case of a man called Maljevic to which I referred in one of my questions on notice addressed to the Minister. He was injured and as a result became a paraplegic. That condition results from serious injury. He was awarded $90,000.  His  employer did not have the necessary insurance because of the failure of the Government to enact legislation making it compulsory for employers to have insurance of that magnitude, notwithstanding the fact that it exists in other parts of Australia. I am aware that legislation has been introduced to raise the level to $50,000, but in the case of Maljevic that would still leave a gap of $40,000.  Mr Maljevic  has been given employment by the firm concerned and that takes away some of the hardship but it does not alter the fact that this sort of case could recur at any time. A man can be seriously injured when employed by a company which is under-insured because of inadequate action by this Government. 
I turn now to consider factories and shops legislation. As long ago as 1970 I asked the Minister when he would introduce factories and shops legislation into the Australian Capital Territory. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I hope the House will forgive me if I reflect for a moment on the time when I was younger than 1 am now. Then if a proposition like this one had been put in a small country town it would have been welcomed with open arms. In a town like Dubbo in the late 1940s people would have welcomed developments like this which would bring prosperity and employment to the town. But times have changed. I do not know of any single body in the Australian Capital Territory that welcomes this proposition. This is Canberra in 1972. This project will involve an expenditure, as the Minister has said, in excess of $6m. It causes me considerable disquiet. I have had discussions with the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who is a member of the Public Works Committee. He is not happy about the proposition. 
It might be of some moment to remind the House that the only groups that saw fit to express their points of view - they were representatives of Canberra - opposed the proposal. The political parties that formed a view on it opposed it. The Australian Labor Party was one and the Australia Party was another. The Society for Social Responsibility in Science was another body which opposed it. There were others. The correspondence columns of the Canberra Times' were full of letters opposing the project. I cannot recall having read any letters in support of the proposition. The statutory body charged with the planning and construction of Canberra, the body that is often held up as the best example of planning and public enterprise of this nature in the whole of Australia, the National Capital Development Commission, opposed it strenuously and vigorously. Yet, the tower is to be, it would seem. What lessons can we draw from this? I suppose it tells us a lot about our political processes. 
*  Mr Kelty  - It tells us you were not there to give evidence. 
It tells us that. That is quite right. But members of my Party made representations and put my point of view, as you will recall. They were not accepted. What is the issue? I think one has to go back and think of that much hackneyed expression, 'the quality of life'. Canberra now has nearly 170,000 people. The latest figures indicate a growth rate - it can be called growth; increase is probably a better word - of something like 10.2 per cent. One cannot help but wonder: Where is it all leading? 
In recent reports of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory to this Parliament there has been an expression of concern about the way in which we are heading - the excessive amount of Canberra being put under bitumen, the excessive surrender to trends we cannot influence and pressures we cannot control, being a servant of the motor car instead of the motor car being our servant. When Burley Griffin proposed the plan of Canberra he saw it as a site nestling amongst hills with natural contours. The proposed structure will be paganlike. I could use other words, but perhaps I should not. I will have a paganlike quality. I am not trying to run down the pagans. They had qualities of their own which were desirable and good. The tower will dominate. It will have an aggression about it. It will be 641 feet high. That is 3 times as high as the present towers. It will be solid. Its base will exceed the base of this Parliament House. It will dominate the skyline of Canberra. The people who live here and drive around will not be able to escape its presence. 
I am not talking only about the people of Canberra, because Canberra belongs to the whole of the Australian nation. Over 1 million people come to Canberra each year. I suppose this thing proposed to be put on Black Mountain could be regarded by some as attractive. To others it will be offensive and repulsive. The Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council, the body set up to advise the Minister for the Interior, has not expressed a point of view on the project. The only proposition put before h was one of opposition. The Council never passed a resolution on the matter. Be that as it may, this thing is to be put up there. It will attract more and more tourists up that mountain, which now has something like 1,100 acres, I think, of virgin bush. 
Surely this project is the thin edge of the wedge. In the parklands of the big cities once one thing goes in, once one item of development enters, it is only a matter of time before somebody sees a need to complement it and the people going to service it need a certain facility. It is only a matter of time before the whole parkland has come and gone and a massive brick pile is left. I foresee the time when Black Mountain will be covered with red, blue or yellow tiled buildings. It may not be in my time, but there will be structures there in the next IS or 20 years and that beautiful skyline will be gone because this is the beginning. I do not know what to do about it. I am not going to vote for this proposition. But I do not know what one can do to stop it. 
I do not know whether I should accept the technical arguments because they have never been explained satisfactorily. I am not a member of the Public Works Committee. I am not critical of its work at all. I am sure its members are sincere, hardwork ing politicians who do their best. But my experience as a member of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory is that one is all too often dazzled with science. I think I speak for all members of the Committee. The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory comes into this matter in no small measure. The National Capital Development Commission said that it opposed the plan because of what it will do to the mountain and because of the number of people it will encourage to go to the top. Much of the argument is that the plan would lead to the eventual destruction of the mountain. It will lead to diseases in timber on the hills and disturb the fragile quality of the whole of the flora and fauna that exists there. A visual assault will take place. The Department of the Interior submitted to the Committee that it would not oppose the plan. It said it was not happy about it. This is the way I read its submission. I did not hear it, but I have read it several times. The Department had a total lack of enthusiasm for the proposition. It is as though we are all caught up in some inevitable spiral which cannot stop and cannot be slowed down. One cannot get off. 
The Department said that in attempting to prevent the destruction of Black Mountain controls would have to be imposed on the access road to the top. This is as I read the submission. Presumably that means a gate will be erected to stop motor cars going up the road. Nobody likes to be stopped from driving to the top of the mountain. Buses will go to the top. This may mean a change in the road plan of Canberra. It may mean parking facilities will have to be provided at the bottom. This relates to the criticism that the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory has expressed time and time again, that more and more of Canberra is being put under bitumen in the surrender to the motor car. The Committee will be preempted from expressing any decision if these road patterns are to be changed. Following the long established practice, road planning proposals should be referred to the Committee. What will we do? Will the Committee be treated as a rubber stamp, again, as has happened very often in the past. 
Yes, I agree. I will. 
Just a moment. Let me finish. Let us not play politics here, please. It is too serious for that. The Minister laughs. I am not trying to play politics and I would think that is pretty obvious. I am suggesting that there is something terribly wrong with our parliamentary procedures. The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory is charged with the responsibility of scrutinising and checking any changes in the road plan of Canberra. The Department of the Interior might come along and say to us, in reference from the Minister, in 6 months time or 5 years or one year's time: We want the Committee to change the road plan of Canberra because of the Black Mountain tower.' Suppose the Committee then said: 'We will not. We do not think the tower should ever have been put there.' It is too late. The tower will be up there. The sum of $7m will have been spent. The Committee then is required just to rubber stamp the proposal, as we were with the Russell Hill complex 3 or 4 months ago. We refused to do it because we saw what was coming. I am not attacking the Government on this. I am attacking the system that has arisen - the decline in the parliamentary process that has taken place over a long period of years. Committees are not being allowed to play their part. 
I heard the same view expressed the other day in regard to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. The view was in regard to the signing of agreements between Indonesia and Australia in regard to the continental shelf. The Committee was not consulted at all. It was just bypassed and ignored. This policy is followed all the way through. I suppose it is related also to the lack of representation here in the Australian Capital Territory. We have a population of 170,000 people. The only bodies in Canberra which express a point of view oppose the proposal. Their wishes are to be ignored. They are told: 'No, bad luck; there are greater values and greater priorities around. You will take it. Consider yourselves lucky.' As I see it, one cannot be enthusiastic about the proposition when one looks at it like that. One cannot be enthusiastic when one reads the submission of the Department of the Interior. One cannot be enthusiastic when one reads the opposition to it from the National Capital Development Commission, the most repu table body in the country in regard to this sort of thing. The NCDC opposes the proposition tooth and nail. If honourable members talked to the officers of the Commission as I have, they would find that the officers say, as was said to me the other day, that they will fight it to the end. However, there is not much they can do and not much that I can do. 
Evidence was given by the Society for Social Responsibility in Science. It is interesting to note that the Liberal Party, to which the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee belongs, did not express a point of view. As far as I know the Liberal Party of the Australian Capital Territory came along and said nothing. It did not even bother to concern itself with the problem. The Australia Party expressed a view, as did the Australian Labor Party. The only other political party that exists in Canberra is the Australian Democratic Labor Party and as far as I know that Party had no point of view at all to express. There was no support for the proposal - -only opposition. 
The alternative to the proposal is that the unified single lattice work mast be left as it is, that the recording facilities and so on be removed from Black Mountain and be situated down in the city. The television side of the operations could be conducted in that way. I can see no objection to that. The Postmaster-General's Department's proposal is that the radio and telephonic facilities be put with the television facilities in a single solid structure which would be made to pay its way by the construction of a revolving restaurant which would encourage people to go up to the tower. But this structure - this pagan symbol, as I have called it, which stretches 641 feet into the skyline around Canberra - will dominate the landscape. 
What did the NCDC say about the construction of the tower? It said that the radio telephonic part of the solid structure should be put at Crace. I know that the PostmasterGeneral's Department said it could not be done and that Crace was not high enough. But I see from the submission put by the Society for Social Responsibility in Science that the PMG previously had put a different submission, that it could be done at Crace. Here, of course, I am in a weak position. 
Normally if one is playing politics one does not reveal a weak position. But I was there - I do not know. But if the PMG on an earlier occasion said that there was nothing wrong with the Crace proposition from the point of view of the radio telephonic work and that these facilities could have been constructed at Crace, leaving the single lattice work tower on Black Mountain, the visual assault would not have to take place and the pagan symbol would not have to be erected. Crace could have had a smaller tower, which would not have had the same notoriety as the Black Mountain proposition. If this were done we would not have a tower on Black Mountain which would dominate even Parliament House. People who drive around the city and who live in this valley would not continually be reminded of its presence. 
Perhaps the  Chairman  of the Committee, whom I see is making notes and who may well say a few words, might have the answer to this. All I can say is that even if there is an answer it is an unhappy state of affairs, whichever way we look at it. 
 Yes. I wish to support the motion. With respect to the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp),  the assurances he gave are irrelevant because they do not go to this issue at all. If proof were needed that the Government has something terrible to hide- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
 I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Blaxland again moving the motion in relation to dealings between the Government and Jetair Australia Ltd on the question of the acquisition of 2 Viscount aircraft, and his being heard. 
If proof were needed that something is very wrong in the Government's house over this issue of the relationship between the Government and Jetair Australia Ltd it could be found in a number of places. It could be found in the motion moved by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  - an almost unprecedented motion - that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  be no longer heard. No-one is more-- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory be not further heard. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
On how many occasions in each year since the National Capital Development Commission was formed in 1957 has the Commission advised the Minister of decisions of the Commission respecting matters of policy as required by section 12(1) of the National Capital Development Commission Act. 
On what subject matters were the decisions made. 
Have there ever been any differences of opinion between the Minister and the Commission as envisaged in section 12 (2) of the Act. 
If so, on what subject matters did these differences of opinion occur and how many have occurred since 1957. 
Have there been any occasions when there have been differences of opinion where the Minister and the Commission have been unable to reach agreement. 
If so, what were these occasions by reference to subject matter. 
Have there been any occasions when the Governor-General has had to determine the policy to be adopted by the Commission as envisaged by section 12 (3) of the Act. 
If so, what were these occasions by reference to subject matter. 
The greatest compliment I can pay the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  is that he managed to say some of the things he said and keep a straight face. This is a Bill to set up something that could be called NURDA - a national urban and regional development authority. One need not take very much time describing it. The honourable member for Denison said he had been asked by the Government Whip not to spend too much time speaking to the Bill in view of other business that is before the House. So have I. Normally I would not accede to a request of that sort unless I thought there was reasonable reason for it. There is a reasonable reason tonight and the remarks that I want to make about this Bill can be put very briefly. It is a joke, or if it is not a joke, it is a fraud. Let me explain why. Having an interest in this subject I asked the Legislative Reference Service of the Parliamentary Library on 21st December 1971 to give me: 'The Federal Government policy, or statements of policy, on decentralisation for the last 10 years'. They gave me a lot of material from Hansard and Press statements. Refreshing my memory on them before I came into the House a few moments ago I found that these references there are mostly questions and challenges from the Labor Party to Government members over their failure to do anything about this terribly important question. There is no initiative from the Government side at all. This is what emerges from an examination of those documents. I think this is probably common knowledge. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is associated with these thoughts and ideas, as is the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  They have made it a crusade to draw attention to the problems of overcrowding and pollution of cities and the need to adhere not to a payment of lip service to something called decentralisation but to put forward a new concept altogether - a new concept that is called regional development. One can search the newspapers and Hansard for years and years but one will find no acknowledgement of the existence of this problem from Government sources at all until now. As so often happens every 3 years, 3, 4 or 5 weeks before an election something comes up. Usually it is plagiarism, usually a theft from policy matters that have been put forward by the Opposition Party - the Australian Labor Party. Here it is again. One sees it in regard to the proposition over child care centres and one sees it here again in the proposition for the establishment of a national urban and regional development authority. 
Before I say a few words about the Bill - the joke, the fraud - it would not be a waste of time for us to remind ourselves of what the Opposition's amendment seeks to do. The amendment asks that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted. We do not oppose the Bill in the strict sense because we recognise that the problem is terribly serious. But our amendment asks that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted because in its printed form it seeks to create a mere investigating and advisory body which will have no authority to solve any of the problems that call out for solutions. This is exactly what emerges out of these 4 pages of nonsense. The Bill calls the body which it seeks to set up an 'authority'. That makes a mockery of the English language. It has no authority. It has one man - a very eminent man-  Sir John  Overall. So far as I understand he has not even accepted the job yet.  Sir John  Overall has performed fine service in his capacity as the leader of the National Capital Development Commission here in Canberra. But the Government has given him a new title on the eve of his retirement. As I understand it,  Sir John  has announced his intention to go into private consulting work towards the middle of next year. The Government has said to him, presumably through these 4 pages - these 4 useless worthless pages: We would like you now to take this little job for us. Accept this position'. But what is he asked to do? I would like to read to honourable members the garbage that follows in the Bill. He will be made a body corporate like a bishop sole. He will have a common seal. He may acquire and dispose of real and personal property. He can sue and be sued in his corporate name. But the authority will be him. One gentleman - a very eminent gentleman. He can be assisted by a  deputy  commissioner who is to be appointed by the Governor-General. The  deputy  commissioner will only give advice and assistance to the commissioner. Bear in mind that this is the solution that the Government offers to this most pressing of problems so far as Australia is concerned. It has offered the job of Commissioner to a very eminent gentleman who has done a fine job here in Canberra. It has asked him to tell the Government what it should do. The Government does not know itself; it has never thought about the problem. I say that the thing is either a joke or a fraud. 
When one looks at the formal statements one would expect to find in a Bill setting up a proper authority, things like its accountability and a description of its duties. But what do we find? We find that the authority is powerless; that it is nothing. It has power just to investigate. The Bill appoints one man to go away and think in the way that the Prime Minister tells him to think and on the subjects that the Prime Minister tells him to think on, and then report to the Government. This is the Prime Minister - the senior Minister of a government that is notorious for its neglect of this subject, which it resurrects now. The Government has stolen the Labor Party's policy on this subject. I suppose that one cannot complain about that if only it would steal it properly, if only it would understand the problem. But the Government does not even do that. I suppose the principal criticism of the haste that can be extracted from the way in which the Authority is to be set up can be seen by looking at, say, clause 8 of the Bill, which deals with such a mundane matter as salaries. One would have thought if this matter had been in the melting pot, if it had been under serious consideration, surely the Government would have decided how much it was going to pay  Sir John 
Overall, if he accepts the job, and how much it will pay the deputy commissioner. Not so. Let me read out clause 8. It states:  (1.) The Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner shall be paid remuneration at such rate, and an annual allowance at such rate (if any), as the Parliament fixes-- 
All right, this is the Parliament. We are here. Put it to us. Give us a figure. Let us discuss it. But the Government does not know yet. It is in such a hurry to rush this through before the election. The clause continues:  but, until the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-four- 
As I understand from the newspaper reports,  Sir John  Overall will have retired and gone into private business at that stage -  the rate of that remuneration and the rate (if any) of that allowance shall be as prescribed. 
That means, presumably, what you think up when you have sat down and worked it out for yourselves. So what the Government is saying is in effect: 'We will pay this gentleman - this very eminent gentleman - and we will presumably pay the man who is going to help them, insofar as he needs help'. This one person, who will be called an Authority and who will be helped by a man who is not an authority, will be paid what Parliament decides. The Government cannot put a figure before Parliament now. It will in the solitude of its offices think up a figure which it is not prepared to tell us yet because it does not know what it is. That tells us a lot about this Bill, this ill thought out proposition which has been drafted with indecent haste. It is a flattery to call it a proposition. 
I suppose what the Government hopes to achieve by it is to fool the people so that it can say: 'We are concerned about this problem. Do not think it is only the Labor Party. We have our 4 pieces of paper and we will have a man tell us what to do. We do not have to do what he tells us should be done but we think sufficiently seriously of the problem to appoint to this position a man who is about to retire and who has previously done a good job*. Incidentally, he was in a field of endeavour which is altogether different from that concerned in this Bill because the planning and construction of Canberra through the National Capital Development Commission is quite a different proposition to finding a solution to the problems of overcrowding in Sydney and deciding where regional development should take place, where new cities should go, whether they should go to the coast or inland or whether land should be acquired. With great respect to the Government, though perhaps I should have said 'with little respect to the Government', and with no disrespect to  Sir John  or any reflection on his qualifications or experience for this sort of work, if one were thinking seriously of a proper solution one would create a proper authority to look into the problem. One would also expect that a government would have policies on the subject, as the Labor Party has had on this subject for many years. I have touched on that matter already. 
This Authority - it is not an authority, it is one man - will be told to investigate matters by a Prime Minister who is not interested in the subject. The man called an Authority, which he is not, will report to the man who does not want to receive a report because he is not interested in the subject except in perhaps fooling a few people into voting for the Government at the forthcoming election. That is about all I want to say on the subject except to remind the House and particularly honourable members opposite, that there would be few matters in Australia which have attracted more attention in recent years than regional development and the need for new cities. It is called the problem  o'.  the environment or the problem of the cities. We have task forces on urban land development. I have here a decentralisation report of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures. The point that emerges from a consideration of the problem is that here is a government which is bankrupt of thoughts of its own. It was not even aware of the problem until it got the idea that the Labor Party was gaining electoral support from its espousal of the solution to the problem. So the Government comes in late and offers us these 4 miserable pieces of paper. I support the amendment. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Is he able to state the average sum likely to be in the trust accounts of real estate agents in the Australian Capital Territory, by reference to minimum or maximum deposit, at any one time during a year. 
Is this money used by the banks for their own banking purposes without payment of interest. 
If so, how much income would likelybe produced if the banks were required to pay interest on these deposits as in the case of solicitors' trust accounts. 
Has consideration been given to having the banks pay interest on these deposits so that the income produced could be used for socially desirable purposes. 
If the information sought is not readily available to his Department, will he take steps to obtain it 
I  am indebted to the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  for his kind remarks. The principal thought that emerges from the Bill as it has been presented to the House by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is that it does not go far enough. It accepts the traditional concept of workers compensation. It is worthwhile in the  5  minutes that have been graciously allowed to me by the Leader of the House- 
It has been put to me that I may pay you that compliment. It is worth reflecting on how we compensate people in our society. If you fall off a ladder while painting your own house you will receive nothing. The best you can hope for is some incidental benefit pursuant to our rundown system of social services. If you are injured on your way to work, coming home from work or at work you will receive the benefits that the Minister seeks to confer on you pursuant to this piece of legislation. They are at a higher scale and a higher standard. If in a lottery-like way - that is what it comes to - you can establish something that the law calls negligence, against some person you will be compensated at a much higher scale. There are  3  ascending scales at which people can receive benefits or compensation if they receive injuries. Those scales are unrelated to anything that is rational or logical in any modern system of government or society. 
What is the difference if you are on your way to work or coming home from work that would entitle you to a higher scale of reward than if you are at home mowing your lawn or painting your house? What difference does it make, given our system of compulsory third party insurance, that you can point to someone's negligence, which is usually a legal fiction, and receive full compensation? What benefit comes to any community when you have a system whereby insurance companies jostle each other to force one claimant out of one category and into another so that he makes his claim against one insurance company and not another or against one insurance fund and not another insurance fund, or when one plaintiff tries to make his claim against a workers compensation fund instead of, say. a negligence fund and then is driven back to social services? 
The litigation and the inefficiency in the whole system are notorious. Heaven knows what it costs the Australian community in lost effort. Doctors who waste time in courts, in workers compensation tribunals, and lawyers who waste their time there add enormously to the. significance of the social cost. This Bill is paying lip service to an ideal that was a progressive measure in the 19th century. Today it is out of date. Even if one looks at workers compensation in the context of what it is, one sees a distrust of human beings. When he made his second reading speech the Minister used quite extravagant language. He said how happy he was. He talked about great improvements and about the Government breaking entirely new ground. It is just nonsense, and it is hypocritical in the language which was used. What has to be accepted as flowing from it is that the Government refuses to compensate people for what they have lost. 
There is a case that the Minister may be aware of; it is called Smith v. McErlane. It was decided in the High Court of Australia in about 1962. It was not a unanimous decision of that Court. There were  3  judges in favour of the decision and one dissenting judgment but that decision said that when you consider what a man has lost and you compare his post-accident earnings with his pre-accident earnings you take into account what he earns by way of overtime afterwards and discount it by what he earned before. So that if he had a salary or a wage rate of say$70 a week before the accident and was earning $30 overtime - taking home $100  -  and after the accident he dropped back because of his partial incapacity to $50 a week but gets $20 a week in overtime, making a total of $70, he is $30 a week worse off. Under the workers' compensation laws which we have he gets nothing even though he has lost $30 a week. That much criticised principle is perpetuated in this legislation. The Minister seems to see nothing wrong with it. In fact he knows that it exists because he referred to it in his second reading speech. But all he said was: 'We are lifting the pay out rate a little and we hope that it will not encourage people to stay off work sick when they are not sick'. 
But implicit in what he said is that he does not trust employees whether they be employees of the Commonwealth or not, notwithstanding the language that he used, because he is not prepared to grant them full compensation as has been said by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to be the policy of the Australian Labor Party. He is not prepared to do that. He has said in some way: 'You cannot trust them.' A person may have lost an arm or a leg or an eye but according to the Minister you cannot trust him to stay off work because he may want to be a malingerer. I suppose that there is something in Liberal Party thinking which produces that kind of result but it is a kind of thinking, I would suggest that is completely rejected on this side of the House. We accept that if a man is injured and incapacitated or if a woman is injured and incapacitated that person should be adequately and properly compensated for the loss and should not have to depend upon a lottery-like system like being able to bring themselves within the category of workers' compensation, inadequate as it is, or the negligence category lottery-like as it is. 
One could go on but those are the principal objections I make to this Bill. It reproduces a pattern that we have become familiar with. It does not deserve the extravagant language used by the Minister. It needs a lot of amendments to bring it up to date even within the framework and context of the workers' compensation legislation. But surely we have reached the stage in this country where we could move beyond the idea of workers' compensation and start to think about compensating all Australian citizens when they are injured. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
 I will not take up much time of the House with the few remarks I wish to make, but I am indebted to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the  Deputy  Government Whip for giving me this time. The consequences of the proposals outlined by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  of course are not confined only to the people of the Northern Territory. The proposals relating to the Northern Territory, as everybody has said, will be extremely welcome. I hasten to add my support to the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Adelaide. There is a similarity between the problems of the people of the Australian Capital Territory and those of the Northern Territory notwithstanding the very great differences that exist between the 2 Territories. The Northern Territory's geography is essentially different from the geography of the Australian Capital Territory and it poses different problems. Features of the Northern Territory include its remoteness and the concentration of population in places such as Alice Springs, Darwin, Gove and so on. 
It seems that pursuant to Government policy a certain amount of very limited progress has been made towards territorial government in the Northern Territory which the Government has denied the people of the Australian Capital Territory. A form of local government exists in the Northern Territory. It has an unnecessarily very restricted Legislative Council and, like the Australian Capital Territory, it has very restricted representation in this Parliament. In the Australian Capital Territory we do not have even the advantages that are enjoyed by the people of the Northern Territory. We have twice the population of the Northern Territory. We have about 170,000 people here now, or so close to it that it does not matter. The population is increasing by about 10 per cent per annum. In the short time since the last election in 1969 something like 40,000 people have come to live in the Australian Capital Territory. Yet we have a form of local representation confined to a body called the Advisory Council which has no power. The substance of this Council has remained unaltered for many years as a result of deliberate Government policy. I know that the Minister refers more and more matters to it for consideration, but this is not enough. Those men on the Advisory Council who represent the people of Canberra are free to give only advice on matters that arise. They have no power. 
With the greatest of respect to the people of the Northern Territory, who are of course good people and have problems of their own, I think it could be fairly said that the people of the Australian Capital Territory are a very politically conscious people. They are very much aware of the extent to which they are deprived of political rights. One only has to see the correspondence column in the 'Canberra Times' and hear the comments and discussions of the Advisory Council and of other bodies and one only has to see the size of public meetings on subjects as diverse as education and the ordinance relating to dogs or whatever it happens to be, to get a feeling of how much the people of the city of Canberra feel deprived of any say in their affairs. 
I have listened with great interest to the various speakers who have preceded me in this debate. Let me say that I am very glad to see my friend, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  come into the House. I thought he was to be the  speaker  ahead of me. The reason I am glad is that, although the honourable member for Moreton sits on the opposite side of the House, I will be directing some of my remarks to him because I believe that he is one of the few members on the Government benches who will understand them. 
Be that as it may. I want to put to the House a different point of view from the ones that have already been put forward. I suggest that this Government does not know what it is doing. There is an old saying that those whom the gods would destroy they first make mad. This piece of legislation is the means and is delightful. If one looks at it, one sees it introduced by a government that does not really have its heart in it. This was apparent from the remarks of the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes).  The Government does not really want to do it. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has made that abundantly clear over the period of time that he has been the Prime Minister.' But circumstances have overtaken the Gov!ernment - the pressure of events, Australian Labor Party demands, the Press and it is now on the eve of an election - so the Government has decided to whip something through.  j 
If one were cynical, if one wanted to be malicious or even one merely wanted to say 'When we on the Labor side win at the end of the year, we will take advantage of this legislation', my God, what one could do with this Bill. The Government does not know what it has done by introducing it. It has created a weapon in the language that it has used in its haste and in its ill thought-out efforts to satisfy some public opinion that the Government thinks is getting away from it. It has given a weapon to a future government which, if it chose to use it, could really use teeth in the solution of this problem. The Labor Party could thank the Government if the Bill goes through the Senate, because the Government has the numbers there now and the Labor Party might not have them next year. We could, if we wanted to make use of the legislation in this form, be eternally grateful to the Government. 
Let me tell honourable members what I have in mind. The Government proposes to give power to a Minister. It has chosen not to give that power to an independent tribunal, which is what a Labor government would do. But, before I go on to tell honourable members how the Government has given to a Minister this subjective power which, although the Government's Ministers do not want to use it and will not use it - it is nice to frighten honourable members opposite and it is noticeable there is a deathly silence over the House - our Ministers could use, let me refer honourable members to some of the points that emerge from the haste which has been used in framing this legislation. Some of these points have already been touched upon, but there is plenty of time. I have 15 minutes remaining to me. The Government has, for example, betrayed most of the principles of law-making in introducing this legislation. The Government introduced it into the House, where it can be debated as it is being debated now. Its repeal also should be the subject of debate in this House. The Government has betrayed that principle. It will allow a Minister secretly, by proclamation, to repeal the legislation. 
I know that some of my colleagues have said that that indicates the Government's cynicism. It tells the people of Australia - those who are listening and those who are prepared to read about it - how lacking in sincerity the Government is. The Government has even put in a date for the Bill's automatic repeal if its Minister does not do it secretly. But the best proof of the Government's haste is the example that was referred to by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  I do not want to be legalistic about this, but any lawyer reading this Bill would laughhis head off. I have already had  2  solicitors in this town come to me. They are acting for business clients who are concerned about the way in which the Government has created this power. Concern has been expressed on behalf of business corporations. The honourable member for Cunningham mentioned that the Bill contains some definitions clauses. So be it; they are simple, innocuous definitions clauses. I am talking now to the honourable member for Moreton who, I am sure, will follow what I am saying. 
Clause  5  says that a reference to a company includes  2  types of trading corporations. It seems to be self-contained. If a third example was wanted, it would be put in the clause and there would be (a), (b) and (c). But there is no (c). That is clause  5.  If we go back and look at clause 3 we find - one cannot help smiling - that it reads: 
Without prejudice to its effect apart from this section, this Act also has, by force of this section, the effect it would have if the following word and paragraph were added at the end of section 5: ; or (c) is the holding company of a body corporate of a kind referred to in either of the last two preceding paragraphs.'. 
In clause 3 the Government says: 'When you get to clause 5, add this bit to it'. It is as though a first draft of this piece of legislation was sent to the Government Printer and part of it was left out and it then went away somewhere and came back and the Government said: 'Oh, what will we do? Tear off the front page and put in a new front page'. This is how it could have been done. That is one possible explanation. I assure honourable members that that clause will make any lawyer in the country laugh his fool head off when he reads it. 
Let us look further at the substance of this matter and come back to what I said that the Government does not know what it is doing if it were not for the responsibility of the Australian Labor Party. The Government will give power to the Minister in what lawyers call the subjective form. The power can be exercised secretary. If the Minister is satisfied or if he believes or dreams or thinks or imagines that a certain situation exists, he can give certain orders to a company or a person - that could be anyone; you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  or myself or a corporation - to do certain things. He could say: 'Go and jump over the fence 20 times a day'. The Minister could make an outrageous order. It would be done in secret because he would be acting on the advice of officers. The Prime Minister said that some senior officer somewhere - we do not know who he will be - will, in reality, make these orders. There would be no realistic way in the world that anyone could challenge such an order in a court. 
It is not my role here to defend overseas corporations, but I suppose it could and should be said that they have rights, as do Australian corporations. Yet the Government is giving power to a Minister - a person acting on the advice of some anonymous public servant somewhere, who may or may not be good at his job - to say: Make this order. Go and tell the corporation to do that or not to do something. Disregard that offer. Do not let them accept that offer of takeover. Cancel that share transfer'. The Government proposes to give them no resort of appeal to a court. There is no way that one could take such an order to court because clauses 13 and 14 are in the subjective form. Only the Minister can do that. 
Then, when the Government starts talking about courts in clause IS, it is all one way. It will let the Minister take a corporation, a person or an individual to court if the Minister is not happy that the order is being obeyed or that the sanction - the penalty - of $200 a day is not serving its purpose. Only the Minister can take the person to the court; the person cannot get there himself. There is no right of appeal for the corporation or the person. I repeat that the Government does not know what it is doing and what will happen when this legislation goes through. It is outrageous. It would be funny if one was prepared to be jocular about this sort of legislation. The reason the Minister might want to take the person to court is that by doing so he then can get the court's status and prestige behind the order, and the penalty jumps from $200 a day to $1,000 a day, and the the contempt provisions come in. I do not know whether honourable members know what contempt means. There is little procedure to regulate it. There is no limit to the punishment that can be imposed for it. The judge if he is so minded can say: 'A week in gaol; 10 years in gaol. Stay there until I change my mind. Go away and rot'. I have known cases, and so has the honourable member for Moreton, in which that was done. That is the power to punish for contempt. That is what the Government has done by writing this provision into the Bill. 
The Bill makes provision for a Minister to give a certificate. As I understand the explanatory memorandum which accompanied the Bill, the reason for the certificate is in case the Minister overlooks something else, or makes an order in a case in which he should not have made an order or makes a mistake. The certificate will give protection to a certain transaction. Again, I suppose this is an example of the Government's haste. Let me take the House finally to clause 20. I do not want to sound too much the lawyer, but there is a reality of harshness and injustice behind all the experiences that lawyers have in the courts. Clause 20 provides in the subjective form that where the Minister thinks, believe, dreams or imagines that there is someone somewhere who is capable of giving information or producing documents he can cause what lawyers call a subpoena to issue to him, and the person concerned has to come along trotting. He may be an officer of a small company, a big company, an overseas company or an Australian company. To whom does he go? He does not go to a court. He does not knock on the door of a court with a lawyer to assist him and guide him. He would not even know how to answer the notice served on him. 
Suppose that be wanted to argue that  tie  was not a person capable of knowing. How would he move to set aside the summons or the subpoena? That can be done in a court. There are recognised procedures for doing it. But under this legislation there would be no way of doing it. The legislation is in the subjective form. If he does not furnish the information which the Minister thinks he should have furnished, he is guilty of a crime under this legislation. In this sense the Minister means some anonymous public servant somewhere - a good man or a bad man, a competent man or an incompetent man. It reminds one of Kafka. The person summoned could be a little man or a big man, a powerful man or a weak man. It really adds up to this: The Government has created something which could be called a veil. It is not a corporate veil but a ministerial veil which the people the Government is traditionally supposed to represent - the wealthy, the corporations, the companies of Australia - will not be able to go behind. They will probe that veil in vain. They will employ their lawyers and they will not get anywhere because the legislation is all in that subjective form. The Government has created a ministerial veil and it has given the Minister the power to say: 'Off with your corporate head' or 'On with your corporate head'. If it were not for the responsibility of the Australian Labor Party, another government could come to power in this country and could have a ball' with this legislation. It would serve the Government right. The only thing that will stop it happening is the Australian Labor Party which believes that a fair go should be given to Australians in the determination and the solution of this problem. There should be the independent body for which we have always argued - the secretariat - which would look at the problem and recommend safeguards and arrive at a solution to the problem, not this crude, hasty attempt to appease what the Government thinks is public opinion running against it. I repeat that the Government does not know what it has done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2.  (1.) This Act shall come into operation on the seventh day after the day on which it receives the Royal Assent.  (2.)  This Act shall cease to be in operation on the expiration of - 
the thirty-first day of December, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-three; or 
if an earlier date is fixed by Proclamation - that earlier date, and shall thereupon be deemed to havebeen repealed by an Act other than this Act. 
lt is a matter for the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  of course. He bears the responsibility for the Bill. But I would have thought, with respect, that it was equally severable as paragraph (c) of clause 5. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4.  (2.) For the purposes of this Act - 
a reference to a share in a company to which this Act applies or in a corporation other than such a company shall be read as a reference to a share in the capital of the company or of the corporation, as the case may be; 
a reference to a share in a company to which this Act applies or in a corporation other than such a company shall be read as including a reference to slock into which a share has been converted; and 
a person shall be taken to bc the beneficial owner of shares if, and only if, those shareas are held in any manner in whole or in part for the use or benefit of the person. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Do Public Service Board records indicate a higher instance of invalidity retirement cases amongst officers of the Public Service in Canberra than throughout the rest of Australia. 
If so, have any surveys been conducted to determine the reasons for the high instance of retirement by invalidity that exists in the Australian Capital Territory and what do these surveys reveal. 
Can he give the figures for invalidity retirement in each of the last 5 years for each Department and each Division in a Department in (a) the Australian Capital Territory and (b) the States showing whether the services of a person were terminated because of (i) death, (ii) invalidity, (iii) psychiatric reasons and mental decline, (iv) coronary reasons and (v) other reasons. 
ls there any evidence available to indicate support for Commonwealth public servants being given optional retirement at age 55; if so, what is this evidence. 
Is there any evidence to suggest tension or pressure resulting from lack of promotion opportunities after reaching a certain age and position in the Service and, thus, depression produced by this tension or pressure. 
Can he say which State Public Services permit optional retirement at age 55. _ (7) Can he supply the percentage of State Public Servants, working in systems that permit optional retirement at age 55, who take advantage of the option. 
 I would like to say a few words on the subject of this legislation. Firstly, I would like to echo the expressions of concern that have been uttered by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  who has by his consistent efforts over many years tried to remind the Government of its duty to the Australian public in the field of insurance law. I think it is fair to say that Great Britain has had legislation of this kind since about 1877. Certainly there was a consolidated Act in about 1909. Britain had no more difficulties in producing that sort of legislation as a solution to the problems than we have. It is worth saying because it is a reminder to the Australian people of the sloth, the inertia, the apathy and the couldn't care less attitude of this Government to issues of this sort. Insurance companies come and go. They fail and the policy holder is left high and dry to carry the burden. On the eve of the election the Government says: 'This is what we propose to do. We are a bit too busy to do it now. It is a bit too hard for us.' It brings legislation into the Parliament in the hope that it will fool the people and does not proceed with it. That is what it really boils down to; so I echo what the honourable member for Hawker said. 
But even within its limited framework, this legislation it does not go far enough. It is restricted to the solvency problem, the security problem of insurance companies. Surely it is time that the problem was taken further. It is a myth, a fiction, to say that there is freedom of contract between the person who fills out a proposal form for the purpose of taking out insurance and the insurance company. This has been stated by academics and by writers on the subject for many years but apparently this Government does not know about it. Even the insurance company representative who fills in the proposal form is deemed by fiction to be the person's representative and not the company's representative. From the use of this standard form which the companies employ and which does not give equality of bargaining power between the company and the individual all sorts of unfair situations result. 
Anyone who has had experience of the courts will know that if there is a dispute between an insurance company and a policy holder the policy holder is required virtually by what is called a Scot and Avery clause to submit the matter to arbitration first. He cannot get to the courts because he has to go through arbitration. He is required to do so and this is insisted upon by the company. This causes delay and puts him to expense. AH too often, in fact frequently, he is denied this opportunity because he cannot really afford to go through the arbitration process. Surely it is time that we gave serious consideration to making the Scot and Avery clause invalid and not permissible to be put into insurance policies. 1 also want to echo what the honourable member for Hawker touched on when he said that some minimum standard terms should be written into all policies to take account of the fact that at the moment they are unfair. There should be a schedule which ensures that in every policy there are minimum terms which ensure fairness between the policy holder and the company and neither can contract out of them. For example, if a person drives a vehicle that is so-called unroadworthy he can often be denied his right to insurance moneys as a result of an accident claim. I know of cases where a car said to have had smooth tyres was involved in an accident which took place during dry weather and although the existence, of the smooth tyres had nothing whatever to do with the accident the insurance company said: 'Ah, ha - smooth tyres.' Although the smooth tyres had nothing to do with the cause of the accident because the vehicle had been run into by another car, the. company said: We will deny liability.' It paid nothing. That sort of situation should not be permitted. Another example that one could give is the case of a person involved in an accident and it may be said that although it was not his fault he was under the. influence of intoxicating liquor. I know it 
Is an emotional term but there are situations in which a driver under the influence of intoxicating liquor when driving a car can properly be the subject of action under the criminal law, even though he did not cause the accident the insurance company will repudiate liability. That sort of situation should not be permitted to exist. Cases involving unroadworthy vehicles and drivers under the influence of liquor should properly be a matter for the. criminal law. They should not be allowed to have a place so that insurance companies can repudiate liability when these things do not contribute to damage at all. 
One could go on and give plenty of excuses which are used by insurance companies. But the reality of it is this: If the Government suggests that there is a mutual meeting of minds between the person who fills in the proposal form and the insurance company, then I suggest that this theory went out virtually in the. 18th century. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Have any enquiries ever been held in the Australian Capital Territory pursuant to the provisions of the Enquiry Ordinance  1938. 
If so, when and on what subjects have these enquiries been held. 
If no enquires have been held, why does the Government continue to have the Ordinance as a law of the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the report on page 2 of the Weekly Review supplement to 
The New York Times of Sunday, 3rd September 1972, of the success of the Prices Commission of the United States of America in denying price increases for motor cars to General Motors and the Ford Motors Corporation. 
Has a Prices Commissioner ever been appointed in the Australian Capital Territory pursuant to the provisions of the Prices Regulation Ordinance 1949-1966; if not, why not. 
Has the Government ever attempted to make use of this Ordinance to control inflation in the Australian Capital Territory; if so, what are the details. 
If no attempts have been made to use the Ordinance, why has it not been repealed. 
In view of continuing inflation, will the Government take immediate steps to make use of the Ordinance and, in particular, appoint a Prices Commissioner. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What annual income is expected to be produced from the requirement in the Legal Practitioners' Ordinance 1972 of the Australian Capital Territory that banks pay interest on half the minimum deposit held by them in solicitors' trust accounts. 
What is the rate of interest payable by the banks on these deposits. 
What sum is expected to be received during the first 12 months or any other completed period of operation of the legal aid scheme in the A.C.T. from contributions made by, persons seeking legal aid in the A.C.T. 
What is the estimated cost of operating the legal aid scheme of the A.C.T. during the first 12 months or any other completed period of. its operation. 
Why were the banks required to pay interest on only half and not the whole of the minimum deposit over a particular period. 
Why was the minimum deposit and not the average or mean or some other balance chosen. 
Is the Attorney-General able to state the sum available to the banks for their own banking purposes resulting from the fact that they only pay interest on half and not the whole of the minimum deposit held by them. 
If interest was paid by the banks on the whole of the minimum deposits held, would enough income be produced to enable legal aid to be extended by, way of either full or part indemnity to persons in need who are ordered to pay legal costs. 
 The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  made a speech that I think calls for a reply from me. I turned over in my mind whether it really did warrant a reply and I think that on balance it probably calls for some comments. The honourable member commenced by saying that he intended to make a very strong criticism of the Government over its handling of the Department of the Northern Territory but then he went on to congratulate the Government and me on many of the things that we have done already. The honourable member singled out the fact that we had based the Department up in the Northern Territory. I think that was the main point that he made, and he added that the man chosen as head of the Department would do an excellent job up there. 
The honourable member, said that he would do a good job, that  Mr Alan  O'Brien was well chosen. The honourable member said: 'I think he deserves support', and the honourable member has given him his support. I think we are on common, ground there. If one looks for this very strong criticism, it seems to be that we have chosen to direct a degree of attention to the Northern Territory which the previous Government never did. In other words, we have said: There are areas of concern up there, such as Aborigines, northern development, minerals and energy, and things of this sort that need to be singled out for special attention.' We have created special departments to deal with these matters. The honourable member wants to go back to the old days when everything was bundled together and left to take care of itself. I suppose it is sometimes called fragmentation. The honourable member should think about what we have done in the Northern Territory already. We have given an encouragement to the Legislative Council about which surely the honourable member must know. 
 We have given an encouragement to the Legislative Council. 
The honourable member said that I had not had discussions with it. 
The honourable member did. I have made 2 trips to the Northern Territory, one of a week's duration and the other of half a week's duration. 1 do not know how often previous Ministers went there but newspaper reports suggested that they did not match that performance. It should be borne in mind that this Government has been in office only 6 weeks. Negotiations are already under way. We have had extensive discussions with the Legislative Councillors, and goodwill already has been created between the Legislative Councillors and this Government. Already measures have been introduced into that Legislative Council which the previous Government refused to allow to go through. For example, as an indication of: the concern that this Government feels for the Northern Territory, I refer to the abolition of the death penalty. The previous Government vetoed the proposal of the Legislative Council to abolish the death penalty. I think it was vetoed 5 times. The previous Government vetoed the proposal of the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory to set up an ombudsman. I think it vetoed that proposal a similar number of times. Those proposals have now gone through up there and they will not be vetoed by this Government. As recently as last week a small but very significant measure of law reform went through with Government support to make vagrancy no longer' a crime in the Northern Territory. I can assure honourable members of this House that the Northern Territory generally will have adegree of attention paid to it and a degree of importance attached to it that it has never seen before from previous Federal governments. 
We have talked about consumer protection, the need for upgrading the roads,' the need for an extension to the powers of the Port of Darwin Authority and all manner of other things such as criminal law reform; the police and Senate representation. How often did the previous Government reject and put off Senate representation for the Northern Territory? The Northern Territory is going to receive Senate representation. In some strange way the honourable member for the Northern Territory congratulates us but feels obliged to make a criticism. That is fair enough. We are criticised for not having left the important functions to be performed in the Northern Territory under the administration of the old Department of the Interior. We are criticised for making them the subject of specific specialised departments where they can be given proper attention with all the expertise, the facilities, the finance and the power of the Commonwealth Government for their solution. I refer to such departments as the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Department of Northern Development, the Department of Minerals and Energy and the Department of the Northern Territory. In some way the Opposition has the gall to suggest that that is worthy of criticism. I suggest that there is no merit in the criticism at all. One has only to go to the Northern Territory to read the reports in the local newspaper to see that this is so. I will be going up there again in March for another  3  or 4 days. I will be going up there on other occasions. The PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has already been there on one occasion. 
The Minister for Immigration is going and so is the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  I suggest that in  2  years time you will not know the Northern Territory. To compare it with the way it is at the moment will be interesting. 
There can be no doubt that what the honourable member has said is a matter of considerable concern. The increasing complexities of modern company activities and the changing patterns of behaviour in the commercial world certainly call for constant attention. I know that the Attorney-General has the matter under full and deep consideration and it will certainly be dealt with when the proposed Australiawide law dealing with companies is introduced. This question is not unrelated to the proposal of the Government to set up a securities and exchange commission, which also touches on the same sort of problem. However, I will refer the question to the Attorney-General and suggest that he give the honourable member a detailed answer. 
It is not true that 1 said that abortions were freely available. I said that they were virtually available on request, which is something quite different. I have not got the figures but they are available. There has been no change of policy, of course. Indeed it could not be a change of policy. But if the honourable member wishes to have the information I will seek it out for him and let him have it. 
During question time the honourable member for Bennelong asked me a question about abortions performed at the Canberra Hospital. The Minister for Health has supplied me with the following information: For the 12 months period from 12th October 1970 to 12th October 1971 the number of pregnancies terminated - that is really the same expression - was 55. The number of terminations on psychiatric grounds was 36, being 65.4 per cent, and the number on medical grounds was 19, being 34.6 per cent. In the later 12 months period from 12th October 1971 to 12th October 1972 the number of pregnancies terminated increased to 112. The number of terminations on psychiatric grounds was 82, being 73.2 per cent, and on medical grounds the number was 30, being 26.8 per cent. 
It is true that the Commonwealth police force takes very active steps to maintain a close association with State police forces. I am not aware of any State police force that has the file or the information referred to in the honourable member's question. I will consult the Attorney-General and will let the honourable member have the details on that aspect. 
I sometimes think when I listen to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  that the world he moves in and the world I move in must be different places. The reasons he gave for the difficulties, or the suggested difficulties, as to why this legislation had not been introduced for so long did not convince me. It is my understanding that the Government, when it was in opposition, endeavoured to introduce this legislation as long as 5 years ago. Its efforts to do so met with nothing but consistent opposition and hostility from the then Government which always had a million different reasons why it could not be done, the suggestion that some difficulty had arisen over uniformity or conformity with the States was put forward very late in the day. I do not think that any us was taken in because we knew at the time that the then Government had run out of steam, that it was in electoral trouble, as events subsequently proved to be correct, and that rather than take a chance or gamble on the unkown namely, whether the then Government would have any support from the young people df Australia, it shelved the proposal to give 18- year-olds a vote and put it aside as being not worthy of the risk. As I have said, that action should not really surprise us because other examples could be given of the same type of approach by the then Government. 
One of the Bills we are considering is the Australian Capital Territory Representation Bill. Back in 1970 the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  said that the Australian Capital Territory was virtually ready for increased representation. I seem to recall the honourable member for Gwydir, who was then the Minister for the Interior, saying the same thing. But they deliberately did not give that increased representation because they could not work out how on earth such a move would return a Liberal member to this Parliament. As a result they put off the legislation. Notwithstanding the overwhelming claim of justice and righteousness and the fact that increased representation was correct because the Australian Capital Territory was hopelessly under-represented, the then Government refused to introduce this legislation. It is only under this Labor Government that increased representation will be given. 
I suppose that one also could seek confirmation of the approach adopted by the other side of the House when we consider that, despite the difficulties that the previous Government faced during those 5 years, nothing really changed. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who introduced this Bill, has been able to formulate the legislation in 3 weeks, yet the previous Government could not, or refused to do so in 5 years. The previous Government could have introduced legislation giving 18-year-olds a vote at any time during this 5-year period, but it chose not to do so. I do not think there is any real uncertainty about why it decided not to do so. 
Legislation of this sort highlights the fundamental difference between the parties, not that all members who belong to the various parties are uniform in their approach. Naturally members of the Australian Labor Party differ among themselves. They represent a very broad cross-section of the Australian population, as do members who make up the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party. But if one looks at political philosophies in the sense of which parties advocate change and liberalism - I would suggest that this sort of legislation comes within that contextone will not find the conservative parties supporting it. I am not saying that all members on the Opposition benches are conservative, but the overwhelming majority of them are. I was hoping that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  might have preceded me in this debate. I do not think he comes into that category. But the great mass of members of the so-called Liberal Party, with respect to him, are not Liberals. I often ask myself where are the liberals in the Liberal Party? There are certainly none. 
Not high tories, probably low tories. In my opinion there are certainly no liberals in the Country Party. This is certainly to be understood and appreciated when one looks at legislation like this which could be introduced very quickly by Labor governments in Labor States. As the honourable member for Gwydir pointed out, this was done unilaterally in South Australia. Indeed the legislation was introduced very quickly by the Minister for Services and Property in the Commonwealth sphere. 
It is trite to talk about the increased maturity of young people because this is a matter of common observation for all of us. When members of the Opposition were in government they thought that young people were mature enough to be conscripted and to be sent to fight in a foreign war that was one of the most unjust wars of all time. Members of the then Government thought that young people were mature enough to be made pawns in the sense that they were used in certain earlier political campaigns and so divided the Australian population over the issue of Vietnam. The then Government was prepared to treat them as pawns and to regard them as being mature enough to fight but as not being old enough to have a political voice. The then Government disregarded these young people and refused to repeal conscription, something which the new Labor Government was able to do in a matter of a couple of days, to the great relief of the Australian population. 
We should not really be surprised by these things. We know that 18-year-olds today want to be interested in politics. Anyone who mixes with young people has this experience. I know that on 2nd December, the election day, I was followed on my visits to polling booths by 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20-year-olds who could not vote but who expressed support for the need for a change of government. I do not suggest for one moment that they were all Labor supporters. Many of them were not. But they felt a complete and deep concern that something seriously had gone wrong with this country because they were not being taken into account. They believed that political consciousness had fallen to a level in this country that had not been seen for many years. They wanted to be politically conscious and to be aware of the issues of their time. They wanted to concern themselves about things such as Aboriginal land rights. They had a sense of injustice, and they wanted to see injustice remedied. They knew that this action would not come from the then Government, which the Australian people subsequently threw out, so (hey turned to the Labor Party to give them a chance. 
We now face the situation in which this new Labor Government faces a great challenge and carries very great responsibility. This Government has to satisfy those young people - young people who live increasingly in the cities. I grew up in the country in the town of Dubbo which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Gwydir. It was said in those days that young people left the country to go to the city to find employment. People used to argue that young people could be kept from going to the cities if employment was provided for them in country towns. Because of a failure to provide employment and decentralisation in country areas young people have gone to the cities in increasing numbers. It is here that the crisis has arisen through a lack of sewerage, transport, opportunities and housing. It is because of these issues, apart from what I would call the civil liberty and idealistic issues, that young people have increasingly supported the new Labor Government. 
A recent gallup poll suggested the same thing. It pointed out that the swing of 3 per cent which gave the Australian Labor Party SO per cent of the first preference votes in the Federal election held on 2nd December was caused mostly by a 6 per cent gain by the Australian Labor Party amongst voters aged 21 to 29. That is the reason, as I suggested at the outset, why the previous Liberal PartyCountry Party Government refused to give them the vote. That is why this Government pledged to do so. The Government is happy to be in the position of knowing that the 18- year-olds have supported it. The Government will make sure that they continue to support the Labor Party. We are pledged to build the sort of Australia that will make ample and proper provision for their needs, both material and spiritual, in the full recognition of the idealistic sense. 
I wish to mention briefly now the effect that the Bill willi have on the number of people entitled to vote in the Australian Capital Territory. The enactment of this legislation will mean that if an election were held tomorrow the number of eligible voters in the Australian Capital Territory would jump from about 83,000 people - which is already by far the largest number of voters in any electorate in Australia - to approximately 93,000. The increase in the number of eligible voters in the Northern Territory would be about 6,000. A number of young people are affected by this legislation. I note that there is no real opposition to this Bill. Opposition speakers attempted only to provide an excuse as to why the previous Government did not introduce this legislation. Some valiant efforts have been made. The honourable member for Gwydir posed the thought of lack of uniformity or conformity. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition suggested that in some way a conspiracy existed; I am not sure how he would support that argument. 
I will listen with great interest to the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  I think that he probably will have a different approach to the problem. The simple fact is that this matter has been unfortunately interpreted in the past as politics at its lowest level; not politics as it should be and not politics in the sense that it is a democratic exercise of will or power to implement changes that are to the advantage of the great majority of members of our community, bringing into play a clash of ideas, a clash of ideologies and a clash of thoughts so that all people will benefit as they will by the passage of this legislation. 
We represent different groups. Government supporters take the view - I hold it very strongly - that the Liberal and Country parties represent vested interests which are not synonymous with the interests of young people generally. Opposition members take the view that the Government also represents vested interests. Reference has been made by them to trade unions. Trade unions represent the interests of more than half the Australian population and the interests represented by the Opposition are not those of more than half the Australian population. There is no opposition to this Bill. The Bill could have and should have been introduced 5 years ago. The former Government chose not to do so It has now been introduced in the first 3 weeks of the life of this Parliament to the great credit of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I support the Bill. 
I have seen the criticism to which the honourable member referred. I am sure that all the honourable members have seen the criticism. I suppose one has to say that whenever reforms are made to branches of the law like the divorce rules opinions will differ as to whether the reforms are done in the best way or whether a better way could have been followed. I think the best answer I can give to the honourable member's question is to point out that the old divorce rules have been subject to a great deal of criticism by some of the most learned and responsible people familiar with the subject, including  Mr Justice  Selby, the senior judge in divorce in New South Wales. The rules were greatly in need of reform. 
Any person who has had experience of the divorce jurisdiction will know the unpleasantness, embarrassment, hypocrisy, distaste, prurience and voyeurism that existed in the divorce courts as they were forced to operate under the old rules and the old philosophy. The changes in the rules make great steps forward. They remove the obligation to file a discretion statement. I have seen cases in the past where people have fought in the courts for weeks and weeks and incurred costs amounting to hundreds of dollars over whether a discretion statement should be made available to the other spouse. The changed rules remove the court fees. They attempt, successfully I hope, to impose a price limitation on fees so that more and more people can take advantage of the system. They remove the very unfortunate speculative nature of divorce proceedings whereby an order for costs meant that if a petitioner went to a lawyer, the lawyer would act only when he was reasonably sure that he would get his costs out of someone else's hide over a long period of time. They remove that aspect and the degrading experience of having sometimes 20 to 30 people in a day waiting in the courts, having to listen to everyone else'9 often thought dirty washing being washed in public while judges were forced to examine a person on a discretion statement. 
The changes in the divorce rules allow a divorce to be granted in the dignified atmosphere of a judge's chambers on affidavit evidence and they remove the obligation to deny condonation which is only another way of saying 'I forgave my wife' or '1 forgave my husband'. They remove the obligation to deny connivance because of the fault concept, which is archaic in our law, that people had virtually to say in advance: 'I have created a fault in order to get a divorce'. They deny the collusion aspect which is only another way of saying that people wanted a divorce and were prepared to agree to have a divorce. All in all, it is a magnificent step forward. 
RURAL RECONSTRUCTION  Mr SINCLAIR  - I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it true, as reported, that the amount of funds to be allocated for rural reconstruction in the coining financial year is to be significantly less than the annual rate provided by the previous Government - that is, the $118m which has been provided over the last 2 years? Is the reported amount inclusive or exclusive of the $l8m that was provided additional to the $100m included in the legislation? Is it true that the interest rate on the amount provided for rural reconstruction is to be increased? Does the reduction in the amount of money reflect a recognition by the Labor Government that the policies of the Liberal and Country Parties in primary industry have meant that the need for rural reconstruction is not as urgent as it once was? Finally, does this announcement reflect the only reply to the statement made by the Minister for Immigration that there was to be allocated a sum of $500m available for long term lending at 3 per cent interest? 
I move: 
That a Joint Committee be appointed to - 
examine and report on all proposals for modifications or variations of the plan of layout of the City of Canberra and its environs published in the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette on the nineteenth day of November 1925, as previously modified or varied, which are referred to the committee by the Minister for the Capital Territory; and 
examine and report on such other matters relating to the Australian Capital Territory as may be referred to the committee - 
by the Minister for the Capital Territory; or 
by resolution of either House of the Parliament. 
That the committee consist of 3 Members of the House of Representatives nominated by the Prime Minister, one Member of the House of Representatives nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, one Member of the House of Representatives nominated by the Leader of the Australian  Country  Party in the House of Representatives,  2  Senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, and  2  Senators nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a joint committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the Prime Minister nominate one of the government members of the committee as Chairman. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of 3 or more of its members and to refer to any such sub-committee any of the matters which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place and to sit during any recess or adjournment of the Parliament. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That 5 members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and  2  members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that subcommittee. 
That in matters of procedure the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  presiding at the meeting have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, have a casting vote, and that, in other matters, the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  have a deliberative vote only. 
That the committee have power to consider and make use of the minutes of evidence and records of the Joint Committees on the Australian Capital Territory, appointed in previous Parliaments, relating to any matters which are again referred to the committee. 
That the committee may proceed to the dispatch of business notwithstanding that all members df the committee have not been appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy on the committee. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting that it concur and take action accordingly. 
The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory has a long and distinguished record of valuable service to the Parliament and to the people of the Australian Capital Territory. The motion seeks to re-establish the 
Committee with slight variations. First of all there is the question of membership. Previously the Committee's membership of 9 was made up of 5 senators and 4 members of this House. With the creation of a specific portfolio of the Capital Territory, the Government believes it now more appropriate that the majority membership should be drawn from the House of Representatives. We propose that the 5 members of the House of Representatives should be in the proportion of 3 Government members to 2 nonGovernment members and that the Senate representation be 2 senators from the Government Party and 2 senators from the nonGovernment Parties. The Committee  Chairman  would be nominated by the Prime Minister. I have notified Party leaders in the Parliament of the proposals I have just outlined. In addition we have included in the motion a provision which would allow either House of Parliament, in addition to the Minister, to make references to the Committee. I believe that this will be a valuable extension of the Parliament's direct involvement in Committee affairs and one which will be welcomed by all honourable members. 
Re-establishment of the Committee, we expect, will allow a continuation of important work in hand before the prorogation of the House last year. In particular it is hoped that the Committee will be able to complete the examination of territorial accounts of the Australian Capital Territory, the full title of that inquiry being: An Inquiry into State and Municipal Costs and Revenues in the Australian Capital Territory. This work is important in the process of evolving satisfactory plans for territorial government in the Australian Capital Territory. In the previous Parliament the Joint Committee had already made a good deal of progress with what is inevitably a complex issue. The past work of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory is well known and needs no further elaboration from me on this occasion. As the member for the Australian Capital Territory and as the first Minister for the Capital Territory, I am confident that the Committee will continue to play a valuable role. In both capacities, it gives me great pleasure to commend the motion to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) adjourned. 
1 move: 
That a Joint Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on such matters relating to the Northern Territory as are referred to it - 
by the Minister for the Northern Territory; or 
by resolution of either House of the Parliament. 
That the committee consists of 3 Members of the House of Representatives nominated by the Prime Minister, one Member of the House of Representatives nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, one Member of the House of Representatives nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the House of Representatives, 2 Senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and 2 Senators nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
Thai the members of the committee hold office as a joint committee until the House of Representative, expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the Prime Minister nominate one of the Government members of the committee as Chairman. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 7) That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of 3 or more of its memhe rs and to refer to any such sub-committee any of the matters which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place and to sit during any recess or adjournment of the Parliament. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
HO) That the committee may proceed to the dispatch of business notwithstanding that all members of the committee have not been appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy on the committee. 
That J members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and 2 members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that subcommittee. 
That in matters of procedure the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  presiding at the meeting have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, have a casting vote, and that, in other matters, the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  have a deliberative vote only. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting that it concur and take action accordingly. 
This motion seeks to establish a Joint Committee of the Parliament on the Northern Territory similar in all respects to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. 
With the creation of my portfolio of Minister for the Northern Territory and the establishment of a full Department of the Northern Territory, based in the Northern Territory, this proposal is both logical and valuable. I have discussed the proposal with members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council and from all accounts I believe it is widely supported by them. We see the Committee as a valuable link between the Territory and the national legislature; a means of raising the general level of awareness, in this Parliament and elsewhere, of the Territory and its problems; and a proper recognition of the new situation created by the Government's new administrative arrangements. 
So far as the composition and functions of the proposed Committee are concerned, the terms of the motion are identical with those for the Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. There will be a total membership of 9. Five are to be drawn from the House of Representatives in the proportion of 3 from the Government and 2 from the Opposition. Four will be senators - 2 from the Government and 2 from the non-Government membership of that chamber. The  Chairman  will be nominated by the Prime Minister, and either House, in addition to the Minister, will be empowered to send references to the Committee. 
There are many subjects likely to form the basis of references to this new Committee, all of them of considerable significance to both the Territory and its legislature and to this national Parliament. One of them, widely canvassed in the Territory itself, is the question of future steps in the process of territorial involvement in the government of its affairs. I believe the Committee has an extremely valuable role to fill and that it will quickly come to be recognised in the same way as its counterpart in the Australian Capital Territory. I warmly commend the motion to the house. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcom  Fraser; adjourned. 
by leave - The statement which I am about to read dealing with the subject of Croatian terrorism was made in the Senate this afternoon by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy). 
Because the AttorneyGeneral was forced by tactics adopted by the Opposition in the Senate to make the statement earlier than he had intended there has not been time to prepare copies for this House at this stage. This is being done and we will let honourable members have copies as soon as possible. However, I have asked that copies of  Senator Murphy's  speech in the Senate be made available to honourable members at this stage so that they can follow what I am about to say because the speech of the Attorney-General and my own are substantially the same. 
We must never accept the proposition that we must get used to political terrorism, involving bombings, murder, intimidation and that democratic governments are powerless to suppress such activities. That such actions have occurred in Australia with increasing frequency in recent years is beyond dispute. There was a curious defeatism and lack of initiative in successive Liberal-Country Party Governments' reaction to these outrages. 
Honourable members will recall that, throughout the last session of the last Parliament, the former Attorney-General was asked a great number of questions by Labor senators about the activities of Croatian extremists in Australia and the matter was canvassed in this House. A constant theme in the answers that came from the government of the day was that although there were undoubtedly individual Croatian extremists in Australia who were prepared to resort to the most violent methods in alleged furtherance of their cause, there was no credible evidence that any Croatian revolutionary terrorist organisation existed in Australia. For example in the Senate on 24th August 1972, the then Attorney-General said:  the searches and investigations carried out by the Commonwealth Police hitherto have not been able to discover any evidence of an organisation. 
The then Attorney-General again repeated this assertion on 19th September 1972 in answer to a question from  Senator Douglas  McClelland which is reported in Hansard at page 894. It is important to remember that the time when these questions were being asked and answered was a time of great public concern about terrorism. The reasons for this were twofold. Firstly, in June 1972 a group of 19 Croatian terrorists crossed into Yugoslavia from Austria and engaged in terrorist activities in Bosnia. Six were Australian citizens and 3 others had previously lived in Australia. In other words, nine, or approximately one-half of the group, had been in Australia and about one-third were Australian naturalised citizens. 
As a result the Yugoslav Government presented a strongly worded aide-memoire to the Australian Government alleging, inter alia, that the headquarters of the HRB (Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood) were located in Australia, that the Australian Government had provided shelter for the ringleaders, who were named, and that the HRB, which had been thought by the Australian authorities to have been defunct for some years, had been reorganised early in 1972 as the HIRO (Croatian Illegal Revolutionary Organisation). 
Following receipt of this aide-memoire, the Commonwealth and State police conducted a series of raids in Melbourne and Sydney during the month of August and a great deal of material was seized. It is to be assumed that the first law officer of Australia, of the Commonwealth, the Attorney-General, would be kept informed by the police of the results of their investigations, especially as he continued to be closely questioned in the Senate about Croatian extremist activities. And, indeed, he admitted on 19th September 1972 that he had seen a lot of material in the possession of the Commonwealth Police. 
The second factor which highlighted the question of Croat terrorism in Australiaand which attracted special attention from the Commonwealth and State police was the occurrence of 2 bombing incidents in Sydney on 16th September 1972 involving premises and persons connected with the Yugoslav community. These incidents left unaltered the then Attorney-General's statement that there was no organised terrorism among the Croatian community in Australia. 
One must assume also that the AttorneyGeneral of the day would have known that a cache of explosives and documents had been discovered in the Warburton Ranges outside Melbourne, about the middle of 1972 and that amongst these documents were several stating the aims and objects of an Ustasha-type organisation known as HIRO (Croatian Illegal Revolutionary Organisation). This is the very organisation to which the Yugoslav Government's aide-memoire made reference. However, when the Senate rose on 27th October 1972, neither the Attorney-General nor any other member of the Liberal-Country Party Government had produced any evidence of the existence in Australia of organised Croatian terrorism and that Government held firmly to the position that no such evidence existed. 
On taking over the office of Attorney-General, the present Attorney-General considered it his duty to find out for himself whether this was true and to inform the Parliament and the people of Australia of the facts. The impending visit to Australia of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia gave special urgency to this investigation, since, if the true picture was different from that painted by the previous Government, the present Government was entitled to entertain grave fears for the safety of our distinguished guest and would be in duty bound to take adequate precautions for his safety. 
The Attorney-General stated categorically thai the Liberal Attorney-General's oftrepeated assertion that there is no credible evidence of the existence in Australia of organised Croatian extremism cannot be sustained. The contrary is true and was true at the time he made his statements. The evidence - overwhelming evidence - is to be found in documents which the Attorney-General has tabled in the Senate this afternoon. They are enormous in their volume; they are extensive and lengthy. However, because of the difficulty relating to time that I mentioned earlier and because of the limited scope of the Senate printing facilities, notwithstanding the fact that officers of the Senate worked until the early hours of this morning to print this material, it has not been possible to supply honourable members with copies of these documents. What I would like at this stage is to have leave to incorporate the list of documents referred to by the Attorney-General in the Senate and the summary of documents and undertake that at the first opportunity tomorrow I will supply honourable members with the balance of the copies of the docu ments. I ask leave to have the list of documents that I have referred to and the summary of documents incorporated in Hansard. 
I think I can say at this stage that when copies of all the documents are available tomorrow honourable members will be able to judge for themselves the strength of the statement that is now being made. The documents about which I have spoken come from the files of the AttorneyGeneral's Department, the Commonwealth Police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Although some of the documents tabled contain a classification stamp such as 'secret' or 'confidential' they are no longer so. They have all been declassified and no breach of security is involved in tabling them. In contrast to the last Government's policy of trying to sweep this problem under the rug, we propose to bring it into the full light of day. 
The documents establish beyond doubt that Croatian terrorist organisations have existed and do exist in Australia today. There is incontestable evidence that 3 extreme Croatian terrorist organisations exist in Australia today. They are: The Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood (HRB); the United Croats of West Germany (UHNj); and the Croatian Illegal Revolutionary Organisation (HIRO). There are 2 youth organisations that have very revolutionary aims and have been used as recruiting grounds for the 3 extreme terrorist organisations. These youth organisations are: The Croatian Youth (HM) and the World League of Croatian Youths (SHUMS). There are 2 umbrella type general organisations which by their publications, training camps, discussion groups, funds and close links with their national organisations provide the climate for the forming of the inspiration to the youth groups and the extreme terrorist organisations. These umbrella organisations are: The Croatian Liberation Movement (HOP) with its official Ustasha movement within it (UHRO) and the Croatian National Resistance (HNO) and its Croatian Armed Forces (HOS). The summary of the documents contains inter alia: The report of the Crime Intelligence Bureau of the Commonwealth Police Force dated 6th March 1968; papers about the notorious Andric brothers; papers about Jure Maric including the structure of the Croatian troika terrorist cell, a self-contained group of 3 terrorists consisting of an intelligence officer, a scout and an explosives expert; documents concerning all of the Croatian organisations mentioned and documents indicating links with overseas terrorist organisations as well as other related documents. 
It is impossible to draw any other conclusion from the evidence contained in these documents than that the then AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  on the most charitable view of his conduct, displayed an irresponsible indifference to information which was available to him and which proved up to the hilt the seriousness of the problem to which Labor senators and members repeatedly attempted to alert him. Let me give a striking example. The Yugoslav aide-memoire was received by the Australian Government on 16th August 1972. Among those named in the aide-memoire as being one of the ringleaders of Croatian terrorism is one Jure Maric. He was already well known to the Commonwealth Police. He first came under notice in 1963, after a group of 6 Croatian extremists, allegedly from Australia, entered Yugoslavia illegally for the stated purpose of waging a guerrilla campaign against the regime. Marie was linked with the organisation of this incursion. 
Investigations conducted over a period of 4 years established the existence in Australia of a terrorist organisation known as the HRB (Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood). Marie was one of its leaders. After a number of Australian police raids in 1967, including one on Marie's premises, the HRB appeared to become moribund in a formal organisational sense, although as we now know it continued to operate through troikas or cells. However, Marie continued to be the subject of scrutiny by the Commonwealth Police and a possible prosecution of him under the Commonwealth Crimes Act was considered in October 1970. He was also the subject of memoranda from the Commonwealth Police to the AttorneyGeneral's Department on 9th August 1971 and 12th September 1972. In view of the questioning in the Senate to which he was being submitted at the time, one assumes that the former Attorney-General would have seen these memoranda. 
Marie was one of those whose premises were searched by the Commonwealth Police under warrant on 22nd August 1972, following receipt by the Australian Government of the aide-memoire from the Yugoslav Government in which he was named. Among the documents seized were a detailed map of the area where the Bosnian guerrillas had illegally entered the country; a letter discussing an initial ruling body of an independent Croatia (including, significantly, the name Rover of whom more later); a receipt from Wollongong Post Office for the transmission of a registered postal article to one Vegar at Off en berg in Austria (Vegar was one of the guerrillas killed in the Bosnian operation); a bank slip issued by the ANZ Bank, Wollongong, acknowledging transmission of money to Vegar; a letter detailing future plans for the recruitment of volunteers in Australia for further incursions into Yugoslavia. One of the letters signed refers to the fact that the 'financial resources of the organisation which we took wilh us from Victoria as well as those received later, have now been used up*. 
Does this sound like an individual operating independently of an organisation? The Commonwealth Police certainly did not think so. Their conclusion is as follows: 
The evidence contained In this document when taken into consideration with that enumerated in the aforementioned memorandum of 7th November 1972 would seem to irrefutably implicate Jure Marie with  a  Croatian Nationalist Organisation which apparently exists in both Australia and Europe and which has been engaged in an attempt to overthrow the recognised Government of Yugoslavia. It is also considered that, regardless of what this organisation is called, it is in fact a resurgence of the former Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood (HRB) and appears to involve a number of persons who were previously, identified as members of the HRB. As you will recall in our initial assessment of the allegations made in the Yugoslav aide-memoire presented on 16th August 1972, we expressed 'serious concern about the possible existence of  a  clandestine terrorist organisation in Australia*. We also stated, inter alia: With regard to the allegations about the HRB, I would draw your attention to cur earlier reports (reference 224/283 headed Croatian Nationalist Activities in Australia, dated 5th July 1972, and reference X.61, headed Srecko Blaz Rover, born Srd February 1920, Sarajevo, Yugoslavia, dated 20th April 1972) indicating the possible resurgence of a HRB type organisation. In the past it has generally been assumed that the HRB as such ceased to operate as an organisation in Australia circa 1967-1968. In the light of intelligence gathered by this Force over the past 9 months, the allegations of its continued existence by the Yugoslav Government must be taken seriously. 
The Police report from which I have quoted is dated 23rd November 1972. However, a preliminary report on documents seized from Marie, Rover and others was made by the Acting Commissioner of Commonwealth Police to the Attorney-General's Department on 12th September 1972 and the AttornevGeneral would undoubtedly have seen this report. Though all the seized documents had not been translated at this stage, there were references to the maps, to the receipt for the transmission of money to Vegar and to handwritten items relating to the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood and the organisational infrastructure of a troika group. In short, on or soon after 12th September 1972 the then Attorney-General was in possession of evidence that the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood had been revived, was functioning actively and was associated with the June incursion into Yugoslavia which had been the subject of complaint in the Yugoslav Government's aide-memoire of 16th August 1972. Yet on 19th September 1972 the then Attorney- 
General returned to his denials of the existence of any Croatian terrorist organisation in Australia and never resiled from that standpoint throughout the life of that Parliament. 
A responsible Attorney-General, aware of Marie's past role as a leader of HRB, aware of the fact that Marie had been named as a terrorist in the Yugoslav document, aware of the anxieties about the resurgence of Croatian terrorism expressed almost daily by Labor senators, would surely not have reacted to the raid on Marie's premises and the seizure of documents referred to in the way in which  Senator Greenwood  reacted. Let us examine his conduct in this matter in some detail, since it is symptomatic of the previous Government's attitude to the problem. The first point to note is that the raid on Marie, and other suspected terrorists, was not made at the Attorney-General's instigation. On 23rd August, the day after the raids, in reply to a question from  Senator O'Byrne,  the then Attorney-General stated in part: 
The position as I have stated it for several weeks - that there is no credible evidence of any Croatian terrorist groups in Australia - still stands. The searches which were made yesterday by Commonwealth Police Officers, together with State Police officers, were not directed towards obtaining any such evidence ... I should state that the searches yesterday were made as part of a police investigation and were made without my knowledge. 
Parliament rose on 27th October without any information being given to the Senate about the contents of the seized documents. 
Marie had been named as a terrorist in the Yugoslav Government protest presented to the Australian Government on 16th August 1972. A bland interim reply was given to the Yugoslav Government on 20th October 1972, mentioning that the matter was being investigated but making no admissions about the presence of Croatian terrorist organisations in our midst, even though evidence of the existence of such organisations was in the possession of the Attorney-General when the interim reply was given. No further reply to these allegations was ever made by the Liberal Government to the Yugoslav Government. Yet the conclusion reached by the Commonwealth Police and conveyed to the Attorney-General's Department as early as 17th August 1972 was in these words: lt (i.e. the aide-memoire) does contain  a  core of almost irrebuttable fact. 
In addition the Director-General of ASIO on 7th September 1972 stated in reference to the aide-memoire in a letter to the AttorneyGeneral's Department: 
Also in general terms, some of the information is almost certainly inaccurate; other portions contain elements of truth but appear exaggerated; and yet other statements are well-based. Overall the  Aide-memoire  and enclosures contain sufficient accurate material to suggest that it would be illadvised to dismiss the allegations as either exaggeration or fabrication until such time as the results of current inquiries are known. 
ASIO never retreated from that stand and subsequently agreed with the present AttorneyGeneral that the aide-memoire contained a core of irrebuttable truth. And yet, on 19th September, the then Attorney-General said in the other place:  lt comes to the question whether we should accept allegations made by the  President  and the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia as having a basis in fact notwithstanding that our investigation of those allegations in Australia has proved that the allegations are without such a basis. Simply, it comes down to this: Does this Senate accept what is alleged by the  President  and the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia in preference to what our own Commonwealth Police have found and what I have stated? 
It had taken the then Attorney-General only a month to forget the Commonwealth Police's core of almost irrebuttable fact', and less than a fortnight to forget the cautionary advice of ASIO. In one of the many debates on this subject last year  Senator Greenwood  indignantly asked  Senator Murphy  whether he gave greater credence to the allegations of the Yugoslav Government than to the statements which he the then Attorney-General had made. We now know for sure that the answer is: Yes, and so do the Commonwealth Police and ASIO'. 
As though the evidence I supplied were not enough to convict the last Government, through its Attorney-General, of misleading the Parliament and the nation, of deceiving a friendly foreign power, of imperilling the lives of Australian citizens by shutting its eyes to the evidence of organised terrorism, there is yet another perhaps more glaring example of the existence of a dangrous, violent Croatian revolutionary terrorist organisation in Australia. This organisation, separate and distinct from the HRB (Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood) is the Australian Branch of the UHNj (League of United Croats of West Germany). Its leader in Germany is one Ante Vukic, whom our Commonwealth police considered such a dangerous man that they advised the Immigration Department against granting him a permit to visit Australia in May 1972. The organisation in Germany was associated over the last decade with attempted murders of Yugoslav officials and attacks on Yugoslav embassies, and employed strong-arm squads to threaten other Croats living in Germany for the purpose of either conscripting them into the organisation or extracting financial contributions. A branch of this murderous organisation was formed in Sydney around June 1971 and its membership and activities were well known to the Commonwealth Police. Its meetings, ironically enough, are or were held in the Ulster Room of the Irish National Association Hall in Devonshire Street, Sydney. Its leader is a man with a particularly violent record named Jakov Suljak.  His  name will certainly not come as a surprise to the former Attorney-General since he wrote to  Senator Greenwood  on 25th October 1972 after being arrested on a charge of assault and mentioned in the course of his letter that he had also been accused of the 'city bombings', an obvious reference to the bombings in Sydney on 16th September 1972. 
In June 1969 Suljak was gaoled in South Australia for a period of 9 months for 2 particularly brutal assaults. He had already been charged with similar offences on 5 separate occasions and is at present on bail pending trial for assault and being found in possession of an unlicensed pistol. On 11th November 1969 the Commissioner of Commonwealth Police,  Mr J.  Davis, recommended that he be deported, but his recommendation was not acted upon. Among the voluminous documents on Suljak and the Australian branch of the terrorist organisation UHNj, which have been tabled today in the Senate and which will be tabled in this place tomorrow, is a letter dated 30th May 1972 from  Mr Davis,  Commissioner of Commonwealth Police, to the Department of Immigration. The letter, a copy of which was in the files of the Attorney-General's Department, sets out the fact of the existence of this organisation, its meetings, its office holders and its involvement in breaches of the peace in Sydney over the preceding months. 
A brochure produced by the Special Reports Branch of the Department of Immigration in August 1972 on Croatian extremist activities makes special reference to the UHNj, its organisation in Australia, its activities and its members. A copy of this brochure was forwarded to the Attorney-General's Department on 25th August 1972 and it was specifically directed by the Permanent Head of the Attorney-General's Department to  Senator Greenwood  himself.  His  most vehement denials of the existence of extremist Croatian organisations followed shortly after his receipt of this document, which is among the documents tabled today in the Senate. Moreover, if the former Attorney-General was unwilling to accept the evidence which abounded in Government files, he had only to read the daily newspapers to discover that the New South Wales Police stated in court proceedings, which were fully reported, that Suljak was a member of what was described in the Press as 'a Croatian terrorist movement, the United Croats of West Germany*. 
When Suljak was arrested on 19th October 1972 a considerable quantity of documents was seized from his dwelling. These documents established the fact of transmission of funds from the Australian branch to the parent bodyin Germany. A number of photographs of armed men were also found, including one in which Suljak can be seen standing beside an Ustashi flag in the company of other armed men. There is no doubt that the members of the Sydney branch of the UHNj consider themselves Ustashi. Both the letter of Commissioner Davis of 30th May 1972 and his detailed report of 26th October 1972 refer to incidents in which the organisation was involved which clearly demonstrates its Ustashi allegiance. For example, they publicly displayed an Ustashi flag at Sydney airport and also at a Croatia v. Yugal soccer match in Sydney on 15th August 1971. Several of their members have admitted to the police that they consider themselves Ustashi. 
In an article by Suljak in the November/December edition of the organisation's paper 'Croatian Call', he urged Croats in Australia to support UHNj and stated: lt is our duty to support the Croatian Liberation struggle . . . for without a bloody shirt there will be no independent State of Croatia. 
He does not confine his appeals to the journalistic level but regularly 'stands over' other Croats for donations to the cause. At this point honourable members might well ponder a few questions. Why was this man Suljak not deported in 1969 as recommended by the Commissioner of Commonwealth Police? Why has his organisation, which flaunts its Ustashi allegiance, and which is acknowledged by ASIO in another document which is to be tabled here tomorrow, to be a terrorist organisation, been allowed to continue in existence? And above all why was this existence denied by  Senator Greenwood? 
A rather surprising beneficiary of the former Attorney-General's benevolence is one Zdenko Marincic. ] Marincic arrived in Australia on 16th January 1970. He became secretary of SHUMS (Union of Croatian United Youth of the World) which, despite its innocent sounding name, is under the effective control of Srecko 1 Rover and is suspected by the Commonwealth Police of being an extremist front organisation (see letter from J. Davis, Commissioner of Commonwealth Police, to the Attorney-General's Department dated 8th June 1972). He first attracted police attention on 29th November 1970 when he removed a Yugoslav flag from the balcony of the Southern Cross Hotel in Melbourne during Yugoslav National Day celebrations and burned it. For this offence he was convicted on 9th February 1972 and fined. On 19th May 1972 Marincic hastily left Australia. This was shortly before the 'Bosnian incident', the incursion into Yugoslavia, which has already been referred to. Marincic turned up in Frankfurt, Germany, but the German authorities refused him entry. He had not obtained a re-entry permit before leaving Australia, so he has no right at all to be here. Nonetheless he returned to Australia on 24th May 1972 and was immediately arrested and charged the next day with having a firearm in his possession. He was convicted and sentenced to 9 months imprisonment. 
This was not a simple firearms offence. When he left Australia hurriedly on 19th May 1972 Marincic took with him a rifle and 4 silencers which he concealed in a toy koala. When the rifle was discovered the German authorities refused him entry and he returned to Australia with gun and silencers. He also was in possession of a booklet in the SerboCroatian language containing instruction on sabotage and of the names and addresses of Ambroz Andric in France, Adolf Andric in Germany and Pave Vegar in Germany. AH 3 of these men were named in the Yugoslav Government aide-memoire as participants in the Bosnian incursion anc?, it will be recalled that Jure Marie had also maintained contact with Vegar. All 3 were killed in this adventure, according to the Yugoslav Government. Surely it is a reasonable inference that MarinC1C went to Germany to join the Bosnian incursion or at least to help equip it 
On 18th October 1972 the AssistantDirector of the Special Reports Branch of the Department of immigration recommended Marincic's deportation. In weighing up all the considerations, including Marincic's probable fate if he returned to Yugoslavia, the AssistantDirector said: 
I  believe the  strong doubts which  exist about his past and future involvement  in  potentially violent Balkan politics should be exercised  in  favour of Australia  and  therefore recommend that Zdenko Marincic  be  deported. 
Such action, I suggest will  have a salutary effect  upon those  Croatians who  use Australia  as a base  for pursuit  of  their ideals  and  will  also provide  the Yugoslav  authorities  with  a positive indication  that  Australia  neither  supports nor condones  extremism. 
I venture to suggest that they are sentiments with which the overwhelming majority of Australians would agree. These sentiments, however, did not find favour with the last Attorney-General in the previous Government. 
In a long and carefully argued submission to the Minister for Immigration dated 12th November 1972,  Senator Greenwood  reversed the priorities as between the interests of Australia and those of an obvious Croatian terrorist in favour of the latter.  His  letter, which is among the documents tabled, should be closely studied by everyone who is interested to discover the basis of his curiously tender regard for men whose preferred methods of asserting their political beliefs are the bomb and the gun. Let me quote just one passage from this extraordinary letter from the then Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  to the Minister for Immigration of the day. It states:  1 appreciate your concern  that Marincic is a person  whom we could not safely  allow to remain in Australia.  1  understand  your  apprehension is that he  is a man with  a propensity to  violence and  that, in  view  of  recent  happenings involving violence to  persons and  property,  we  have a paramount obligation to  the  Australian community to  remove  him from  the  country. 
Naturally I  share your apprehension that we should knowingly allow a person of violent proclivities to  remain in  this country  if  he is an immigrant whom  we can  deport. But this is a matter of balancing the likely  harm  to Australia against the consequences of deportation. It  is  relevant in each case to note the country to which a person  will be  deported. 
I  have indicated the traditional and accepted  rule -  applicable not only in the past  in  this country but also in the  USA  and the  UK -  that deportation or extradition does  not  take place  where  a person is likely to  be  dealt with for his political opinions by the country  to  which he is sent.  I  believe that this outweighs all other considerations  in  this case. 
In the event, Marincic is still with us. However misguided one might consider an Attorney- 
General who placed the interests of an obvious terrorist ahead of the interests of the Australian people, there would be some who would be impressed by the countervailing libertarian considerations on which his submission was apparently based. There is, however, a fatal flaw in this argument, which assumes that the deportation of Marincic would inevitably place him at the mercy of the Yugoslav police. The chief law officer of Australia, the then Attorney-General, must have been familiar with the decision of the High Court in the case of Znaty v. The Minister of State for Immigration and Another reported in 1972 Argus Law Reports at page 545. Judgment in this case was delivered on 25th February 1972, that is, some 9 months prior to the letter to the Minister for Immigration urging him not to deport Marincic. 
The judgment of the High Court in that case clearly established the right of the government to deport a person to anywhere. Counsel briefed by the Attorney-General submitted that the law was and had been since 1903 that the government is not bound to send the deportee back to the place from which he came, and the Court approved that submission. If we assume that  Senator Greenwood  was familiar with this decision - surely he would not undertake to advise the Minister for Immigration without familiarising himself with the up-to-date state of the law regarding immigration matters - we can only reach one conclusion about this conduct in this matter: In order to protect a terrorist from deportation, he misinformed the Minister responsible for the issuance of a deportation order about the legal consequences for the terrorist of such an order. 
This is a serious charge but is supported by an earlier example of  Senator Greenwood's  benign view of the rights of terrorists. This case involved none other than Jure Marie, about whom I have already said a great deal. On 4th July 1972 the Attorney-General's Department put a submission to him that he should recommend that Marie's application for a passport be refused. The officer of the Department who made this recommendation pointed out that ASIO's latest report and the most recent Commonwealth Police report on Marie indicated that he was deeply involved in Croatian nationalist activities and was prepared to support acts of violence against Yugoslavia, that there was a real possibility that he would, if granted a passport, be a participant in acts of violence directed against Yugoslavia and that, if this occurred, it would be an embarrassment to Australia's relations with Yugoslavia.  Senator Greenwood  rejected this advice from his Department and was not in favour of refusing the passport to Marie. Fortunately, the Minister for Immigration did not grant Marie's application. 
In a previous debate on this subject  Senator Greenwood  indignantly repudiated the charge that he was 'soft' on the Croatian terrorists. Surely that was a mild charge to lay at the door of a man whom the documents prove to have been the active protector of terrorists. On 21st September 1972, 2 high-ranking officers of the Attorney-General's Department, alarmed by recent events, especially the bombings in the streets of Sydney, called on him and drew to his attention certain Croatian publications and discussed the various Croatian organisations. Their submissions to the Attorney-General are among the documents which were produced today to the Senate and which will be produced here tomorrow. One of these officers, who had been specially assigned 6 years earlier to Croatian affairs and was considered in the Department to be the expert on this subject, expressed fee view that 2 of these organisations - HOP and HNO - Vere not primarily cultural but political and militarist'. A few weeks later this officer was relieved of his duties concerning Croatian matters. 
The tone of the last Government's attitude towards Croatian terrorism was set as long ago as 27th August 1964 by  Sir Robert  Menzies.  His  statement was precipitated by a complaint by the Yugoslav government of the day following 2 incidents - firstly, the '1963 guerrilla incursion into Yugoslavia by 6 Croatians previously resident in Australia and. secondly, the discovery of a military-style training camp for Croatian extremists near Wodonga, Victoria.  Mr Menzies,  speaking on the subject, gave a little lecture on Balkan history and stated that police "had found no evidence whatever to support allegations of Ustashi violence towards individuals of Yugoslav nationality'.  Mr Menzies  went on to say: 
It is understandable that some Yugoslav migrants of Croatian origin should continue to hope for the establishment of an independent Croatia and within a democracy like Australia they have a right to advocate their views so long as they do so by legitimate means. 
That is a reasonable proposition; no-one could agree with it. But I leave it honourable members to judge whether the 'means' disclosed by these documents today are 'legitimate'. The long list of unsolved crimes of violence - something like 52 incidents in the last 9 years - tells an eloquent story of the indifference of Liberal-Country Party government of 23 years duration to the 'means' used by Croatian extremists to attain the goals about which  Mr Menzies  spoke so benignly. The police have done their best with inadequate resources and no encouragement. They could hardly fail to draw the conclusion that successive Liberal governments could not have cared less whether they succeeded or not in crushing Croatian terrorism. 
To be sure, there were sporadic cries of alarm from individual Liberal-Country Party Ministers of the day. For example, on 3rd December 1969 the Honourable Phillip Lynch, then Minister for Immigration, wrote to the then Attorney-General Hughes expressing:   . . concern at the likely serious consequences if Croat nationals in Australia are permitted to continue unchecked their terrorist activities and outrages against representatives of the Yugoslav Government and authority generally in this country. I have reason to believe that the terrorists are endeavouring to create the impression amongst Yugoslav migrants in Australia that the Croatian extremists have the support of significant sections of Australian society and even the government. I am moreover concerned with the likely effect upon our relations with Yugoslavia, especially in terms of our migration arrangements with that country, of continued incidents of this kind and the apparent inability of the law authorities to apprehend offenders. 
The Minister recommended that the Government should make a strong statement that outrages 'of this kind will not be tolerated'. That was  Mr Lynch  in government.  Mr Lynch  out of government speaks in a different tone. Last week he condemned the precautions taken to protect the visiting Yugoslav Prime Minister as 'hysterical'. 

 Sir Garfield Barwick, then Minister for External Affairs, also expressed his concern shortly after the 1963 incursion into Yugoslavia. In a letter addressed to the AttorneyGeneral and the Minister for Immigration dated 6th January 1964, he wrote, in part: 
In essence, the problem is one of 'keeping an eye' on immigrant extremists, while operating within the framework of existing law and practice. We should not abandon our democratic principles of free speech, belief and association but I would hope that migrants are left with no misunderstanding of the disfavour with which the Government would view  any activities which might reasonably give rise to objections by the present governments of their countries of origin. With this end in mind, I should like to suggest that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation should maintain some supervision over migrant groups (making no attempt to disguise its surveillance) and bring to your attention any activities which might be considered to have contravened Sections 30  (a)  or 30  (c)  of the Crimes Act. In appropriate circumstances, it may be necessary to consider the desirability of prosecutions under the Act as a further deterrent to uncontrolled extremism, although this measure need not be adopted except in the last resort. 
The story unfolded today and the documents tabled show how little heed was paid to the warnings of  Mr Lynch  and  Sir Garfield  Barwick. 
Indeed one can only agree with the comments made by one prominent politician in a letter which he wrote to the then Attorney-General on 16th December 1969. His comments included the following: 
The extremists themselves may by now have come to believe that they can act with impunity and that they can therefore, without risk to themselves, step up the level and frequency of violence. 
He went on to express some concern that: 
On the only occasion when an offender (who was arrested at the time of committing the offence in the course of a public demonstration) was brought before a court, he was fined an amount which might have left an impression with the Yugoslav missions here . . . that the Australian authorities did not take the matter seriously. 
For the benefit of honourable members who are interested, those comments came from the Rt Hon. William McMahon, when he was Minister for External Affairs. Even after these ministerial complaints the attitude of Attorney-General Hughes and his successors was one which ASIO described to the present Attorney-General as that of 'indifference' to the problem of Croatian terrorism. It bears repeating. Even after these ministerial complaints and the other matters to which I have adverted, the attitude of Attorney-General Hughes and his successors was one which ASIO described to the present AttorneyGeneral as that of indifference to the problem of Croatian terrorism. In the view of ASIO the Organisation was not given proper ministerial directives in regard to Croatian terrorism. 
Passing reference has been made to Srecko Rover. He is a leader of the Croatian Liberation Movement in this country and, indeed, he is a world figure of considerable, importance among emigrant Croats. He is the leader of HNO (Croatian National Resis tance), based in Melbourne and linked with the Spanish headquarters of the organisation. Among the documents tabled today is a copy of an interview between a Commonwealth Police officer and Rover. The latter admits that he will use any means possible to achieve an independent Croatia; claims to know that one of the Andric brothers (since killed in the Bosnia incursion) made the pen bomb which exploded in Richmond Town Hall on 2nd September 1967, gravely injuring a young man; advocates the violent overthrow of the Yugoslav Government. Documents seized in the raid on Rover's home in August 1972, copies of which are amongst those tabled today including a map of the route to be followed by the incursionists, prove conclusively his personal involvement with the Bosnia incursion of June 1972. Also seized was a seal bearing the insignia of the Supreme Headquarters of the Croatian National Resistance and the Croatian Armed Forces, ammunition and documents relating to the instigation of guerrilla activity in Yugoslavia. 
A most significant document seized was a report from the Supreme Advisory Council of the troika dated 15th July 1972, indicating that an organisation has been set up in Australia on the basis of small cells or troikas. The manner in which these troikas operate is set out in detail in a report from tha Commonwealth Police prepared on 6th March 1968 which was always available to the former Attorney-General and which is among the documents tabled today. In a move to establish himself as the leader of Croatian nationalism in Australia, Rover was mainly instrumental in the setting up in May 1972 of KOHDA (Co-ordinating Committee of Croatian Associations in Australia). Affiliated with the Committee are such important organisations as HOP (Croatian Liberation Movement), HNO (Croatian National Resistance) and UHN (United Croats of West Germany). 
Now that it is clear that the ' new Labor Government intends to cope vigorously with the problem of Croatian terrorism we hope and believe that it will be possible to gain the co-operation of that vast majority of peaceful Croatian citizens who are the first victims of the fanatical minority of their countrymen who engage in terrorism. The documents I have referred to show that Croatians have been intimidated to contribute money to the terrorists. The measures which  we  propose will put an end to this. 
What we have said about Croatian terrorism applies to all terrorism - the Bulgarians, Daskaloff and Petroff, were convicted of throwing a bomb into the grounds of the Russian Embassy in Canberra not very long ago and were sentenced to terms of imprisonment. Despite that these men were clearly liable for deportation, the previous Government did not deport them and they are still here with us. The present Government's policy will be to deport aliens associated with terrorist organisations who have been convicted of crimes of violence, and become liable to deportation. 
Recommendations have been made that certain persons be deported, not necessarily to the country from which they came. All proper procedures and safeguards of civil liberties will be observed. The Minister for Immigration makes the necessary orders. The new policy is to cut out the cancer of terrorism from our body politic. This should apply to all who are liable to deportation and from whom violence can be apprehended. The law will be used to deal with terrorism and violence. 
Important changes will also be made in our police and security arrangements. Pending the full report on the operations of ASIO and its relations with the executive government which the Attorney-General intends to present to Parliament during this session, the DirectorGeneral of ASIO will operate mainly from Canberra. This will ensure closer liaison with the Australian Government and the Commonwealth Police in combating terrorism. In the past there has been inadequate co-operation between ASIO and the Commonwealth Police in areas where their operations overlapped. This is a problem to which the AttorneyGeneral has given much attention in the past few weeks. 
Another problem is that matters of national security often involve breaches of State criminal law. This has often meant that ASIO has not been supplied with information which bears on matters of national security. The conclusion the Attorney-General has drawn from this is that we need Federal laws to cover crimes which may affect national security. The Attorney-General is to recommend to Cabinet that legislation be introduced for new or strengthened Federal criminal laws to deal with offences such as the use of telephones or postal services to convey threats to persons or property, committing an act of violence against a foreign guest of the Australian Government, against diplomatic or consular personnel or premises or against persons or premises engaged in or used for overseas or interstate trade and commerce, acts of violence or threats of violence against Australian Ministers or officials of the Australian Government and others, acts or threats of violence or extortion by aliens, inciting in Australia acts of violence against a person or property in a foreign state with which Australia has friendly relations or to collect money or to train persons in the use of weapons, explosives or poisons in Australia for this purpose. The Attorney-General will also propose legislation to supplement the powers already possessed by the Australian Government to prevent the entry into Australia of terrorists or persons associated with organised crime. 
The Commonwealth Police will be strengthened, especially in its criminal investigation unit. The Commissioner of Commonwealth Police had requested the previous Government to be supplied with extra staff and additional translators but this request fell on deaf ears. These requests have now been examined by the Attorney-General's Department, found to be reasonable and appropriate, and the Attorney-General has approved them. 
I should like to add a word about the events of last week. The Attorney-General had advice that terrorists came to Canberra last week with the intention of killing the Yugoslav Prime Minister. The Commissioner of Commonwealth Police,  Mr Davis,  advised the Attorney-General that, frustrated in that ambition by security precautions which were taken and were obvious to us all, the terrorists might make an alternative attempt on the life of the Australian Prime Minister or other Ministers of the Government. The unanimous opinion of the federal law enforcement authorities was that it was unsafe for the Australian Prime Minister to walk through the Port Kembla steelworks of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd on Wednesday last. In this situation, we make no apology for any steps which the Attorney-General took last week to ensure that the intentions of violent terrorists were thwarted. Those who take the view that those precautions were unnecessary because nothing happened are indulging in a twisted form of logic. Toleration of terrorism in this country is over. Whatever we import from the rest of the world we do not need terrorism. This government is determined that terrorism in Australia will be stamped out. I present the following paper: 
Croatian Terrorism - Ministerial Statement, 27th March 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Snedden)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The matter is under review. 
Yes, I think every honourable member would be aware of the extent of restrictive trade practices throughout Australia, and, yes, I am also aware of the complaints made by  Mr Watts  because they were brought to my attention by the honourable member for Shortland. I have had the opportunity of seeing the correspondence on this matter. I certainly will ensure that action is taken. I shall draw the matter to the attention of the Attorney-General in another place so that he can take appropriate action. As to the last part of the honourable member's question, the Government does intend to introduce strengthened legislation dealing with restrictive trade practices. Australia would be one of the few countries in the world with effective legislation in this field. The countries with most experience in this area would be the United States, Canada and Britain. I can inform the House that the Attorney-General has made arrangements for experts in the field, who can draw on their American experience, to come to this country to give the Australian Government the benefit of their expertise and experience in the preparation of new legislation. 
We were not impressed with the amendments proposed by 'the previous Government at the end of the last Parliament. We favour instead a strengthened and up to date Australian Industries Preservation Act. Honourable members may recall the remarks of  Mr Hughes  who, when he was Attorney-General, reminded everyone of the healthy distaste that the old common law had for practices in restraint of trade and said that politicians could well be reminded of this healthy distaste and have it reflected in their legislation. The Government intends to give effect to it. 
My attention has been drawn to the papers. In fact, I adverted to them in this House yesterday, and as soon as copies are collated and made available I will be presenting them to this House. The question of the discretionary role of an AttorneyGeneral, the chief law officer of the Crown, in deciding whether to prosecute or not to prosecute is sometimes a difficult one. That must be said. But I do not think there can be any doubt that if the discretion is exercised on the basis of the proposition put forward by the honourable member it would  bi  exercised wrongly. 
The questioner. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The population growth rate in 1973 is expected to be about 9.3 per cent, that is, about 15,000 persons. 
About 3,530. 
(a) About 20 sites which will provide up to 490 residential units, (b) about 50 sites, which will provide up to 200 residential unite, (c) about 3,460. 
About 1,050. 
On present statistical averages, about 17,000. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Policies affecting the future of Government housing in the Australian Capital Territory are under review. 
There are no groups of houses specifically, designated for particular purposes. Houses are stockpiled from time to time to meet the needs of compulsory transferees. Allocations of houses to low income families are made from suitable houses which may be available at the time. 
With reference to the statement made on behalf of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  2 days ago about certain documents, I present copies of those documents from the files of the Attorney-General's Department, the Commonwealth Police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation relating to Croatian terrorist activities in Australia. I ask for leave of the House to move a motion to authorise publication of the papers. 
I will be very short in my remarks because I realise that time is at a premium. May I add my few words of congratulation to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and commend him for bringing this matter forward. I take some pleasure in the fact that it can be facilitated in this way. I have thought for some considerable time that the procedures of the Parliament should be televised. I have been prompted in that by the fact that I have not been in the Parliament for so long that I can forget the first experience that the honourable member for Bradfield described, that is, the feeling that you are speaking to yourself in this place and not really persuading anyone. It is a most unusual experience and one that strikes every new member. With television one would have the opportunity to try to communicate with and influence people in their homes throughout the whole of Australia. 
May I add the thought that I would hope that when the procedures are introduced, as I hope they will be, they will take in the committee system that is now developing rapidly in the 2 Houses because there is a lot of ignorance outside this place in regard to the work done by parliamentarians. Members of the public come to this place and when they look down from the public gallery and see an almost empty House they wonder where we all are. I have even had the experience of being telephoned in my office in this Parliament by a constituent asking me: 'Where are you? Why are you not in the House?' I had a bundle of files that you could not jump over. But that is something which people are not aware of. When members are in committees working hard, I think they should be seen to be there. In other words, I suggest that a television coverage could take into account the committee system. I refer to committees such as the Public Works Committee, the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory and indeed the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory when it comes into existence. This would enable the people to know the way in which the politicians work and the work that they do. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Original question, as amended, resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend the operation of the Australian Capital Territory Evidence (Temporary Provisions) Act 1971- 1972. The Evidence Ordinance 1971 of the Australian Capital Territory was disallowed by the Senate in August 1971, on the ground that it contained important new provisions which should be open to scrutiny and debate in the Parliament. The disallowance was considered to have left the Australian Capital Territory without important substantive rules of evidence, and the Evidence (Australian Capital Territory) Bill 1972 was subsequently introduced in the Senate in terms substantially similar to those of the ordinance. The Bill was referred for consideration by the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, which had not completed its consideration of the Bill before the elections last year. 
In the meantime, in order to preserve in force the provisions of the disallowed ordinance while the new substantive Act was being considered, Parliament enacted the Australian Capital Territory Evidence (Temporary Provisions) Act 1971 and 1972, which kept the provisions of the ordinance in force until 31st March 1973. The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  is considering introducing legislation to establish a Federal code of evidence which would apply in both the 
Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. To enable this legislation to be prepared, the present Bill will extend the existing temporary arrangement. The existing legislation sets a terminal date for the temporary arrangement, but the present Bill contains no terminal date. This gives effect to an amendment moved by the Opposition in the Senate. The Government does not dispute the amendment because it has the advantage of rendering unnecessary any further amendment to the Temporary Provisions Act in the event that the proposed code could not be made operative by a particular date. I commend the Bill to the House. (Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith). 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
I should like to say a few words in reply to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  It is true that the procedures that have been followed in this Bill and the original ordinance are not calculated to indicate the greatest degree of efficiency in the law making processes as they relate to the Australian Capital Territory. I think that many people would express concern - as, indeed, I do. One must realise that the initiative and support for the ordinance being disallowed in the Senate back in August 1971 came from all sectors of that House. I cannot quote the majority that supported the disallowance, but the general feeling was that a major step forward, as this undoubtedly was, in respect of the law of evidence, was such an involved piece of legislation - involving controversial questions even of philosophy as well as of the admission of evidence, confessions, statements, documentary evidence and other questions to which the honourable member for Parramatta referred - that there should be proper debate on the matter. 
The honourable member for Parramatta referred to Professor Cross. I have a passage from Cross that might strike a note with the honourable member. In the Australian edition of 'Cross on Evidence' which stated the law as at January 1970, the learned author said: 
When work began on this edition-- 
That would have been several years, perhaps many years, before January 1970- it was hoped that there would be a uniform Evidence Act for the Australian States and Territories, which would have greatly facilitated my task. Although that project has not yet come to fruition, I hope that this edition will help towards uniformity in the principles, if not the statutes, of the Australian law of evidence. 
As we know, we still are a long way from that; but, as I mentioned in my second reading speech, the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  is pressing on with that project and we can hope to see it in the not too distant future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
Yes, my attention has been drawn to the matter. It was drawn to it by the honourable member for Hawker who is well known for his concern about matters of this sort and his long-standing interest in them. The reports suggest that about $20m was raised by this group of companies, or some of them, and that something approaching $20m was lost over a period. Of course, when one hears of these reports and one sees them apparently substantially confirmed one has to bear in mind that the money is never lost. In large measure it goes somewhere. In large measure it goes to people who do not deserve it and should not have it and it goes at the cost of people who should have it and are suffering as a result of these types of activities. In large measure I think it also has to be said that this type of behaviour, where it occurs and where it is observed, is a consequence of 23 years of a style of government that allowed this country to have a system of taxation that permits it and encourages it. It is also a consequence of a lack of uniform companies legislation, or any companies legislation with teeth that could stop it and the nonexistence in this country of securities and exchange type legislation and a securities and exchange commission. This Government is determined to remedy those defects at the earliest opportunity. I will do what the honourable member for Hawker has suggested. I will bring the matter to the attention of the Attorney-General and see what can be done about it as a matter of urgency. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Labor Opposition always supported a general proposal for constitutional reform in the Northern Territory. At theclose of the last Parliament the previous Government's proposals for constitutional reform in the Northern Territory were being considered by the Legislative Council. The Legislative Council has since . sought the present Government's attitude to administrative and constitutional reform for the Northern Territory and there have been several discussions between members of the Legislative Council and myself. I have also suggested the possibility of establishing a Joint Parliamentary Committee to involve Parliament in issues affecting: the Territory. The question of the control of urban land is under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although I have not ridden in a taxi recently, I have ridden in taxis. May I thank the honourable member for expressing the concern that I think is implicit in his question because what he raises is a subject for concern. It is nice to think that this concern can come from the Opposition ranks. It is my understanding that taxi plates are now fetching an average of $22,000 or $23,000 in the Australian Capital Territory. I heard a report of a price paid - perhaps this was the asking price - of about $25,000. There are approximately 80 taxis operating in Canberra. If one does some simple arithmetic one can calculate that about $2m is invested in taxis in Canberra. One can relate that fact to the criticism that is often levelled at governments that they should try to create proper public transport systems. It is always said that one cannot do this because it would be too expensive. I believe that we should all bear. in mind that the community pays in a different way for a privately operated public transport system. If $2m is tied up in a privately taxi service made up of 80 taxis, something is wrong. 
That is right. I will have something more to say about that. Under the previous Government - and I come back time and time again to this - taxi plates were allocated free of charge. These plates are distributed on application. If there is more than one applicant the allocation is determined by ballot. That means that after a short period of time the person who has a taxi plate has something to sell worth $25,000. I think that that idea gives offence and that this was implicit in the question asked by the honourable member. No-one denies anyone a wind fall or a bit of luck; but, when it ls being paid for by the community in the way in which a system such as this makes the community pay, it gives offence and it is time that something was done to stop it. 
The system of taxi plates which has been encouraged in the Australian Capital Territory operates in other areas. If the honourable member and the House will bear with me on this matter, I am minded to say that it operates in Canberra's milk distributing system, where vendors, who are operating on a part-time basis and running 2 or 3 jobs, put themselves into hock to finance companies and are obliged to pay high rates of interest trying to create for themselves something which they like to call 'goodwill' but which is not really goodwill, much as the premium for a taxi plate is something that could be called goodwill. But, in the long run, the community pays and there is created a system, whether it be for transport services or milk distribution services, which is fragile, which does not work, which breaks down immediately it is subjected to any sort of pressure and which requires a comprehensive and unwieldy system of control. I have told my Department that I want a full report on why we should not employ people to drive taxis, as we employ people to drive buses and Commonwealth cars, and in that way achieve a better result. But I agree with the honourable member that the system is in urgent need of review, and I am indebted to him for raising the matter. 
 I will not speak for too long in view of the unanimous feeling amongst honourable members that the proposition should be supported. Perhaps the extent to which this House has plenary powers over the Commonwealth Territories is not widely known. It exercises not only the powers that are normally attributed to the national Parliament but also those attributed to the State governments and local governments. As the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  said, it is true that the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory has enjoyed an unusually high reputation. It is an extremely efficient Committee. I think that everyone who serves on it or who has served on it has enjoyed the experience. I was a member of the Committee for only  2i  years but it was an experience I value enormously, partly because on that Committee the party spirit that so bedevils this chamber on occasions - we saw it this morning - seems to be largely missing and this produces a greater sense of reward. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  foreshadowed a possible amendment to be moved in the Senate. It was my understanding that it would be moved  here. 1 am pleased that it was not moved here and may possibly be moved in the Senate. The amendment relates to only one aspect of the proposal, and that is that the  chairman  of the Committee shall be nominated by the Prime Minister. That seems to me to be a distinction without a difference. In doing it this way we gave effect to what we understood to be a long standing tradition amongst the joint committees to which at this stage the Australian Capital Territory Committee was somewhat of an exception. It was in the interests of consistency that the proposal was made. It was to bring this Committee more into line with the other committees and also in recognition of the fact that, whereas under the old system the Senate had a majority representation and as a result a Government senator became the  chairman,  there is now general agreement that the Senate, through its developed committee system, is overworked and there is a great shortage of time for senators to serve on committees. 
The thought appealed to the Government that, as the Government now operates out of the House of Representatives in the manner in which it does, the majority should be here. I did not hear any disagreement with that proposal. Indeed, the honourable member for Parramatta did not disagree at all that the  chairman  should be a Government member. We took the view on the basis that the  chairman  should be someone nominated by the Prime Minister. Of course, we took account of the fact that there is a longstanding tradition in committees that the chairmen be nominated by the Prime Minister. We all know how the parties work in their party rooms. They elect their members to serve on these committees. I suggest it would be obvious to anyone that the Prime Minister would almost certainly give effect to the majority wishes of the members of the Committee. So, as I say, it is really a distinction without a difference. 
I thank honourable members for what they have said. May I finish on a note which has already been mentioned by the honourable member for Canning, that in the past one feature of the Committee has been the enthusiasm and the dedication of the officers who serve the Committee - the officers of this place. I commend them for it and I am sure that it will continue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think it can be said that there is almost unanimous support for this measure which provides for the setting up of a Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. The message running through some speeches is that some honourable members have misgivings about some formal aspects of the Committee, but I did not detect any reservations about the importance of it. I regard it as an extremely important and valuable step forward. The Government already has taken some steps to improve the relationship that should exist between the National Parliament and the Northern Territory. This has been touched on by some speakers. The Government based the new Department of the Northern Territory in the Northern Territory, in part to overcome the criticism that existed under the previous Government that the administration was Canberra based and that Canberra obviously was a long way from Alice Springs, Darwin, Katherine, Gove and elsewhere in the Northern Territory. I do not think anyone would argue that that was not an extremely popular and good step. 
The Government also looked at the 6 official members of the Legislative Council and, against the backdrop that it thought the Northern Territory should have a much greater degree of attention than it has been given before, the Government decided that rather than have the 6 official members from the Department of the Northern Territory, and as the new approach is specialisation with special attention being given to health, education and Aboriginal welfare, that each of those specialised departments should be represented on the Legislative Council. This, I believe, is a great step forward. 
I turn now to two of the points in respect of which some misgivings were expressed, although not with any great degree of force. The first misgivings were expressed by the honourable members for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  and Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  about the decision to give to the Prime Minister the right to nominate one of the Government appointees to the Committee as  chairman  of the Committee. This decision has been taken in accordance with research and advice that I caused to be undertaken. It is my understanding that this is a practice that was initiated by the previous Government in respect of select committees. Although the standing committees and statutory committees elect their chairmen, for committees like the proposed committees for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory the practice was different. My information from the Clerks and the advice that I have gathered in the Parliament are that what is now proposed has been the practice. That is why this proposal has been incorporated in this measure. I should add that when the honourable member for Wake field suggested that it might lead to some kind of patronage it was obvious that he did not know how the Labor Party worked. 
I cannot speak of how the Liberal Party acts within its Party room but I can tell the honourable member that the Labor Party Caucus will elect its members to the Committee. The longstanding practice has been that members will nominate the persons they would like to see as  chairman  and the Prime Minister will be brought in in a consultative fashion to make the appointment, but he is apprised of the opinion of members. This is only giving effect to what in other quarters would be called a constitutional convention. The honourable members' reservations speak really of a distinction without a difference. The Government is seeking only to regularise what ] understand was a practice introduced by the previous Government, and in the interests of consistency the Government has proposed this measure. Personally I think it is a good step. If it was the practice - my advice is that it was - I congratulate the previous Government for having implemented it when it did. The other point concerns the subject of the amendment which the Government cannot accept and which was touched on by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder). 
Well, moved it, touched on it, described it and debated it. The amendment deals with what is sometimes called autonomy, sometimes territorial government, sometimes responsible territorial government and sometimes, as the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  called it, regional government. It goes by different names. There are various ways in which this can be brought about. Some honourable members referred to fragmentation. They spoke of fragmentation in the context of the area known as the Northern Territory now being the subject of these specialised departments - Education, Health, Aboriginal Affairs, Minerals and Energy - with the extremely important co-ordinating role with the Department of the Capital Territory with its other areas of concern as well. Some people say this is fragmentation; I regard it as specialisation and not fragmentation. If one sees it against the backdrop of Australian government as a whole, one sees it in the sense of the constitutional framework and one must ask oneself what should be the relationship between the Australian Government - this Parliament where we stand now and talk - and the various parts of Australia. Historically we have States. I venture to suggest that if we could go back to the conventions of the 1890s no-one would support an . Australian federation such as we have today. People would argue with great force, conviction and persuasion that the present federal system with its States is fragmentation of the worst kind. H is terrible fragmentation and it holds back the progress of this country. 
The question arises: What relationship should exist between the Territories of Australia and the Australian Parliament and Government? Should the Northern Territory be a State in the sense in which we have States today? The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  spoke as though it should be. Indeed, he said he looked forward to the day when it would be the seventh State. On the occasions I have been to the Northern Territory in the past I have said that I would regard that as a disaster. A better relationship is open to us. A much better way is open to us whereby we can satisfy the natural yearnings and proper demands of the people who live in a far flung area - the Northern Territory - with all its problems of vastness, which were so properly described by the honourable member for the Northern Territory, and remoteness from the Australian Government in Canberra. This can be done in a variety of ways and it is partly for this reason that the Government cannot accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for the Northern Territory. It is not good enough and it does not go far enough. It does not touch on any of the possibilities that are opened up for a new kind of relationship that will satisfy this proper and legitimate yearning of people who live in these areas to have a say in their own affairs, to participate in decisions which affect them, to be involved in them and to feel that they are not ignored by a government 2,000 miles away. (Quorum formed) This new relationship will avoid the disadvantages of the relationship that exists between the Australian Government and the States. Let us look at one of the most powerful States and ask ourselves: Do we want the Northern Territory to move in that direction? Look at one of the richest States, New South Wales. It cannot provide sewerage for the people in the outer suburbs of Sydney, cannot really run its own railway service, cannot really run its own public transport system. That is the way the Federal system has operated in the past. Given the rigidity of our Constitution, in co-operation with the States we are engaged in an effort to overcome those disadvantages which exist in the Australian federal system. But there is no reason in the world why we should foist those disadvantages on the people of the Northern Territory and there is no reason why we should foist them in that form on the people of the Australian Capital Territory. 
I have not much time left to speak but I want to touch on a point referred to by the honourable member for the Northern Territory. There have been discussions between representatives of the Legislative Council and me on at least 2 occasions. I have met its various committees and only 2 days ago I wrote to the  President  of the Legislative Council,  Mr Greatorex,  suggesting that I meet the Council at its convenience and my convenience as soon as possible. So there is no real conflict between us. This Committee is a great step forward. It can look into the subject which the honourable member for the Northern Territory has raised in his amendment. There are other competing subjects into which it can look. But if it is to do anything in the sense of giving the Northern Territory autonomy then the Government's view is that the amendment moved by the honourable member does not go far enough, is not good enough, ties the Committee to an outmoded form and is so wide that the Committee would not know what it was required to do. This Committee is a great opportunity to take a step toward the advancement of the Northern Territory and the people who live there. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Mr Calder's  amendment) be so added. 
 The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has priorities that are quite different from mine and quite different from those of this Government. He deliberately and expressly spells out that in his scale of values terrorist activities in this country do not rate very high. We heard him say it here today. I heard him say it here today clearly, and I put it to him in the middle of his speech- (Opposition members interjecting) - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Interjections are disorderly and I ask honourable members to respect the Standing Orders of the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A number of discussions have already taken place and action has been taken with the Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs, Tourism and Recreation, Environment and Conservation, Works and the Treasurer to consider an interdepartmental meeting to discuss the future of the Ayers Rock-Mt Olga National Park. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Except for a group of people on very low incomes who receive rebated rents, all tenants pay the rent as calculated by application of an economic rental formula approved by the Government in 1961. 
The 1961 rental formula includes components for recovery of 80 per cent of construction costs, full maintenance, administration and insurance expenditure and general rates. 
Rentals range from $3.05 to $23.20 a week. Rebated rents can be as low as $1.96 a week. 
At 12th March 1973 there were 2,340 houses with rents less than $10 a week, 8,296 with rents less than $20 a week and 17 with rents more than $20 a week. 
Yes, I am aware of the recent publicity dealing with this problem, which is being given increasing attention. Many of the national newspapers are giving increased space to it. The report to which the honourable member referred is loosely known as the Molomby Report, which resulted from work done at the University of Adelaide. The recently held Australian Finance Conference dealt with the same problem. I think it has to be said that Australian laws on credit come into 2 categories. One is the matter of credit control from the community point of view generally. Another is from the point of view of the protection of the consumer. In recent years much greater attention has been given to the protection of the consumer and the great need for it. Australian laws are fragmented in this regard. We have mortgages, bills of sale, hire purchase agreements. It is becoming increasingly well known that these agreements do not give proper protection. The leading State in the pioneering of reform work in this field is South Australia, under a Labor Government. There can be little doubt about that. I have already arranged for one of my officers to visit South Australia and familiarise himself with the achievements that have been brought about there. Discussions have taken place between myself and the Attorney-General on this subject in regard to the Territories. I hope that we will be able to produce something on this matter in the near future. As the honourable member would know, multi-national corporations pose greater problems and their position has to be seen in a wider context, but this aspect is also under consideration by the Government. 
It would be difficult to bring the subject of this debate back on to the rails but might I try. One cannot blame the Opposition speakers for bringing politics into the debate and hammering the line, but let us look at the issue as it was put by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  It was a complaint about the Government's failure to assert and protect the rights of Australian citizens in Yugoslavia. That is the gist of it. We have heard what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said. The Parliament has the facts. Of course, notwithstanding what the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  put - I tried to correct him by interjection - we did send a protest note to the Government of Yugoslavia when we discovered what had happened. Compare that action with the total failure of the previous Government, which knew all those facts at the time and did nothing. 
The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  gave an historical account of the matter which revealed the consistent policies of the previous Government to downgrade the Australian national identity, to downgrade Australian nationalism. There were some exceptions. The honourable member for Moreton was one and the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who has just left the chamber, was another. There were mutterings from one or two of the members of the previous Government about the need to assert an Australian identity. But can we blame any foreign power which in the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party rule did not take Australia seriously, which looked at us masquerading under the image of another country, with a royal style and title that was confusing, a flag that was confusing and a national anthem that belonged to another country? Just reflect on the way this country has appeared to the world for 23 years and reflect on the changes that have come in the last 5 months, changes brought about by this Government in expressing and projecting a firm and positive national, patriotic image abroad. Reflect on the changes that the Minister for Immigration has brought about. Once they are understood they will never lead to a situation such as that which the previous Government allowed to come about. 
Let us come back to some of the facts. We know, and the former Government when in office knew, that in June of last year an incursion into Yugoslavia had taken place. In September the former Government knew or believed, because it was told, that people, 6 who had lived here. 3 who had been naturalised, had been destroyed - I think that was the word. It did nothing. I have heard no one on the Opposition side even put forward anything the previous Government did. If honourable members opposite analyse their speeches they will find that there is not a suggestion anywhere of what the previous Government did, because they know in their minds that they did nothing. They did not even find out or try to find out the names of the next of kin, and that is the way the record stands. Reflect on that for the moment. The previous Government believed that these people had been wiped out or destroyed. Honourable members opposite now, with a voice that reeks of hypocrisy, say that we should do something more than we have done. We are a government that has been in power in reality for only about 5 months. Everything this Government has done has been to assert itself. I remind the House that one of the Prime Minister's first acts towards one of this country's most friendly international neighbours was to deliver a strong note of protest to the  President  of the United States of America. We sent a strong note of protest to the Yugoslav Government once we knew what the facts or some of the facts were, followed up with the notes which the Prime Minister read out in the chamber and the letters about the other 10 people. There has been a constant, persistent attempt to get the facts - something which honourable members opposite never did and never even tried to do. 
Some reference was made to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  He might like to hear it. The Prime Minister referred to correspondence in which the honourable member, then arguing for the previous Government, said: 'Don't bother. Don't try,' T am paraphrasing a little, but this is the gist of it, as the honourable gentleman will remember. He said: 'Because of certain suggestions' - one was the aide-memoire that had been received from the Yugoslav Government at the time - 'it might not be appropriate to make a protest. There is little merit in protesting.' This is the gist of what the honourable gentleman was advising the then Attorney-General. He said: 'Don't protest'. I remind him - and he was one of the most senior Ministers in the then Government - of a statement he was reported as having made in Washington. I cannot quote the precise words but I believe it was consistent with this: 'Australia is an insignificant country; we should not take ourselves too seriously'. The honourable gentleman might be writing it down now but I cannot quote his exact words. That is the way it went forth to the world, and no correction was made by the honourable gentleman at the time, as I recall. 
There is a thread, a pattern running through all those actions, all those steps or lack of steps by the previous Government, compared with what the present Government has been doing and all the initiatives coming from the Prime Minister and all the initiatives coming from the Minister for Immigration, about which 1 have spoken. If one analyses the speeches and disregards those of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the right honourable member for Higgins, one comes to the honourable member for Moreton who spoke extremely well, as only a magnificent advocate can speak. But when he was asked what he would have this Government do. lowering his voice he said: Perhaps get on the telephone. Perhaps do not accept the invitation, presumably to be issued some time in the future, to visit that country.* That is the level to which the honourable gentleman has brought his whole charge. At this stage it is just a matter of sending protest notes at the diplomatic level through the Australian Ambassador in Belgrade. The honourable gentleman suggests seriously that all that can be done to back up his serious charge is that the Prime Minister should get on the telephone or perhaps not accept the offer of a trip which will presumably take place at some stage in the future. That is the real level to which this debate has sunk. 
I think it was the right honourable member for Higgins who said that we should take a more drastic step and break off diplomatic relations. Apart from the histrionics, what good would that do? The Opposition says that the Government should be doing more than it is doing. The former Government did nothing. We are told that we should be communicating with the Yugoslav Government and then in the next breath honourable members opposite say: Break off diplomatic relations with the Yugoslav Government. Do not communicate with it'. How on earth do we communicate with the Yugoslav Government unless we have diplomatic relations with it? Whom should we telephone then7 To whom should we send protest notes then? How do we have an ambassador there who is effective and who can bring about relationships with the Yugoslav Government? 
There is only one final comment that I think should be made about the matter of public importance. It is a matter of public Importance that people who are Australian citizens have been killed overseas in these circumstances, but the rest of the charges made by the honourable member for Moreton concerning the subordination of the Australian Government's obligations to assert and protect the rights of its citizens overseas are appropriate and apt only in relation to the conduct, the reputation and behaviour of the previous Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As indicated in the revised Administrative Arrangements Order, the principal matters dealt with by the Department of the Northern Territory are those relating to the administration of the Northern Territory of Australia and the Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands. 
Subject to the exceptions shown below, these include the Head Office activities associated with policy and executive direction which were the responsibility of the Canberra based Northern Territory Divisions of the former Department -of the Interior together with those functions which were the responsibility of the former Northern Territory Administration. 
The exceptions are: the development and implementation of policies for the advancement and welfare including education of the Aboriginal people in the Territory; land surveys; acquisition, leasing and management of land and property on behalf of the Australian Government and administrative servicing of the Northern Territory Police Force. 
The responsibility extends to close liaison with all other Departments having a responsibility in the Northern Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On5th April 1973 the Government announced the intention to establish a Statutory Authority to arrange the development andlong term management of the proposed Belconnen Retail Mall in the Australian Capital Territory. 
No, I have not received any complaints. The few comments I have heard have been very favourable. It is significant to note that the tent that has been erected bears a sign declaring it to be a women's embassy. The House will remember the last embassy on the lawns - the Aboriginal embassy - which was so brutally dispersed by this Opposition when its members were in power. I suppose I can add as part of my answer that personally I am glad that they are not in power now - otherwise the women's embassy would probably be dispersed in like manner. There is some significance, I suppose, in the decision of the ladies to be there and to spend last night there in a temperature that fell to about 8 degrees Celsius, together with a lot of rain. A 75-year-old lady whom I know was there at half-past 8 this morning. These are the significant factors. May I add that there is significance in their choice of a women's embassy because there is oppression against women in this community. Women who are aware of social issues like the abortion issue and who know that this issue and other issues that fundamentally concern them are going to be decided in this House of men do feel oppressed. Women who are aware of social issues and who like to think that they should be treated with full civilian rights and have opportunities available to them in much the same way as you gentlemen have opportunities available to you feel oppressed and discriminated against. There is considerable significance in this. Finally, I have no intention of taking any action. 
In the case of the Australian Capital Territory the offence carries, I think, a liability for 10 years imprisonment. In the case of the Northern Territory the liability is for life imprisonment with, I think, hard labour. 
I thank you for the call,  Mr Speaker.  I will keep my remarks short because I know that other honourable members wish to be heard and I am mindful of your own thoughts in that regard. I have no prepared speech to make. I will adopt what I sense was the method of presentation adopted by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and not be so much an advocate* for the cause- which I accept or believe - but rather try to describe the problem as I see it. Indeed, I have been identified, I believe, with this issue for some time and I can only repeat things that I have said before and which probably are well known. 
1 should like to put some opening remarks as part of the backdrop of the scene as I see it. I would urge upon honourable members the view that we live in a pluralist society. It is a society that should, as it is developing, place a high emphasis on tolerance and accept divergent points of view in the community. As far as is possible people with one point of view should not insist that their points of view be followed and accepted by other people. One group should not have to live by the standards of another. It seems to me that this debate highlights that issue. I should also like to put another thought which goes back to the 19th century in British philosophical thinking and criminology thinking. I refer to the thoughts of Jeremy Bentham, the school of utilitarianism, Picaria in Italy, Mill and Romilly - that school which led to the great reforms of the 19th century in the United Kingdom. This is the school of thought that started with the proposition that all criminal law on the face of it is bad and can be justified only if it seeks to overcome a social evil. In other words, put in different ways, they said one legislates to achieve the greatest good for the greatest number. It was utility they sought to bring about in their somewhat primitive attempts at scientific legislation. If one applies those tests here one sees the existing law as being criminal. 
In answer to a question from an honourable member the other day I said that it was remarkable that a criminal offence could bring 10 years imprisonment in the Australian Capital Territory and a life sentence in the Northern Territory. Those are maximum terms of course. The laws are unenforceable. What social cost does society pay for having these unenforceable laws on its statute book? The honourable member for Casey talked about 120,000 people who might be aborted every year. I do not think anyone knows the precise number. It is often said that the number is 100,000 while some say it is lower. It depends on which side of the fence one sits. If one is trying to make a good case for one side of the argument one puts the figure high, for the other side one puts the figure low. This is the difficulty of the situation. I am sure that every honourable member here has known women who at some stage in their life have found themselves in the situation of considering abortion. I am sure every honourable member has known women who have decided to have an abortion and some who could not have one perhaps because of fear. Many honourable members would know the social cost in terms of neuroses when women for one reason or another do not have an abortion. Perhaps it is because of fear of the consequences and the pain and suffering they would undergo. 
We also know in terms of social cost what this unenforceable law produces in the form of pressure on policemen who are called upon to enforce what is an unenforceable law. Those honourable members who have had experience with the law must know this. We have seen it referred to in the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Victorian police force. One honourable member referred earlier to the corruption in high places in the Victoria police force which can result from the temptations and the pressures that this sort of law places upon police officers. Anyone who has had experience of the New South Wales police courts knows that this occurs in New South Wales. I do not want it to occur in the courts of the Australian Capital Territory as the Territory grows bigger. So there is that sort of cost. There is also the inequality of the present system. A woman who is educated, who can gain access to good advice through a sympathetic doctor, coupled with financial means, who can shop around for the right doctor can have an abortion or, if you like, terminate her pregnancy or procure a miscarriage. It can be done. She can fly to Japan if she wants to do so or to the United States of America. 
Or Hong Kong, I am reminded by an honourable member. The poor woman who is not so well informed and who does not have the money, cannot do any of these things and worries herself sick as does the man who is involved with her, and her parents and her family. The present situation works in that way. This Bill seeks to do away with that. The sentiments I am expressing have already been reflected in different ways by the United States Supreme Court which in, I think, a 5 to 2 majority decision - this kind of issue reflects a divided community - brought down a 3 part decision on how this problem should be treated, in much the same way as this Bill seeks to do, firstly, on request up to a certain number of weeks; after that a second period because a degree of viability has been achieved and in that case a different and more difficult test has to be satisfied; and after that a much more difficult test to satisfy. It seems to me that that accords eminently with common sense for those people who do not accept that it is murder. I accept that there are people in the community who do think in that way. I do not, and I feel confident that a lot of honourable members on both sides of this House also do not feel that it is murder. It is a dishonest argument to suggest that it is murder. It brings emotion into the debate and into the argument. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has been called a murderer. I have been called a murderer. What sort of argument is that? 
I am mindful of your caveat on time,  Mr Speaker,  but I come back to the fundamental issue which I do not think any of us is prepared to accept at this stage - what can be loosely called the civil liberties issue. If a responsible woman, accepting that we live in a pluralist society, wants to have a pregnancy terminated at an early stage why on earth should she not have it done? Is she not the best judge? If she is forced to carry the child because of some specious argument that it can be adopted out, what sort of penalty is that to impose on her, that she has to carry this foetus, to use a word, until it becomes viable and is born and then give it to someone else? What sort of a penalty does that place on her to make her do that? Why on earth should she not be allowed to terminate the pregnancy at some reasonable time? Yet the level of the debate that has been waged in the community is such that abortion on request, which should be the simplest, most honest, cleanest and best way to describe the situation, has been made into a dirty expression as though it were a crime. We insist that she go to a psychiatrist. We know the figures in this respect in the Australian Capital Territory. I think 70 per cent of abortions are done on psychiatric evidence. A woman can complain of a few headaches and things like that and if she has a sympathetic psychiatrist the abortion can be done with assistance and sympathy. There is a double standard all the time. 
There is a sign on the lawns across the way belonging to one of the groups - I can imagine which one it is - which says: 'You don't need a psychiatrist to have a vasectomy'. Is that not a reminder of what the honourable member for Bradfield said, that we sit here as men making decisions for women when there is not a woman amongst us? I accept the division of opinion in the community on this issue. However, surely we have reached the stage in a pluralist society - I am using that word in the best sense - involving tolerance of different points of view, a society in which those who take a different view should not force their view on people who support abortion on request or the liberalisation of abortion laws. I am not opposed to the inquiry. It is probably a good idea. I do not see it as in any way an excuse. I support the Bill. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Environmental Fact Finding Studies, the cost of which is shared by the mining companies and the Government, is still proceeding as originally planned. 
No reports of vandalism in this area have been received since rangers began making regular patrols at the commencement of the dry season last year. 
No. However, the need for additional rangers is constantly under review. 
The teams carrying out the fact finding studies are expected to complete their work and to submit reports during September 1973. These will then be co-ordinated and a full report is expected by the end of December 1973. This report will be made public. 
In the meantime, all steps are being taken to have the flora, fauna, artwork and scenery adequately protected. 
The report has been considered. A number of reports on that subject have been made known in recent years. The Australian National University has been very prominent in the field through Professor Whitmore, as has  Mr Justice  Kerr of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. The whole matter is under consideration. It is part of our policy, if I may put it that way, that an ombudsman be brought into being to take care of the difficulties that arise from administrative decisions which can have such an enormous effect on the lives of people generally and in particular of people Mho live in cities like Canberra which have such a high component of decisions made by the Public Service. It is obviously an area of increasing concern. It is a challenging area and is high on the Government's list of priorities. 
The matter has not been considered by Cabinet yet. The AttorneyGeneral is, of course, overseas. It is my understanding that he is hopeful of having legislation introduced into the Senate soon after his return. He is hoping, and I am hoping, that it will be considered by Cabinet in time for that to be done. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The grant of a public lending right to Australian authors is part of the policy of the Government. The means by which this might be done is under examination in my Department. The matter has also been referred to the Literature Board of the Australian Council for the Arts to study. The Literature Board has established a committee under the chairmanship of Professor Geoffrey Blainey to examine the matter. 
Yes, certain decisions have been taken along the lines suggested by the honourable member in his question. Honourable members would know that in courts of petty sessions throughout Australia it has been a long standing practice to have the prosecuting work done by members of the police force. That is a practice which has often been criticised because it tends to suggest that the courts are not independent but rather police courts, as they were once known many years ago in New South Wales. That practice has always been justified on the basis of cheapness. 
It is the view of the Attorney-General and the Government generally that the training and the work performed by policemen is far too important and specialised to allow some of them to spend their time just doing attendants work around the courts. The prosecuting role is primarily a matter for lawyers who have a more apparent independent role in the administration of justice. The decision has been taken that the police prosecuting section of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force should be incorporated into the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor's Office and cease to be a part of the police force. This will lead in time to the development of an independent type of prosecuting section there that will not be a part of the police force. Policemen are so often involved as witnesses and it sometimes gives rise to concern amongst litigants and accused persons. The other decision that has been taken is that police attendants should be replaced by court attendants who are sheriffs' officers in non police uniforms. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to repeal those provisions of the Crimes Act 1914-1966 which permit Australian citizens to be deported from Australia. The Bill gives effect to the policy of the Australian Labor Party that naturalised Australians are to be treated for all purposes as Australians and are not to be liable to deportation or cancellation of citizenship except for substantial fraud in application for citizenship. The Crimes Act contains a number of provisions under which the Attorney-General may order the deportation from Australia of a person not born in Australia. The provisions apply irrespective of whether the person against whom such an order is made is an Australian citizen or not. These provisions were inserted in the Crimes Act by the Bruce-Page Government in 1926. The Government has in recent weeks given a number of assurances that Australian citizens will not be deported. The Bill is the practical expression of those assurances. 
I turn now to the detailed provisions of the Bill. The first 3 clauses deal with formal matters or consequential amendments. The substantive provisions are clauses 4, 5 and 6. Clauses 4 and 5 amend sections of the principal Act which empower the Attorney-General to order the deportation of a person convicted of an offence against those sections in a case where that person was not born in Australia. Clause 6 of the Bill repeals a number of sections of the principal Act. Section 30l empowers the Attorney-General to. order the deportation of any person not born in Australia who is a member of a body of persons declared by the High Court or the Supreme Court of a State to be an unlawful association. The other sections to be repealed by clause 6 are machinery provisions relating to deportation under the Crimes Act. Clause 7 and the Schedule to the Bill make a number of amendments to the text of the principal Act to bring that text into conformity with current drafting practice. They do not involve any changes of substance in the principal Act. 
The provisions of the Migration Act relating to the deportation of aliens and persons who are in law regarded as migrants will continue to apply. Under the Migration Act a person may be deported only if he is a prohibited immigrant, he is an alien or a migrant who has been convicted of a serious offence or he is an alien or migrant whose conduct has been such that, in the opinion of the Minister for Immigration, he ought not to be allowed to remain in Australia. In this latter case, a person against whom a deportation order is to be made has a right of appeal to an independent commissioner and he may not be deported unless the commissioner considers that the ground on which the deportation is proposed to be made has been established. The passage of the Bill will also give effect to many representations that have been made over the years by migrant organisations in Australia. I am confident that the Bill will be supported on all sides of the House. I commend it to honourable members. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of Civil Aviation was signed for Australia on 12 October 1972. Following ratification by the tenth signatory State, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the convention came into force on 28 January 1973. This Bill together with some necessary amendments to the Extradition Acts, to which I shall refer later, will enable Australia to ratify the convention. 
The Montreal Convention is the third international convention in recent years dealing with the problem of the disruption of civil aviation by terrorism, hijacking, personal acts of violence and the destruction or interference with aviation facilities. The other related conventions are the Tokyo Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft, which was implemented by the Civil Aviation (Offenders on International Aircraft) Act 1970, and the Hague Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft implemented by the Crimes (Hijacking of Aircraft) Act 1972. 
Australia is one of the world's principal aviation nations and accordingly played its part in the formation of the Montreal Convention in 1971. The main purposes of the Bill are to approve ratification by Australia of the convention, to make provisions in Australia for the offences created by the convention, to provide the necessary procedures with respect to the detention and custody of offenders and for their prosecution. There is also provision for the holding of a preliminary inquiry into the facts relating to the offences, as provided by article 6 of the convention, the findings of which are, under the convention, to be reported to other interested parties. 
The offences created by the convention are enumerated in article I. As the English text of the convention its set out in the Schedule to the Bill i need not detail those offences. It is, I think, sufficient to say that sub-clause 7. (1) of the Bill, which creates the offences for Australia, has adopted the language of the convention in its entirety. 
At the same time, however, the opportunity has been taken to extend the scope of operation of the Bill beyond that of the convention, where the interests of Australia are considered to require that extension. Accordingly sub-clause 7. (2) of the Bill applies to offences committed by Australian citizens anywhere in the world and to offences involving either Australian Government or visiting government aircraft. The convention is, of course, confined to offences in relation to civil aviation only. 
Article 3 of the convention requires that the offences be made punishable by severe penalties of imprisonment for 14 years and vides that the 2 more serious offences carry penalties of imprisonment for 14 years and the other 3 offences penalties of imprisonment for 7 years. Those penalties are substantially the same as those provided in the Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963. 
The remaining provisions of the Bill create the necessary machinery for dealing with offenders. In view of the fact that the Montreal Convention is, except for the provisions creating the offences, identical in terms with the Hague Convention, the provisions of the present Bill are for all practical purposes the same as those of the Crimes (Hijacking of Aircraft) Act 1972. 
A further consequence of that identity of terms is that additional provisions will be required to implement the terms of article 8 which permits the use of the Montreal Convention as a basis for extradition in appropriate cases. Accordingly the earliest opportunity will be taken to introduce amendments to the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) and Extradition (Foreign States) Acts. The amendments will be very similar to the amendments made to those Acts last year for the purpose of implementing the Hague Convention. This Bill will enable Australia to take a further important step in the protection of aviation in Australia and elsewhere. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to reduce from 21 years to 18 years the age at which a person may marry without parental consent. Clause 3 of the Bill achieves this purpose by altering the definition of 'minor' for the purposes of the Marriage Act to mean a person who has not attained the age of 18 years. No doubt some honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when Leader of the Opposition, introduced a Bill for this and other purposes in 1968, and again in 1970. Regrettably, it did not reach the statute book. 
I believe that nobody could seriously dispute the fact that to-day's young men and women of 18, 19 and 20 are much more mature in every way than people of the same age were even 12 years ago when the present Marriage Act was passed. By any standards they are now entitled to be regarded as adults and to be given the rights and privileges as well as the duties and responsibilities which adulthood entails. There is a growing recognition of the need to accord these young adults the rights they are entitled to have. Thus, they can now vote at all Federal and at some State elections, and in a number of States they can make a will and freely enter into binding contracts. 
But in the important personal area of marriage they are still subject to this disability that they cannot marry the person of their choice without their parents' consent - or the approval of a court if their parents refuse consent. I am sure all honourable members will agree that the time has come to remove this disability. It has already been removed in England, where the relevant legislation was enacted in 1969 in accordance with the recommendations of a committee appointed by the Lord Chancellor to inquire into the age of majority. Such legislation was unnecessary in Scotland because minors over the age of 16 have never needed parental consent to marry in that country. 
The opportunity is also being taken in the Bill to make some other amendments to the Act, which are regarded as necessary or desirable in the light of the experience gained since the Act came into operation in 1961. These other amendments are for the most part of comparatively minor importance, and I can deal with them in Committee, if necessary. However, I would like to mention briefly one particular matter - the list of persons whose consents will be required to the marriage of a person under the age of 18 years. I should explain that while I have hitherto mentioned only parental consent, the consents of other persons may be needed in certain circumstances. 
The persons concerned and the circumstances in which their consents may be required are set out in the Schedule to the Act. Clause 13 of the Bill removes as far as possible the distinction between children born in wedlock and those born out of wedlock by substituting a new Part I in the Schedule to replace the existing Parts I and II, which deal with legitimate and illegitimate children respectively. There are 2 consequential changes of substance. The consent of a child's father who is not married to the mother will now be required where the father is living with the mother, and in cases where the parents are separated and the minor is living with him. I believe that, in addition to ending the legislative distinction between children born in and out of wedlock for the purpose of consent to marry, the new table will be more in keeping generally with modern requirements. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
 I rise to speak because of certain remarks concerning margarine which were conveyed to me and which I gather were made a little while ago by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson).  I regret that I was not in the House at the time the remarks were made. I was attending a meeting of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council. I left that meeting to come into the chamber. I do wish - if I put it this way with all fairness - that the honourable member had let me know that he intended to speak on this subject which is obviously of interest to me, on the adjournment debate tonight, so that I could have been here to hear him and perhaps to reply to him. My difficulty now is that I do not know what he said. I shall obtain the Hansard record of his speech in the morning and if the honourable member's remarks call for any reply  -  I do not know whether they do - 1 will take the first opportunity to reply to them. 
It seems to me implicit in the little I heard of the honourable member's speech, that there is confirmation of the long-standing attitude of the honourable members who belong to the Australian Country Party section of this Parliament in their determination to support one group of people in the country in apparent opposition to the interests of another group. In other words there is a divisiveness implicit in their attitude. It is well known what happened in Canberra as far as margarine is concerned. The Australian Agricultural Council met in February. It considered, amongst other things, the quota system of margarine production. In my view that quota system operates against the interests of the great majority of Australians who are consumers and who want a spread to put on their bread. In the interests of diversity of choice, maximising their freedom of choice as consumers and giving them a cheaper product when it is available, they should be able to buy what they wish. Perhaps more important than anything else it is a product that almost unanimously, from the point of view of medical opinion, is in the interests of their good health - polyunsaturated margarine. The quota system, it cannot be denied, operates against all those 3 purposes that should be fulfilled by any proper system of government. 
Yes, that is quite clear. At the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council I argued, as did others, for a revision of the system of margarine quotas. The Agricultural Council agreed that the Australian Capital Territory, which had never been considered before - and it was as a result of my having raised the matter that it was considered - would be entitled to produce 300 tons of margarine a year. I accepted that. The Australian Capital Territory will produce its 300 tons. I hope that subject to consultation and discussion with the Australian Agricultural Council, because that is the purpose of that Agricultural Council, in the not too distant future the quota system will give way to a better system which will allow the consumers of Australia to have access to the spread of their choice, whether it be butter or margarine, polyunsaturated or otherwise in the interests of their health, their pocket and their freedom as individuals. I hope that the quotas will not be imposed upon the consumers as they have been imposed in the past, by a government that was dependent almost entirely on support from a sectional political party basing its support almost entirely on sectional interests. 
The divisiveness which it seems to me is implicit in the sorts of remarks that I heard the honourable member saying, does not even take account of the people he claims to represent. There are rural industries in this country which depend upon ingredients produced by them to be used in the manufacture of margarine. So there is a shortsightedness in the approach of the Country Party no matter how one looks at it. I will not say any more at this stage except that when I have had a chance to look at the Hansard tomorrow. I may wish to say something else. But I shall certainly give the honourable member notice of my intention if I wish to say something further on the matter. 
I have been asked by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to indicate on his behalf in response to some remarks which I understand were made by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  that the whole question of import pricing has been referred to the Parliamentary Committee on Prices for its consideration. 
 I move: 
That the Bill  be now read a second time. 
The introduction of this Bill has become necessary because of legislation enacted by the Tasmanian Parliament which has the effect of changing the title of magistrates in that State from 'Stipendiary Magistrate' to 'Magistrate', and because of the decision of the Australian Government to change the name of the Gazette. Opportunity is taken in the Bill to clarify also some other expressions used in federal legislation. The part of the Bill dealing with references to magistrates in federal legislation will ensure that Tasmanian magistrates may continue to exercise federal jurisdiction and to perform other functions conferred on State magistrates under federal law. 
The Tasmanian Attorney-General, by arrangement with  Senator Greenwood,  the then Attorney-General, in November 1972 agreed to defer the bringing of the legislation into operation pending the enactment of necessary changes in federal law. A number of federal Acts confer jurisdiction or functions on persons who hold office as 'chief, stipendiary, police, resident or special magistrate' in a State. The Bill provides that, where in an Act reference is made to a stipendiary magistrate, the reference is to be read as including a reference to any magistrate in respect of whose office an annual salary is payable. The latter words will exclude justices of the peace who in some States may act as magistrates. This provision will apply not only to the Tasmanian situation but also to any future changes in a State in the designation of stipendiary magistrates. 
The Bill also contains a provision the purpose of which is to avoid the necessity, in future Acts, of referring to magistrates by the lengthy description to which I have referred. The Bill also contains provisions to give effect to the Government's intention to use, wherever possible, the term 'Australia' to signify the Australian nation. This involves adopting the name 'Australian Government Gazette' in place of the 'Commonwealth of Australia Gazette', the use of the imprint 'Government Printer of Australia' instead of 'Commonwealth Government Printer' on official documents, and the use of the term 'Australia' instead of 'Commonwealth' in legislation. 
Sitting suspended from  6.15  to  8  p.m. 
The Bill will also ensure that references in legislation to 'Australia' or to 'The Commonwealth', used in a geographical sense, do not include the external Territories. Existing legislation has consistently been drafted on the basis that the external Territories are not part of the Commonwealth* of Australia, but some judicial pronouncements in the High Court have thrown doubt on the correctness of that assumption. The provisions to give effect to these changes are contained in clauses 4 and 5 of the Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This short Bill is complementary to that part of the Acts Interpretation Bill that is concerned with the change of the name of the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette' to Australian Government Gazette'. It applies the present provision of the Acts Interpretation Act, that the mere production of a paper purporting to be the 'Commonwealth of Australian Gazette' shall in all courts be evidence that the paper is the 'Commonwealth of Australia Gazette' and was published on the day on which it bears date, also to the 'Gazette' when published under its new name 'The Australian Government Gazette'. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 16 May, 3 officers have transferred to Darwin from the former Canberra Northern Territory Divisions. 
There has been concern in the Northern Territory for some time about its penal establishments. There is certainly overcrowding at Fannie Bay Gaol where the facilities are quite bad. The Northern Territory Legislative Council, in about November of 1972, passed a resolution for the setting up of a committee of inquiry of that Council to investigate the whole subject. That committee has taken some steps and made some progress and is intending to visit, I think, each of the nation's capitals seeking expert advice in its task. A prison farm has .been set up at Gun Point, about 45 miles from Darwin, where the prisoners perform forestry work and open type work of that style. When I was in .the Northern Territory the time before last I made arrangements for one of Australia's leading authorities on criminology,  Mr Gordon  Hawkins, of the University of 'Sydney, to prepare a report. He will be well known to honourable members because he is a coauthor of that well known book The Honest Politician's Guide to Crime Control'. He and a  Mr Misenza,  who is also on the staff of the University of Sydney and was an Assistant Attorney-General of Oregon in the United States, have recently been engaged in preparing a report on the subject in the Northern Territory. I hope that in the not too distant future we will have a system appropriate to the conditions of that Territory that will be a model for the resit of Australia. 
There was no breach of any gentlemen's understanding reached at the February meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council. On the occasion of that meeting, I, together with other Ministers, particularly the Minister from South Australia, argued strongly for a relaxation of the quota system which operates in its present form against the production of a very valuable food which is in demand by Australians who want to buy it and who want to exercise their freedom of choice. We ran into opposition from Ministers from States such as New South Wales who were determined to retain the quota in the interests of their political sectional power base, the Country Party power base. The Agricultural Council decided in February that the Australian Capital Territory could have a quota of 300 tons. I said: Thank you very much; I accept it and I want it noted that I accept it.' That is on the record. Before that some inquiries had been made by various manufacturers of margarine about what could be done in the Australian Capital Territory. There are no laws here dealing with the subject. There were none then and there are none now. No laws have been made and no changes have been made. 
With that assurance from the Agricultural Council, Marrickville Holdings, which was the first to express an interest in the subject, came in and took an option on premises in Fyshwick which were suitable from the point of view of the health requirements of the Australian Capital Territory and the purpose clauses in the leasing system of the Australian Capital Territory. I saw no reason to stop that action and that is the position as it is now. The company has my approval, if I may put it that way, to manufacture 300 tons. There is no law at the moment - although I imagine I could make one at short notice - to prevent the company from exceeding that amount, but I am sure that it will honour the understanding we have. However, there is no law at the moment to stop anyone coming here and making margarine. 
Yes, I recall the question asked of the Minister for Social Security yesterday by the honourable member for Macquarie about hardship that can occur to people who are in an unequal bargaining position when .they come to negotiate with the managements of certain homes that provide facilities for old people. The problem is part of a wider problem in which standard forms of contract are imposed on people. This happens in a whole area of concern. It happens in the insurance business where a standard form of contract ds used and there is no bargaining position. No one can argue and say: 'I do not like that condition in the contract; take it out or vary it'. Anyone with experience of insurance contracts knows that they are full of terms, conditions and clauses which operate against the consumer. The standard form of contract for the sale of land in many of the States favours the vendor against the purchaser. The standard form of leasing agreement entered into by some of the large lessor corporations operates against the small business man, who has no freedom of choice to say: 'I will not take it'. It is there in the small print. The same situation applies in the matter that was touched on by the honourable member for Macquarie and the Minister for Social Security at question time yesterday. It seems that there is great need for legislation that would impose certain minimum fair terms in such contracts that would redress that imbalance. There is nothing novel in this because the law has long recognised it in certain types of transactions such as money lending transactions, in relation to which the courts can make redress and give relief where the terms are harsh and oppressive or unfair. In such a case a court of equity would give relief. It seems that in this day and age there is a great case to extend that principle into other areas and bring about redress of the imbalance not only on a contractual basis but also on a statutory basis. The matter has been the subject of discussions with the Attorney-General and is being investigated and studied. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 am unaware of any understanding that the remuneration of Northern Territory Legislative Councillors would be tied in scale to that of members of the Australian Parliament. Following the enactment of the Remuneration and Allowances Act 1973 the Government reviewed the fees and allowances payable to the elected members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council and announced its approval to the following increases with effect from 6 May 1973. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The central block of Reid House is leased to the A.C.T. Council of Cultural Societies. One wing of the building is to be removed to Duntroon for use by the Association for Modern Education. Due to the current shortage of office accommodation consideration is being given to the use of several wings for emergency, temporary office and storage accommodation. There are no plans for immediate demolition. 
The provision of parking in Canberra is the responsibility of the National Capital Development Commission which is within the area of responsibility of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I am advised that an examination is being made of the need for parking spaces in the City in conjunction with measures designed to improve the public transport system and its patronage. It can be expected that there will be relatively fewer spaces available for all day employee parking in the future and that facilities will be oriented to the short-stay parking requirements. 
It is probably too early to give too many examples of the sort of use to which the Ordinance could be put, but it is well known that prices are higher in Canberra than in New South Wales and some other places. The reasons for this are sometimes hard to find. Two examples occur to me as possibly being suitable for reference to the prices controller when he starts his work. The first is me, announced intention of the New South Wales Government to withdraw its road transport co-ordination tax as it applies to the Australian Capital Territory. It is estimated that at the moment this tax could be costingconsumers in Canberra about $lm. It will be interesting to see whether prices, if not subject to the scrutiny of the prices controller, some down when that $lm, perhaps, is removed.Itisa possibility. I put it no higher than that. 
The other example which occurs to me is mis: I am indebted to a constituent who the other day gave me 2 newspaper advertisements, both relating to a very well-known building company that operates in Melbourne and Canberra. It is an offer to put 'on your land' ahouse, which after all is nothing more than building materials and the services that go into putting the building materials together to form a house. The house is called '18.84 squares of quality of life'. The plan of the house appears in both advertisements. The plans are identical. The advertisements were inserted by the same company. The houses have the same name. The same description of extras is given. Details are given. There are identical financing provisions. The Melbourne price is $15,659. The Canberra price is $19,940. That, too, is something that could, with profit, be referred to the controller. I have the name of the company, but I will not use it in this place. If this statement comes to the notice of the company, it might care to get in touch with me. 

 Mr BARRY EVERINGHAM: 
 I support the 3 Bills before the House. I am reminded that as long ago as 1970 the then Prime Minister spoke during a by-election in which 1 was elected to this House in support of the proposition that the size of the Australian Capital Territory was such - I quote him loosely because I do not have his exact words in front of me - that it either was or shortly would be ready for increased representation. Indeed I seem to remember the then Minister for the Interior echoing those remarks shortly afterwards. It is my recollection that in 1968 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was Leader of the Opposition introduced the Territory Senators Bill in an attempt to take account of the fact that in the Australian Capital Territory a gross injustice was being perpetrated by the people being so under-represented. Although the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  made some light talk about the burdens that all back bench politicians carry, it is worth reflecting that in the Australian Capital Territory, where there are about 180,000 people - a population increasing at about 10 per cent per annum compound - or half the population of Tasmania, there is one politician, one representative in the only body where any laws can be made affecting the people of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Compare the situation in the Australian Capital Territory with the situation in Tasmania where there are 10 senators, 5 members of a House of Representatives, 35 members of the lower State House, 19 members of an upper State House, all paid and treated as full time politicians, and well over 500 local aldermen. In all arguments such as those that have been put by the honourable member for Parramatta it is often overlooked that the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory for that matter, although not quite to the same extent, have their laws made by this Parliament on a plenary base. The Australian Parliament does not make all the laws for New South Wales. They are made in large measure for the people of New South Wales by the State Government of New South Wales. Many of the laws in New South Wales are made by local councils. But everything that affects the people of Canberra - from buses to the disposal of garbage, advertising, control of architects and the tower on Black Mountain - has in some way to come through this place. 
It is indeed. I can echo that remark. But everything has to go through this place whereas almost 600 full time and part time politicians serve the needs of the people of Tasmania for these overall purposes. Tasmania has twice the population of the Australian Capital Territory where one person is required to do everything. I make no apologies for this and I want no sympathy for it but I suggest it does ram home the inadequacy of the representation of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. It is true that they have an Advisory Council charged with advising, passing resolutions and making comment on matters of its own initiative or matters referred to it by the Minister but its members, in the present situation, cannot be regarded as peoples' representatives in the sense in which members of this House or members of the Senate are regarded. For these reasons, in principle I support this measure as being long overdue. 
I touch briefly now on some aspects of the speech of the honourable member for Parramatta concerning the Senate. He spoke of territorial senators as though they were a strange creation. Of course they will be different. 
Yes, the honourable member referred to the short term aspect. The honourable member spoke as though this proposal would impinge on some compact made with the States back in 1900 or 1890. I like to think that I am familiar with the Australian Constitution. I recognise the historical fact that the Australian Constitution was originally created with the idea that the Senate would be a State House comprising 10 senators from each of the States. Does anyone seriously suggest today that it is a State House? That is a legal fiction, an outmoded piece of nonsense. Senators do not vote as State senators. In all my experience outside or inside this place I have never read of New South Wales senators voting against Victorian senators or South Australian senators voting against Tasmanian senators. They vote on party lines because since 1900 the party system of government, for good or bad - generally I take the view that it is for good - has come to fruition, although probably its best days are yet to come. The Senate, particularly in recent months, votes as does this House - along Party lines. There may be nothing wrong with that but to suggest strongly, as did the honourable member for Parramatta, that there is something of a betrayal of that original compact between the States by giving representation to the Territories seems to me to be completely inconsistent and not keeping up to date with trends and what actually has happened. 
Yes, I have, but my point remains valid. The Senate, like this House, votes on Party lines. I do not know, nor do I think the honourable member for Parramatta or anyone else knows, how the people of the Australian Capital Territory will vote and whom they will return when they have the opportunity to put 2 people into the Senate. 
The honourable member may be right; I hope not, but one does not know. I know that for years the previous Liberal-Country Party Government refused to give the Australian Capital Territory the representation it warranted for the simple reason that it could not work out a way so to achieve such representation that it would go to a member of the Liberal Party. 
I do not think so, and I will say it again. 
You can work it out. Just look at the actions of the previous Government. It made repeated statements that increased representation was due, but repeatedly it failed to act. It was repeatedly faced with the fact that the people of the Austraiian Capital Territory voted for a party of which that Government did not approve - the Australian Labor Party. Compare the previous Government's record with the decision of the Labor Government to give increased representation to the Australian Capital Territory and also to give Senate representation to the Northern Territory. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  who sits opposite knows that his Party, the Australian Country Party, on previous voting patterns has a majority in the Northern Territory, yet that does not stop the Labor Government from saying that there will be 2 senators for the Northern Territory. There is as much chance in the Northern Territory of 2 Country Party representatives being elected as there are of 2 Labor Party representatives being elected in the Australian Capital Territory. However it is indicative of the different thinking of the 2 Parties - the Liberal and Country Parties on one side saying: 'We will not, because we cannot see advantage for ourselves in it', and the Labor Government saying: 'We will honour an election promise that has been in our policy for many years to do the right thing by the Northern Territory even if we cannot take advantage to ourselves as a Party from it, and we will do the right thing by the Australian Capital Territory at the same time'. It seems to me that that fundamentally is the difference between the 2 groups of parties. I do not think there is anything more I wish to say, except again to congratulate the Minister on bringing these 3 measures forward at this early stage in this Parliament's history so that this long standing inadequacy can be overcome and proper representation can be given to the people of both the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. 
Yes, I recall the television program to which the honourable member referred. Without accepting his version of what I said as being completely correct - 
I am not quibbling with you about the substance. What the honourable member said is basically correct. It would appear that for a long time the State police forces, acting perhaps pursuant to legislation which the States have enacted and which on all the opinion available to me and to the Attorney-General, would be invalid because it would be in conflict with the Federal Act, are having their policemen tap, if you like, telephone messages. On the television program I expressed my abhorrence at that practice. All I said was - I do not claim to use now the exact words I used then but they are consistent with what I said then - that it would be a rather Draconian measure for the Commonwealth to say to a policeman of New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria or South Australia who believes himself to be acting pursuant to a valid law that he would be treated as acting pursuant to an invalid law and charged with a criminal offence. I believe that that would be rather harsh. 
If the Queensland Government seeks to enact a law - I am being hypothetical - that is in conflict with the Commonwealth law and is invalid because of that conflict - the Queensland Government should know that - and then instructs one of its policemen to go out and do something that is basically illegal, one of the remedies of the Australian Government would be to institute criminal proceedings against that particular policeman. The real villian, if I can put it that way, is not the particular policeman concerned but the State agencies of the Government of Queensland if it took place in that way. That is all I said. One would not be happy about doing it but one might well have to do it, and there is no conflict at all between the remarks of the Attorney-General in the Senate and what I said on tht 'Four Corners* program. The reference I made to this matter coming to the attention of the Australian Government as a result of court cases is perfectly true. One reads from time to time - the honourable member for Moreton would be familiar with this situation and I am sure that I have actually heard him speak on this subject - 
Yes, the honourable member also. I refer to cases in State courts when proceedings have been commenced relying upon evidence obtained in that way and judges have exercised their discretion to exclude the admissibility of evidence obtained in that way either because it was improper, because it was illegal or because there was sufficient doubt about whether it was improper or illegal. They have, quite properly, exercised their discretion to exclude the evidence and this has resulted in acquittal. The whole rationale that lies behind all this is that the Commonwealth Parliament has power to make laws on the subject of interception of telephone calls. Such a law was made in 1968. Some of the States have enacted laws in conflict with it. This was the subject of correspondence between  Sir Robert  Menzies, as long ago as, I think, 1964, and State Premiers. The previous Postmaster-General made representations to, I think, the Premier of Queensland on the subject. In copies of the correspondence I have seen there has never been any assertion by any of those State Premiers that they had a right to do what is obviously being done. 
Yes, it should be stopped. 
I have seen the advertising on one bus. I should say that the present experiment of placing advertisements on Canberra buses is the result of a decision taken some time ago. In part it is intended to sound public opinion in Canberra on the subject. Also, of course, in part it is motivated by the fact that the Canberra bus service operates at a loss. I think that the loss last year was about $800,000, and we want to ascertain whether this is a viable and acceptable means of raising some revenue. I am also conscious that the placing of advertisements on buses is probably causing concern to some people who are concerned about visual pollution. All I should say at this stage is that my Department has the matter under very close review to ascertain whether it does provoke any opposition from the people in Canberra. 
As to the question of whether people have been prosecuted for putting illegal signs on walls and things of that sort, yes there have been prosecutions in the past. It is one of the great features and advantages of the Canberra scene that we can avoid the hoardings, mass advertisements and that sort of thing which exists in so many other parts of the country, and we would like to keep it that way. lt is one of the advantages of a system that depends largely on a very strict control of land use that we can achieve this feature which cannot be achieved in countries or Slates that do not have a leasehold system of land tenure such as exists in the Australian Capital Territory. I want to take the opportunity to add this comment, which I think is relevant to the honourable member's question: I gave to the Department only a few days ago a direction that there should not be any advertising of cigarettes or any tobacco products on any of the existing controlled places in Canberra where advertisements are placed. 
In pursuance of section 13 of the Law Reform Commission Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory I present the following 3 reports of the Law Reform Commission of the Territory, namely, a report on the landlord and tenant law in the Australian Capital Territory, a report on the management of the property and affairs of mentally infirm persons, and a supplementary report on imperial Acts in force in the Australian Capital Territory. Copies of each of these reports have been distributed to honourable members. For convenience the supplementary report on imperial Acts has been printed together with the principal report on that subject which was tabled but not distributed on 24 October 1972. 
The Law Reform Commission of the Australian Capital Territory consists of  Mr Justice  Blackburn of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court as Chairman; Professor Atiyah, Dean of the Faculty of Law in the School of General Studies at the Australian National University; and  Mr N.  M. Macphillamy, a Canberra solicitor. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may 1 have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Evidence Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
It would be wrong for me to give a positive answers to the tatter parts of the question posed by the honourable member for Hawker, but I certainly will discuss it with the Attorney-General and draw his attention to it. Perhaps I can just say this: The honourable member's interest in the subject of corporations and company law reform is well known. He is concerned, as I understand the question, not so much with the niceties and advantages of having a single Australia-wide companies law that would overcome the ever constant risk that States will change their legislation and we will have a lack of uniformity but rather with the role of the company and the corporation in a changing society. We know that the limited liability company has conferred enormous benefits on modern society. We know that it marshals capital. We know that it also pulls a corporate, veil across activities that are so vital and so important in our country. One knows the difficulties of looking through that corporate veil to find out what is really going on. It has been said that the modern company is capable of a form of deception because people cannot see through the veil. This does pose a philosophical problem. Academics have done a lot of work on it. I do not know of any detailed studies in depth for Australian conditions, but I will certainly draw the Attorney's attention to the matter. I know that he is familiar with it I will convey the honourable member's views to him. 
There is nothing that could be called plans but I have certainly had discussions with the Ministers concerned with this matter. One of the features of the policies followed by the previous Government, with over-emphasis on a contract system, was that it created a great shortage of trained, skilled, experienced tradesmen. There was a lack of incentive, I suppose, for tradesmen to use the apprenticeship system in the way in which it was originally conceived. The decision of the previous Government was to let the day labour force that once existed in Canberra, and to which so much credit can be given for the construction of Canberra's early houses, run down and it has virtually been allowed to atrophy. I have been making strong suggestions that we should reactivate the day labour force. I think it is fair to say that other Ministers share the view that there is enormous advantage to be gained from reactivating it in both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, but that is not a thing that can be done overnight. I think that is the best answer I can give the honourable member. 
One who had any knowledge of the facts - the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  does have knowledge of the facts - could be forgiven for being angry at some of the things he said. There was a note of hypocrisy about his remarks. He gave notice of his intention to have the resumption declared null and void on 29 May, which was the day before yesterday, when it was known that this Parliament - which had sat longer than ever before - was determined to rise tonight. As he knows, if the Government had wanted to do what the previous Government did so many times, it need never have brought it on for debate at all and he would have automatically lost. As he said himself, it is a law of long standing, not a law made by the Labor Government. The LiberalCountry Party coalition Government, which was quite properly and rightly ejected from power in December last year, made the Land Acquisition Act. It made the 30-day rule. We could have done what it did to the Aboriginal Embassy - nothing. As a result of the lateness of the notice of intention to move this motion I find myself - the honourable member for Northern Territory is in no small part to blame - with less than 5 minutes to speak, because the Standing Orders require that this sitting shall come to an end. 
Of course you are. In 4 or 5 minutes I will try to say what happened. In July last year - here is where the hypocrisy comes in - the then Minister for the Interior recommended that the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government do what we have now done. That Government did not proceed with it because it found an election on its hands and it was fighting for its life. It did everything else but it forgot to do that. It swept this matter under the carpet. I repeat that in July 1972 the then Minister for the Interior, who sits in the House tonight, recommended that about 32 square miles of freehold land adjacent to the existing Darwin acquisition area be acquired for future urban development. The previous Government found better things to do. It was fighting for its life in an election. It did not do this. It knew this had to be done. We have done it. The experience of Darwin is well known to honourable members. The population there is growing at a rate of 12 per cent per annum. When I go to Darwin - I go there as often as I can - I find speculators from Canberra there buying the place up. 
Name them in 4 minutes? I will not name them. Because of that everincreasing urban sprawl the Government decided to do what should be done. No one will suffer from this. No one will come to harm. That has been made clear. But for cheap, shoddy, narrow political reasons the honourable member tries to champion the very persons he has never championed before - the so called little people. There is an increasing urban sprawl in the area. The honourable member knows it; I know it. Regardless of any decision to develop separate towns in other areas, we can do with the aid of the Northern Territory Legislative Council what has been done so successfully  in Canberra.  The previous Government never wanted to do it. The present land development up there is haphazard and devoid of proper roads and services. Some of those people do not even have good title. They have bought from bodgie land developers who do not have title to confer on them. They have put their life savings into it. The honourable member has the audacity to come along here and talk this hypocritical nonsense. 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  will know of the Lanyon case wherein the Government with which he was associated did nothing. The people of Canberra, irrespective of what happens, will have to pay 10, 15 or 20 times the rates and charges for their land that they would have had to pay if his Government had done what we have done, 5, 10 or 15 years ago when it should have been done and when that Government was told it should have been done. The asking price is $3 5m. Honourable members opposite know that. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  who was the Minister for the Interior in the previous Government knows it. The asking price for Lanyon is $35m. I was not going to have a Lanyon scandal on my hands, and the Government took action. That will be passed on to the landowners of Canberra. 
This matter was put to the previous Government last year. When the High Court decision is known we will know who was right. No one in the Northern Territory will suffer. Those people do not even have electricity. They do not have roads or sewerage. They have nothing. I have been to speak to them. When did the honourable member for the Northern Territory ever speak to them? It is his electorate. I have received deputations saying: 'Good on you. You have done a good job'. Honourable members opposite come along here and stir, and then wait to see what happens. There can be no doubt that what has been done up there has been done in the interests of proper development for the Northern Territory, in the interests of the people who live there and in the interests of giving them sewerage, electricity, lighting, security of title and a good life. They know it. I know it. Those honourable members sitting opposite, who make cries that sound like bankrupt cockatoos on a dead tree, know it too. 
I am getting worked up when I hear hypocrisy being uttered. It has been made clear that there will be lease back arrangements pending the proper development of this area, the provision of services and the implementation of the Pak-Poy report and all the facilities that this Australian Government can place behind the proper development of the Northern Territory and the proper development of Darwin. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Carrier's)  be agreed to. 
The Attorney-General has given the following reply: 
I am aware that the film 'Last Tango in Paris' has been examined by the Film Censorship Board who are of the opinion that the film is suitable for exhibition to adult audiences. 
The film has been registered under the Customs (Cinematograph Films) Regulations and classified 'R' under State and Territory legislation. Provided the restricted conditions of the 'R' Classification are observed (that is, persons between the ages of . 18. and 6 - 2 in South Australia - are not admitted to cinemas showing the film) there is no legal bar to the showing of the film. 
The Film Censorship Board has carried out. its duties in relation to the film 'Last Tango in Paris'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following an approach to the honourable member, in his capacity at that time of Minister for the Interior, in connection with the possible use of Reid House for low cost accommodation for students and other low income tenants, an interdepartmental meeting was held in May 1972. The meeting did not find that there was evidence of a substantial unsatisfied demand for student accommodation in the Australian Capital Territory at that time. Since then there has been no further interdepartmental meeting. 
Foreign Take-overs of Australian Companies  (Question No. 498) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are two Australian Capital Territory Ordinances which could be used to prevent parking of motor vehicles on that part of Camp Hill between the two established off-street parking areas at the rear of East Block and West Block respectively. In general these are- 
Section 4 of the Public Parks Ordinance 1928- 
1966: 
This section empowers the Minister to declare by notice published in the Gazette any unleased land belonging to the Commonwealth to be a public park or recreation reserve. 
This power has not been exercised in respect of Camp Hill. 
If such power were exercised, Regulations made under this Ordinance would prevent a person taking a vehicle into a reserve or park except into a portion especially provided for vehicles. 
Section 4 of the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1932-1973: 
This section makes it an offence amongst other things for a person without lawful excuse to trespass or go on unleased Commonwealth land on which a noticeis posted prohibiting trespass. 
At present there are no notices posted prohibiting trespass on Camp Hill. 
Parking of vehicles in the two off-street parking areas is controlled by the relevant provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance 1936-1973. 
Revaluation of the Australian Dollar  (Question No. 568) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Department of the Capital Territory occupies four buildings in the Australian Capital Territory which are not owned by the Commonwealth and occupies space, for which rental is paid, in one building owned by a Commonwealth authority. The Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority occupies space in one building not owned by the Commonwealth. 
In respect of the Department of the Capital Territory, rentals range from $2.60 per square foot to $5.30 per square foot. The average rental per square foot is $4.77. 
In respect of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority, annual rental is $4.75 per square foot. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The need is not presently seen for a Royal Commission to reinforce studies the Government is now pursuing into self-government in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Briefly, the law relating to firearms in each State and Territory in Australia is as follows: 
I am familiar with the newspaper reports to which the honourable member refers. Of course, it can be expected that criticism will continue to be received because while the divorce laws of Australia remain in their present unsatisfactory state people will criticise them. The whole basis of fault in the law of matrimonial causes, the whole adversary situation which makes a controversial, expensive and litigious issue out of divorce, is something which will always offend people and give rise to demands for reform. I know that the Attorney-General is very concerned about this subject and is having studies of it made. But I think beyond that there is nothing else I can say at this stage in answer to the honourable member. 
In the Territories, one of the few places where the Australian Government does have power on these subjects, a certain amount has been done in recent months. There would not be time to give a full list. For example, in the Northern Territory that popular commodity - beer - is now selling in a place like Katherine at 3c below the price at which it was being sold there, say, a month ago. Other examples could be given. In the case of the Australian Capital Territory we held the price of bread down here for much longer than it otherwise would have been held down. We have depressed the rents on residential leases. Beer at present is selling for less in the Australian Capital Territory than in New South Wales. Petrol at this time is5c a gallon cheaper in Canberra than it is in Queanbeyan. It is clear that certain things are being done and we hope to do others in the future. A measure is not too far off, I hope, that could be fairly objectively called a charter for shopkeepers in the Australian Capital Territory - I hope that it will also 'be implemented in the Northern Territory - to stop or at least reduce- 
I will come to lawyers in a moment. It is hoped that the measure will stop or reduce the exploitation of shopkeepers that takes place from time to time. I am reminded by one of the honourable gentlemen sitting opposite of lawyers' fees. Following discussion with representatives of the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory a month or so ago of the Government's proposals in the area of conveyancing law reform, lawyers in the Australian Capital Territory voluntarily substantially reduced their conveyancing fees. I come now to what the honourable member for Hawker had in mind. It is a great pity that some of the States cannot do some of these things. I am reminded of a meeting attended by the Prime Minister and some of the Premiers - the Treasurer was there and I was fortunate enough to be present in the role I play as Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory - at which the States were informed of the sorts of measures they can implement. Very little has been done in this area. One would hope that at the Constitutional Convention in Sydney there will be little grandstanding and little showmanship but a lot of objective appraisement and a realisation of the problems facing Australia in this day and age. For economic management the ultimate source of power and responsibility rests with the Australian Government, where it should lie. but that power is denied to it. On the other point I am reminded by the right honourable member for Higgins- 
No, but seeing the right honourable member sitting there reminded me of the absurd state of the laws of defamation in Australia where an action can be brought claiming damages in respect of a newspaper article published in the Australian Capital Territory or a program broadcast or televised in the Australian Capital Territory which is read or seen by people in Queanbeyan and Goulburn and which can be read and seen by people in Victoria and perhaps Queensland and South Australia and where the plaintiffs chances of success vary because each of those places has a different set of laws on the subject. How very absurd that is. I have described some of the steps which have been taken by the Australian Government in its Territories. I hope that many more will be taken. One would hope that the States will take measures of a similar kind. One would also hope, particularly when we get to the committee stage of the Constitutional Convention, that substantial reforms and recommendations will be made and implemented. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report on the Territory of Norfolk Island for the year ended 30 June 1972. 
Pursuant to section 168 of the Trade Practices Act 1971-1972, I present the sixth annual report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices with respect to his operations during the year ended 30 June 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
 The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. The Attorney-General's Department and authorities under the control of the Attorney-General occupy premises in each State that are not Commonwealth owned. The Department of Services and 
Property is responsible for each of the buildings occupied and pays the rentals concerned. The numbers of buildings occupied in each State are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The transfer which was to take place in 1973 has presently been deferred. No firm decision has been made in relation to the transfer program for 1974. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The present Restrictive Trade Practices Act provides for certain classes of agreements and practices to be examined by the Commissioner of Trade Practices and, if he thinks necessary, by the Trade Practices Tribunal, to determine whether those agreements and practices are contrary to the public interest. The matters raised by the honourable member and a particular case that he brought to my attention have been referred to the Commissioner of Trade Practices for any action he may consider appropriate. The problems being encountered in the particular case have now been satisfactorily resolved. 
FM Broadcasting (Question  No.  235) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The number of buildings not owned by the 
Commonwealth but occupied by Commonwealth Departments and Authorities in the Northern Territory is 46. (b) (i) Range of rentals paid in the Northern 
Territory is $1.00-6.50 per square foot. foot. 
Average rental paid in: 
the Northern Territory is $3.13 per square foot; and 
in Darwin is $3.53 per square foot. 
By way of explanation, the leased accommodation function for all Commonwealth purposes is still being performed by officers of my, Department in the Northern Territory pending its transfer to the Department of Services and Property. Many units of other Departments established in the Territory are relatively small in size and sharing of leased buildings by more than one Department is the rule rather than the exception. Accordingly, the above figures cover all Commonwealth Departments located in the Territory, and also Authorities coming within the ambit of my portfolio. Further, in many leased buildings, the Commonwealth would not be the sole occupier. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
 The Government is always anxious to help the Opposition, and with the concurrence of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  I seek leave of the House to move a motion to enable the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  to speak for 30 minutes, not the usual 20 minutes. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for the question. It is an interesting point of view that seems to state that action producing lower petrol prices in one area is to be condemned because of a failure to take similar action in other parts of Australia. As recently as this morning the Minister for Education in the New South Wales Government, representing the Minister for Labour and Industry in the New South Wales Government, was heard to complain that my action in freezing petrol prices was some kind of discrimination and that if something was not done about it he would have to take appropriate action. I hope that he would. I would invite him to take the same sort of action as we have in the Australian Capital Territory and reduce petrol prices in New South Wales. If I can 'be forgiven for taking this opportunity, realising that these proceedings are being broadcast, let me tell people who live in other parts of Australia that they should write to their members, Premiers and Ministers and urge them to do exactly what we are doing in the Australian Capital Territory. I would invite all people listening to the radio broadcast from the Australian Parliament to do just that. They should write to  Sir Robert  Askin, the Premier of New South Wales, or write to the Premier of Victoria and complain, saying: 'If they can do it in the Australian Capital Territory why can you not do it in New South Wales? Why can it not be done in Victoria? Why cannot the Premier in Queensland do it?' 
The honourable member and I are mutually concerned about the Northern Territory. He will appreciate that decisions in that area are matters for the Administrator's Council. At my suggestion, as far as I know, this matter is being considered in the Administrator's Council. My power in the Northern Territory is different from my power in the Australian Capital Territory. The Legislative Councillors that the honourable member referred to are represented on the Administrator's Council. If they want to do the right thing, let them do it. Unfortunately they are members of the same party as the honourable member and are less enthusiastic about doing, and less prone to do anything about reducing prices in the Northern Territory than this Government is. I suggest that the honourable member use his influence with Country Party members of the Administrator's Council, which sits in Darwin, and persuade them to do what we are doing in the Australian Capital Territory. If that happens, well and good; I would hope something of the same kind would happen. 
That is a striking commentary on attitudes expressed by members of the Country Party. As a result of the action of this Government in Canberra every day 3,000 or 4,000 patients obtain medical care cheaper than do patients in other parts of Australia. The honourable member does not want that to happen. He criticises it and he rejects it. We know where his friends are. As recently as the other day, as I understand it, the honourable member for Gwydir, a former Minister for the Interior, was quoted as being critical of the Prices Regulation Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. There is no doubt that implicit in his statement is loyalty to the oil companies. I have nothing against the oil companies. That was implicit in what he said. 
The suggestion that it be disallowed reflects the real loyalty. I come back to this point: I am indebted to the honourable member for the Northern Territory for giving me the opportunity to say that good government can produce an answer to the problems of inflation. 
(Australian Capital Territory Minister for the Capital Territory) by leave I want to take this opportunity to thank the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  for the presentation of the reports. I certainly will study them in great detail and I am sure the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  will do so also. It may be of interest to the honourable member and to other honourable members,  Mr Speaker,  if I advert shortly to the problem posed by the honourable member for Canning in his short statement about the need to increase the supply of land in Canberra and. yet reconcile that need with the wishes of the people who live in homes adjoining open areas at the moment, areas which originally were planned for development but which those people legitimately would like to keep as open areas. Two days ago the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and I attended at Shackleton Hill in Canberra where an issue of this nature presents itself. We had useful discussions there with people who represent the area and who live in the area. We walked over the hill and very rewarding discussions took place. I know that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, who primarily is responsible for this subject, is going to make certain recommendations on it to his Department. That is consistant with what the honourable member for Canning spoke of and I thank him. 
Yes, I will be happy to press that point in the discussions that take place with the representatives of the oil companies. Perhaps I should add a little rider to my statement. There are certain differences between Queanbeyan and Canberra in the distribution of petrol and petroleum products, one being the more rational distribution of petrol which exists in Canberra as a consequence of planning. For example, it is well known, and if it is not well known it should be, that the average flow through turnover of petrol per service station site in Canberra is double what it is generally outside Canberra. This allows all sorts of economies due to the resultant size to be achieved. I shall be happy to push the matter about which the honourable member is concerned. 
 I apologise for not being present in the House when this matter was introduced. I was engaged in a matter that will be of interest to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder). 
It concerned discussions with the  Chairman  of the land tenure inquiry and my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  But I paid the honourable member the courtesy of discussing this matter with him this morning when we both expected confidently that it would be brought on in the Parliament at or before noon. I and my ministerial colleagues can take considerable pleasure in this decision that has now been reached and reported to us from the Senate. Honourable members may recall the original discussion that took place in the House some considerable time ago. We discussed the best ways in which to bring about a situation whereby the people of the Northern Territory could have a say in their own affairs. At that time the honourable member for the Northern Territory moved an amendment that would have tied in a rather restrictive and clumsy manner - I hope that the honourable member will forgive me as I do not mean this in an offensive way - reference to the proposed joint committee of the question of how best to inquire into territorial government for the Northern Territory. That amendment was defeated in this House. 
We know that the consideration of this matter by the Senate has been very considerably delayed. That is to be regretted. I think it is fair to point out that that delay is largely the result of the fact that the Government does not have a majority in the Senate. It is typical of the actions of Liberal Party and Country Party members who sit in the Senate with their Democratic Labor Party colleagues that they have stalled for so long this proposition that today is supported by the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
The honourable member says that I agreed. I direct him to the Senate Hansard where  Senator Webster  incorporated my Press statement. That Press statement forms the basis of the proposition that has now been referred to this House from the Senate. My Press statement setting out what I thought should be done was adopted in its entirety by the Senate. I congratulate honourable senators for that decision. It is only to be regretted that they took so long in doing it. There is little merit to be gained in arguing here whether the Government did the right thing or whether the Opposition did the right thing. The fact is that the right thing has been done. Therefore, it is with considerable pleasure that I move: 
That the Senate's modifications be agreed to. This will be the first step towards setting in motion in the Northern Territory discussion and investigation that we confidently hope will lead to constitutional reform in the Northern Territory. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker  - (Quorum formed). Ten short months ago the people of Australia threw out an old government, a Liberal-Country government that was dead on its feet, and installed a new Labor administration with a mission of change - a mission to get the country moving again. The Australian Labor Party accepted the challenge of that mission. Under the Whitlam Labor Government Australia has emerged from the long somnolence of the postwar conservative dreamtime and has struck out once more on the path of social progress which our grandparents pioneered. The last 23 years have been a long and musty detour and the vanguard in which our new nation once marched proudly has been left behind. There was a time in Australia's early years when the world looked to us for guidance in fair wage laws. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Action is currently in hand to establish by legislation the Authority which is to plan, develop and manage the Belconnen Retail Mall. It is expected that an interim authority will be appointed shortly. 
The first stage of the shopping mall is scheduled to open in 1976-77. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Studies are continuing. It is, however, difficult to establish an optimum size for a city, as the Honourable Member would know from his previous experience. 
Yes, to the extent this is practicable. The scheduled 1973-74 transfers have been deferred for the present. 
Yes. 
Australian Capital Territory: Waiting lists for Accommodation  (Question No. 797) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The waiting lists maintained are for family dwelling units and bachelor flats. The numbers on the lists at 31 July 1973 were: 
Family dwellings  -  7,616 
Bachelor flats  -  421. 
As at 24 August 1973 allocations were being made in the various categories of accommodation to applicants who registered on the dates shown: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under present policy Government homes can be purchased by persons who were in occupation on 7 July 1972 or who were on the waiting list at that date and have since been or will be allocated houses. 
It is not intended to extend the privilege to persons registered since 7 July 1972 while the present serious shortage of rental housing persists. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The honourable member will be aware that I have suspended land auctions in Canberra for the present. The existing policies and options available in the provision of land and housing are under review with the object of identifying principles and guidelines for possible Government action within the Canberra land and housing market. 
The National Capital Development Commission proposes servicing about 5,300 blocks in 1973-74 of which about 3,800 will be available for lease for detached houses. As well, sufficient blocks will be available for lease to accommodate about 850 town house units and 1,150 residential flats. The remaining blocks will be used for Government houses and flats. 
Indications are that this amount of residential land should be sufficient to meet the housing needs of over 20,000 people. 
The honourable member would know however that there is an inevitable time lag between land release and house occupation. Canberra's present land shortage relates back to supply decisions taken last year and earlier by the previous Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proposed system of neighbourhood child care is essentially an arrangement between the parent and the child minder. No formal licensing requirements are envisaged partly because there is a desire to keep the costs and techniques of administration as low and simple as possible. A pre-school teacher and a welfare officer will visit the child care centres on a regular basis and instructive pamphlets will be distributed to parents and child minders. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prices Regulation Ordinance 1949-1973 has no specific provision to enable a person or organisation to argue his case before the Controller of Prices without the Controller's approval. In practice, however, it could be expected that the Controller would welcome information from any responsible person or body. 
Yes. 
Except in very general terms there is no way by which the Controller could make known to the public the circumstances which led to the fixing of a price. People who furnish information to the Price Controller are of course free to publish that information. 
Of course, what the honourable member says about the continuance of reports of unsatisfactory features of the Northern Territory prison system is quite correct. About 5 months ago I asked the Department of the Northern Territory to see whether we could arrange for Professor Gordon Hawkins of the University of Sydney, who is well known for his skill, expertise and erudition in this field, to investigate the penal system in the Northern Territory. He has completed that report, together with the assistance of  Dr Misner  who has had extensive experience in the United States. The report has not been studied in great depth at this stage but it does reveal a very depressing and unfortunate state of affairs which again should not surprise us because it is yet another example of the defective systems we have inherited from the previous Government. Professor Hawkins makes the point that the penal system is dehumanising, debasing and an essentially destructive experience and that a large majority of prisoners are Aboriginal Australians. One estimate is that approximately 75 per cent of the people in gaol in the Northern Territory are there for the offence of public drunkenness. This is a form of behaviour that many believe should not be considered as criminal at all and should be taken out of the area of criminal law. If the estimate that some 75 per cent of people in gaol in the Northern Territory are there for public drunkenness is correct and a very large percentage of them are Aboriginal people it is a depressing picture which emerges from the report. 
Certain recommendations have been made for the replacement of Fannie Bay gaol and I have asked my Department to do everything possible to see that the gaol at Fannie Bay is removed by the middle of next year. The Department pointed out that that might not be possible but that it would try to accomplish this by the middle of 1975. This involves making other arrangements. At the moment there is still one unfortunate feature of the penal system in the Northern Territory - again one which we inherited from the previous Government. It is that white Australians who receive a penalty of more than, I think, 18 months go south to the Adelaide prison system while Aboriginal Australians do not. This is a beautiful example of racial discrimination, one which we are hoping to bring to an end. Of course, the problem is the provision of alternative facilities. It takes time to build new establishments. We have a prison farm at Gun Point and are hoping that when Fannie Bay goes there will be another open type prison farm housing, in accordance with the Hawkins report, no more than 60 people. These are some of the most depressing features of the system which we are determined to solve. The Legislative Council of the Northern Territory is aware of the problem and has set up a committee. We will await its report. The honourable member is correct in what he said and something will be done to put the situation right. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of Professor Loss on proposals for Australian companies and securities legislation, together with the text of a statement on the report made today in the Senate by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy). 
I have received a telex message that carries the advice that the Sydney based Sutton group of companies has bought Tipperary station for $5.4m and that the sale is associated with an arrangement that was previously being entered into with the Tipperary group of companies over a dispute with Aborigines who claim cattle rights in the Daly River area. These facts will be well known, of course, to the honourable member for the. Northern Territory. The only unusual feature I am aware of is the relationship to the sale of that arrangement that existed between Tipperary and the Aborigines in the Daly River area. One hopes that the purchasers will adhere to the arrangement. 
 I have listened with considerable interest to the 2 speeches that have been made to this stage on this subject, particularly to the speech of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who expressed the depth of feeling that he has about the subject of capital punishment, the uncertainty and dilemma that he described himself as facing and the difficulty he has in making up his mind. I suggest to him that it is time he made up his mind. I listened with considerable interest also to the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  and at the outset I would submit that his argument should be rejected completely and out of hand.  His  argument lined up and compared with the whole history of opposition to the proposition that the death penalty be abolished. 
As we were reminded by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he spoke on this subject some little while ago, the first move in the Australian Parliament to abolish the death penalty was made by him in 1960. Again in 1963, 1968 and 1972 the Parliamentary Labor Party, then in Opposition tried its best to put right this piece of barbarism. Each time the government of the day - then a Liberal-Country Party coalition government - thwarted the efforts of the present Prime Minister and of the Parliamentary Labor Party to bring about this reform. I do not know what processes took place in the minds of those who are now members of the Opposition. Seeing that the Liberal Party on this occasion does not oppose the measure but the Country Party seems to oppose it - although the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party suggested that it was not a party decision he said that most members of his party would oppose it - one can draw the reasonable inference that during all the years from 1960 onwards the tail wagged the dog. The Country Party, with its traditional conservatism, refused to let the Liberal Party, which does have in it some elements like my good friend the honourable member for Moreton, do what should have been done. 
Last night and this afternoon a note of sweet reason was projected into the debate by the 2 speakers from the Opposition parties. I do not wish to strike a discordant note. I welcome reason, particularly sweet reason, but I would suggest that given the history of this matter and given the continued opposition of Liberal and Country Party governments in their recorded actions since 1960 to thwart this reform, now having been brought to the end of the road and being faced with this situation - the Bill has passed the Senate and we know it will pass this House - all they have left to give themselves a little dignity is to try to appear reasonable. Reason, like anything else, can sometimes be used as a subterfuge to cover up lack of reason, hostility, prejudice and bias. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party has considerable skill as an advocate, and I commend him for that. 
I have in my hand a book which someone, knowing I was to speak on this subject, lent me. Its authors are Arthur Koestler and C. H. Rolph, 2 men committed to the subject of the reform of capital punishment. The book is titled 'Hanged by the Neck'. I will leave the book on the table of the House and honourable members can read it if they so desire. The cover photograph shows a man in the process of being hanged. A priest, policeman and other representatives of the French State are present. It is a horrible, gory picture. It is a nasty picture. It is a barbaric picture. Members of the public are watching the hanging. This is what we associate ourselves with whenever we put the dignity and sanction of the State behind this crime. It becomes judicial murder. 
Do we seriously condone this act of barbarism? I know it is always said that it is not revenge which justifies capital punishment. Not even the staunchest defenders of capital punishment take that ground, although frankly I do not believe it. Call it by other names, it is a feeling of revenge. That is what retribution means and retribution is one of the 3 principal words used whenever one reads a discussion on the subject of punishment. It is revenge that is put behind capital punishment - revenge for some feeling of outrage that one claims to feel, and which we all feel. The punishment in this case is the forfeiture of life. People who support capital punishment say: 'Oh, do not worry. It is done humanely. It is all over in a second. Not to worry.' They talk about deterrence. The honourable member for Moreton spoke about deterrence, but to his credit he quoted figures from every part of the world which prove that capital punishment is not a deterrent. In 95 per cent of cases the person who commits a murder is a close relative or friend who gives way to some outraged feelings on the spur of the moment and never thinks of the deterrent aspect of it - that if caught he will be convicted and hanged for his crime. Figures proved this, and the honourable member for Moreton pointed it out. 
Before turning to the question of deterrence which is one that worries many people - putting a policement behind the citizen otherwise the citizen will break the law - let me dwell for a moment on the concept of capital punishment - being merciful and painless. It does not take a second's thought to realise that neither hanging nor any of its alternatives is, in fact, less than very painful. It has taken the insight of a great novelist to grasp the real behind the apparent cruelty of the death penalty. On this occasion - certainly the last time this House will concern itself with this problem; this hang-over from the dark ages - I should like to quote Dos.toyevsky's words in his novel The Idiot' about what the death penalty really means. He wrote:   . . but the chief and the worst pain may not be in the bodily suffering but in one's knowing for certain that in an hour, and then in 10 minutes, and then in half a minute, and then now, at the very moment, the soul will leave the body and that one will cease to be a man, and that that's bound to happen; the worst part of it is that it's certain. When you lay your head down under the knife and hear the knife slide over your head that quarter of a second is the most terrible of all. You know this is not only my fancy, many people have said the same. I believe that so thoroughly that 111 tell you what I think. To kill for murder is a punishment incomparably worse than the crime itself. Murder by legal sentence is immeasurably more terrible than murder by brigands. Anyone murdered by brigands, whose throat is cut at night in a wood, or something of that sort, must surely hope to escape till the very last minute. There have been instances when a man has still hoped for escape, running or begging for mercy after his throat was cut But in the other case all that last hope, which makes dying 10 times as easy, is taken away for certain. There is the sentence, and that whole torture lies in the fact that there is certainly no escape, and there is no torture in the world more terrible. You may lead a soldier out and set him facing the cannon in battle and fire at him and he'll still hope; but read a sentence of certain death over the same soldier, and he will go out of his mind or burst into tears. Who can tell whether human nature is able to bear this madness? Why this hideous, useless, unnecessary outrage? Perhaps there is some man who has been sentenced to death, been exposed to this torture, and has been told 'You can go, you are pardoned'. Perhaps such a man could tell us. It was of this torture and this agony that Christ spoke, too. No, you can't treat a man like that. 
Those were Dostoyevsky's words. 
Judicial murder is no merciful death. It is naked, unmitigated, barbaric cruelty. The reality is hidden from us by the bureaucratic trappings built up around it, but the truth is this - I make no apology for using these words: It is torture that is done in our name, torture of a particularly terrible kind. Every day that we tolerate its continuance degrades every one of us. Make no mistake, we are all there - not physically, of course, but we are a bit like those American bomber pilots over Vietnam. We do not see the blood. We do not see the anguish. Computerised and in a clinical, isolated, clean way we press the button. But we condone this dreadful ritual while it goes on and our hand is on the lever. I have said that these ritual killings degrade us all in a darker, more sinister way. It is not the sort of thing people like speaking about. It is like  Dr Wainer  on the abortion law issue. It is a dirty subject, an unpleasant subject, a nasty subject. But I do not apologise for bringing it up because if we are honest we will admit that it plays a major, if unexamined, part in our naive defences of capital punishment. 
Clarence Darrow, that very famous American trial lawyer, makes the point as plainly as it can be made. He said on one earlier occasion: 
Every human being that believes in capital punishment loves killing, and the only reason they believe in capital punishment is because they get a kick out of it. 
Quite frankly I find that to be perhaps a slight exaggeration, but I wonder whether there is not some truth in the statement. They are blunt words - perhaps an overstatement - of a very great orator, but there is truth there. If Darrow's statement is not completely correct, if it is an overstatement, at least it can be said that the people who propose the continuance of capital punishment certainly hate giving it up. That was implicit in the words of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. They hate giving it up and they fight to retain it. When they see that they cannot retain it any longer they look around for some remaining particularly heinous type' of offence to which they can still attach it. One can almost see their minds working: 'There must be something to which we can attach this death penalty. Do not let them take it away from us. There must be something - perhaps some particularly aggravated form of murder. Let us find something. Search, look.' That is implicit in everything the honourable member said. If one looks at the amendment one will see that very search and what it has produced. 
It seems hardly necessary to argue the deterrence case at this stage. I take the point that was made by the honourable member for Moreton. He said that it is really refuted by the statistics. It has been shown time and again throughout history that the death penalty has not deterred. Societies that kill criminals have not had significantly lower crime rates than those that do not. Historically they have often been higher. This applies even in Australia. The figures that were produced last year in answer to a question I put to the then Minister for the Interior, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  prove that with the same or substantially the same set of laws in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory the crime rate in the Northern Territory was 30-odd times higher than in the Australian Capital Territory. They have the same punishments, the same deterrents, the same police forces and the same chances of capture. 
That is right, they have different conditions. But punishment had nothing to do with it. One could still be hanged for murder. Murders were committed in the Northern Territory about 5 or 6 times as often as down here. The deterrent meant nothing. There is one aspect about deterrence which I would like to point out and which always strikes me as being significant. I was brought up on the deterrence argument, I suppose like all lawyers, but basically it is immoral. It rests behind most of the systems of criminal law except when revenge or retribution rest behind them. Reform is something that is thrown in for good measure, although no prison or punishment ever reforms. In one sense deterrence is a complete negation of justice and individual rights. To punish the honourable member for Moreton by hanging him, whipping him or fining him in order to deter the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party is completely immoral. To punish A in order to deter B is completely immoral. If an individual bases his support for hanging on this ground - there are many among the minority who still support it who do take this ground - I suggest that his position is basically immoral and should be shown to be immoral. Deterrence and punishment generally should be kept to a minimum. 
This is what  Mr John  Stuart Mill and all the great utilitarians said: Punishment is an evil. It hurts. Every civilised society should have it as an absolute minimum. Yet here we have the Country Party spokesman saying: 'For God's sake hang on to it. Do not give it up.' If the argument of deterrence is basically immoral, what ground is left on which a reasonable person can support the death penalty? There is none. Removal of the death penalty will make our society no less safe. This has been confirmed time and again by countries which have already taken this overdue step. They have not experienced any causally related rise in the incidence of what had been capital crimes. In addition, the most recent British royal commission on capital punishment, after hearing evidence from all over the world, concluded: 
The evidence that we ourselves received in these countries was also to the effect that released murderers who commit further crimes of violence are rare- 
That is almost axiomatic nowadays. Burglars might do it, other types of convicted criminals might do it, but murderers hardly ever resort to violence because of the nature of the crime -  and those who become useful citizens are common. 
I am reminded of the Constitution of the United States of America - this applies to some of the State constitutions in the United States of America - where there is a prohibition against cruel and unusual punishments. Some honourable members may recall that a year or so ago the Supreme Court of California, ruling on that section of its Constitution, held that a statute of the State of California that provided for capital punishment was ultra vires, illegal, invalid, because it was a cruel and unusual punishment. 
The British Parliament was told in 1961, in answer to a question, that of the 76 convicted murderers released from life imprisonment in the years 1956 to 1960 only 2 were convicted of subsequent crimes of violence, and they were not murder. Our present system of justice contains ample means to protect society from insane or repetitive murders - recidivists - without bringing down on ourselves the public shame of killing them. High security facilities exist in the great majority of cases in which they are appropriate. Abolition of the death penalty will spur further advances in this field. I suggest that we take this historic step for Australia and support the Bill. 
There are one or two other aspects of the Bill which may be persuasive to honourable members. A very famous German philospher - not one whom I usually quote - Nietzsche, once said: 'Distrust everyone in which an impulse to punish is powerful.' That is completely consistent with what I was putting a little while ago, that there is a thread running through the opposition to this Bill that comes not from the Liberal Party, as I understand the situation - that is to its credit - but from the Country Party, which is not to its credit. There is a thread running through it; they want to hang on to this barbaric penalty. They have an impulse to punish. George Bernard Shaw said that flogging is a form of debauchery. If flogging is a form of debauchery, what is judicial murder? What is capital punishment? It is the extreme form of debauchery. How long ago was it that slaves running away in the United States of America when caught were killed by the courts? It was Byron who said: 
Is there not enough blood on your penal code that you want to keep this kind of section here? 
Finally I was struck in the little research I did on the subject - I think this is one of those subjects people feel about rather than read about, although perhaps feelings come from years of thinking and reading about the subject - by the remarks of that gentleman Robespierre of French revolution fame on the subject when he spoke in 18th century language about the duty of the law maker. When he got to the capital punishment aspect of it, with some kind of foresight perhaps he said: 
When it occurs man is no longer an object so sacred as before. One has a lower idea of his dignity when public authority makes light of his life. The idea of the murder filters with less horror when the law itself sets the example and provides the spectacle. The horror of the crime diminishes from the time the law no longer punishes it except by another crime. Have a care not to confound the efficacy of punishment with excessive severity. The one is absolutely opposed to the other. Everything favours moderate laws. Everything conspires against cruel laws. 
We have had a cruel law on the statute books of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory for too long. I support the Bill. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment, the principal reasons of course having already been given in the second reading debate. It is the nature of the punishment, the barbarity of it, to which we have directed our attention. As the honourable member for Isaacs pointed out so eloquently in his speech on the second reading, this matter is not a party issue. He has had a vast experience of Service life and Service conditions, a wide knowledge of the history of Service life and 
Service conditions. He brought his own experience and his own view to this question. As he said, the efficiency of Service life and Service forces does not depend upon such a barbaric penalty lying behind these criminal laws. I think it is a great shame that in many waysthe disciplinary codes of the Australian Services still depend to such a large degree on imperial statutes. We know that for many years attempts have been made to bring forward a common code of criminal justice for the armed forces in Australia. We do not know the difficulties involved. We know that the various Services have taken different points of view on the punishment aspect of discipline and in part on this question of capital punishment. But surely if all our common sense tells us that the efficiency of the Services depends on morale, esprit de corps - spirit, if you like - we do not need this residual threat of force. 
I can remember a story, if the Committee will permit me to tell it, concerning a relative of mine who holds the Military Cross or Military Medal - I am not sure which - from World War I. He served as an artillery officer. He tells the story of how, when in the first Australian Imperial Forces he was serving with some British colleagues, he came across some British troops who, in the tradition of the British Army of that day, were tied to the wheel of a gun carriage as a form of punishment imposed on them by their officers of that day. There was a spirit of that sort. He was appalled as an Australian when he saw that different tradition. I express no view on it other than that the British Army fought no better for following a policy of punishment of that sort than the first AIF fought following a policy that did not impose such punishment on its men. 
Be it folklore or not, it was the recounted experience of a man whose word I value and whose judgment I value, an Australian officer during the First World War. It is for those reasons, which were so more eloquently put by the honourable member for Isaacs, that 1 oppose the amendment. 
Just briefly in reply to the points which have been made. I do not want to repeat what has already been said because the House has other business to proceed to. But surely it comes to this: There are enormous problems and injustices if we stipulate a crime of murder for ordinary victims and impose one penalty and then bring in a crime of murder for a different category of persons - in this case, a policeman or a prison officer - and set an entirely different penalty. In both categories the victims are human beings. One, of course, does have an enormous amount of sympathy for the arduous and difficult roles played by police officers in performing their duties, and of prison officers in performing their duties. 
Again I have to quote the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  - and I am quite happy to do so. We all know that prisons are places of security. I do not know of any social mischief, if you like, or any social danger of the sort described that exists in prisons. I have always subscribed to the view that the fewer criminal laws there are the better. We find a social mischief or an annoyance or something that has to be attended to and then reluctantly if possible make criminal laws to cover them. This is the thinking, as I understand it, of all enlightened criminologists and penal reformers. In this case the Opposition is saying that we should make an additional criminal law. I ask Opposition supporters: What evidence do you have that it is required? I do not know of any evidence that exists. I can understand the theoretical argument but I know of no practical application where the theoretical argument has been demonstrated to be valid. I say again that we debase us all when we go through this public spectacle of hanging people in capital punishment. 
Amendment negatived. 
The point of difference between the Government and the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  and those few members of the Liberal Party who support that proposition and the members of the Australian Country Party who all support it is that we do not believe that anything is to be gained by increasing the amount of violence in the world. I just give honourable members the history of crime. Honourable members will remember that this country came into being because of the savage, barbaric penal laws of 18th century Britain where a person could be punished with 7 years transportation for stealing a loaf of bread. That did not stop people stealing bread. It was a time as was pointed out in the earlier stage of the debate, when capital punishment existed in a most barbaric form for a multiplicity of offences. It did not exist in just a simple form, if one can have a simple form of administering death. However, that did not stop crime and that is the whole evidence that has been put before the world since the world began. It does not stop crime. 
But when you create violence and put the sanctity of the State behind it, you encourage violence, and violence feeds on violence. We are all appalled by the hi-jacking incidents which have occurred, but does anyone seriously believe that the hi-jackers are going to stop just because we increase the penalty? The Japanese and Arab gentlemen who did what they did a little while ago in, 1 think, Beirut, were fanatics. I can sympathise with but must reject the argument of the people who say: 'Look what they did. They were Kamikaze-type people. When we get the survivors we will off with their heads and destroy them'. I can understand that argument, but I reject it. I completely reject also the argument that to let it be known in advance that the death penalty will be imposed will stop the incidents. It will not stop them. In fact, there is a lot to be said for the argument that the death penalty is exactly what they want. They want to be made martyrs. 
I just put to honourable members that that is the whole lesson of history. In other words, if honourable members reflect on it, they will find that if we want to have a less violent world we should progressively remove violence and should make our state and administration progressively less violent. Criminal law is the essence of violence - the less violent it becomes, the more healthy and sane the community will be. 
Amendment negatived. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  seemed to be saying that no harm is done by imposing capital punishment on this type of crime because we do not have to enforce the law. I would suggest to the honourable member that that is a very dangerous concept to play with because when we make a law, that law is there to be applied as impartially as human behaviour and conduct can bring it about. We all know the experience of appearing before judges following a conviction and following an address by counsel for leniency and hearing the judge say: 'Look, Parliament said that this kind of offence should attract that kind of a penalty or punishment. How can I give you' less for your crime than what Parliament said the crime should warrant, when there it is on the statute book?' Those of us who have appeared in courts have had that experience. Judges take their guide - it is only a guide - in that way. But once' we start fiddling -with this notion of not enforcing a law, I suggest that we are into a very dangerous area of administrative discretion and perhaps of ministerial discretion which poses all sorts of problems. It would enable us to bypass the courts. I know that there is a discretion as to whether the Crown should prosecute, but surely this is a discretion which should be kept to the very minimum. If there is evidence of a breach of the law and if the police have evidence to justify a prosecution, normally it should follow that there would be a prosecution. 
Apart from that, may I put this additional thought in the context of the Geneva conventions: We must consider that the offences that are likely to occur will occur in wartime. A war might go on for years and one side or another will win that war. At the time when the offender is apprehended, generally, from the losing side, although one would hope that we could move to the stage where an offender might also be apprehended from the winning side - offences occur on both sides - passions will have cooled and there will be a climate of peace. If we are going to put our administration of justice into play at that stage, we would find it much easier to be objective if we had a penalty which could be imposed through the courts, which was not barbaric and which did not cause a sense of outrage. If we are going to say, perhaps years later, This man or woman should be hanged for a crime that occurred many years ago', again I suggest that we would be in trouble. I return to the basic proposition which I put before - that we can not create deterrence, particularly in the context of war. The person who is going to break the Geneva conventions, whatever side he is fighting on, whatever army he belongs to or whatever police force or whatever country he belongs to, firmly believes that his country is going to win. The fact that there is as a deterrent somewhere that he does not even know about, a provision that calls for capital punishment - that he be hanged - is certainly not going to deter him in any way. So, you are driven back to satisfying a sense of outrage, a sense of retribution and revenge. Honourable members who are honest will grant that it is only satisfying a sense of outrage and revenge. That is all that is left. 
Amendment negatived. "  Mr SINCLAIR-  :(New .England) (6.6) - I move:'  
After clause 5 add the following new clause: '6. This Act does not apply to or in relation to the offence of murder when committed for the purpose of or in the course of unlawful political or terrorist activity'. 
The incidence of bomb attacks in London in the last few weeks, the nature of the concern at the presence of Arab terrorists in Australia today, the likelihood of action by terrorists tomorrow, whatever their national origin, make up the reason for moving this motion. I concede that given the degree to which life seems to be of no consequence to the criminals who participate in the disruption of the normal way of life of people in so many parts of the world, there is no way in which one can adequately ensure their containment unless the death penalty is retained in this area. However, it is appalling to think that there may be in any way a passing up of an opportunity to apply the ultimate sanction to persons who engage m such anti-social and anti-personal activities. Although political and terrorist activities seem to be developing rather than dwindling I think they are in part the product of the general attitudes that are unfortunately expressed by many who are do-gooders, who believe that criminals should be protected rather than society itself. It is there that I find myself at variance with the reasons that are advanced by those people who seek the abolition of capital punishment. 1 can understand that human life must be sacred but I do not concede that one should be concerned more for the life of a criminal than for the lives of men, women and children who are citizens of this country. 
To my mind  the  abolition of capital punishment is denying the sanctity of the lives of those people who comprise the big percentage of our population. It denies the sanctity of their lives while preserving it for the perpetrators of these outrages against mankind. 
There  can be no proper expression of the condemnation which I am sure we all feel for political and terrorist activities but equally I do not believe that the condemnation can be adequately expressed unless the ultimate sanction is available. For that reason I believe it essential for capital punishment to be retained. That is why I have moved the amendment. 
That is consistent with it, too. We have released more documents and more reports and there has been less secrecy than before. Of course, it is like Pandora's box. The more you are public and open the more you are criticised, and we welcome criticism. 
Well, you people were in power for 23 years. Very skilfully, you told no one anything. You kept your secrets to yourselves. You were not particularly democratic. You remained in power for 23 years. One wonders which is the better method. I suggest ours is. The honourable member for Griffith spoke about caucus. I appreciate  his  tactics in using the word 'caucus', relying in a perhaps opportunistic way on the fact that many people would not know what the word means. 
I mean people outside this place. It is the Parliamentary Labor Party, every one of us who is elected. Our practice, our policy and our firm conviction that it is the supreme body here in this place are far superior to your system of - what shall I call it? When it once worked it was the Fuhrer princip. There was no discussion at all. In some unholy coalition the Liberal Party, which occasionally might want to do something progressive, was always prevented by the Country Party, which would not let the Liberal Party do it. The Liberal Party could not govern without the Country Party. The Liberal Party knew it and the Country Party knew it, and so Australia did nothing for 23 years. So we make no apology for the caucus being a body which can discuss things openly. It should not be quite as open as it is; I appreciate that. 
I am not answering a question on the airport. I am taking up some of the points that the honourable member raised. We are rather proud of the caucus system in this place and we say that it is far superior to the Opposition's system. 
Yes, he is indeed. He argues forcefully and convincingly and he is a very great Prime Minister because he has to justify his views in the caucus - something that Prime Ministers on your side have never had to do. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is one of 2 Bills which originated in the Senate. The purpose of the Extradition (Foreign States) Bill before the House is to give effect in Australian law to a number of new extradition treaties negotiated with foreign countries during the term of office of the former Government. 
The purpose of the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill, also before the House, is to keep the Act in line with the amendments that are being proposed in the other Bill to the Extradition (Foreign States) Act so far as is compatible with the provisions of the London Scheme of 1966 relating to extradition between Commonwealth countries. Some of the amendments had been proposed as ancillary matters in the London Scheme. 
The Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1966- 1972, which this Bill proposes to amend, continued in force for the time being the old extradition arrangements with foreign countries that apply to Australia by virtue of treaties entered into by the United Kingdom and of the old Imperial Acts known as the Extradition Acts, 1870 to 1935. The Extradition (Foreign States) Act opened the way, however, for Australia to introduce its own extradition treaty system. Following the entry into force of the Extradition (Foreign States) Act, the previous Government, as I have indicated, negotiated a number of treaties with foreign countries. The countries are the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Israel, Austria, Sweden and the United States of America. 
The Australian Labor Party Government has examined the treaties and is happy to accept them and to make, in the present Bill, legislative provision for carrying the treaties into effect. Earlier this year 2 of the treaties - with Sweden and Austria - were signed. These were tabled in the Parliament in May. I do not say anything new, so far as the present Government is concerned, when I add that the Government agrees entirely with the view that Australia, as an independent nation, should stand on its own feet both in this matter of extradition and in other matters. Regrettably it was not until 1966 that the first steps were taken whereby Australia could begin to shed itself of the old extradition system. The Government will consider as quickly as possible whether Australia should negotiate in its own right extradition treaties with other countries in addition to those that I have just mentioned to the House. Honourable members will know that, in fields other than extradition, the Australian Government is likewise moving to ensure that the system of law that applies in this country is a system consistent with Australia's status as a sovereign nation. 
It is appropriate that I should comment briefly on the need for extradition arrange ments with other countries, especially in the times in which we live today. The growth of criminal offences and the ease of communication between countries have resulted in a growing interdependence of the members of the international community. The sophistication of crime and of criminals continues to increase, especially in the area of what has come to be known as white collar crime. The conduct of fraudulent enterprises often extending beyond national boundaries, the carrying out of sophisticated robberies, often involving large sums of money, the forging of bank notes and schemes of extortion not only provide the criminal with lucrative returns for his illegal enterprise but also provide him with the means of escape from the place where his crime is committed. The increasing speed and facilities for air travel, including relaxation of visas and other formalities, means that escape from one country to another can be completed in a matter of hours. After an original escape to one country with which extradition arrangements exist, a criminal can, once put on the alert, make a similarly quick escape to a further country with which extradition arrangements may not exist. Law enforcement authorities must nowadays act more quickly in extradition matters than used to be necessary. Civil aviation is especially vulnerable to criminal activity. The commission of crimes on board aircraft, the hijacking of aircraft and the infliction of damage to aircraft have all become the subject of international agreements. These reflect the need for concerted international action against criminals who themselves operate on that basis. Effective action against these criminals is necessary to ensure their punishment and to deter others. 
In this regard the present Bills contain provisions to give effect to the extradition clauses in Article 8 of the Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation. The provisions will complete the legislative changes necessary to Australian law following upon the enactment of the Crimes (Protection of Aircraft) Act 1973, to enable that Convention to come into full force and effect in Australia. The provisions are very similar to those embodied in the amending extradition legislation of 1972 that gave effect to the extradition provisions of The Hague Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft that are identical to those of the Montreal Convention, 
We need to reduce the number of places where criminals can find sanctuary. Our efforts to do this have simply not kept pace with the increase in crime, and the increased opportunities for criminals to move from one country to another. We must see extradition arrangements as having the purpose not just of assisting individual countries in the administration of their own criminal laws, but of catering for interests of the law abiding public who are substantially the same the world over. Regrettably it is a fact of life that law enforcement authorities are losing ground in their struggle to protect those interests. There is no panacea for 'this. An increasingly positive approach to extradition is one means - and an important means - 'that we have at our disposal to tackle the problem. The treaties that have recently been negotiated by Australia and the proposed legislation to which I am mow speaking provide a step forward in the right direction. It is intended that further steps should be taken to conclude treaty arrangements with additional countries, whereever possible, at the first opportunity. 
The recently negotiated treaties contain provisions that are new to Australia when compared to the old inherited extradition treaties. The proposed legislation has taken account of these new provisions to enable Australia to give effect to the new treaties. The main provisions in these treaties to which I refer are: Extradition is provided for in respect of extradition offences committed extra territorially; an offence against the law relating to genocide, referred to in the Genocide Convention Act 1949, as well as the taking of the life of a Head of State or a member of his or her family are not to be considered as crimes of a political character; a very important change has been made to the speciality rule so that an extradited person may be dealt with by the requesting country or be surrendered to a third state for offences other than those upon which the extradition was based where consent is given by the executive authority of the requested country; delivery at the time of surrender of any article that may be material evidence in proving an offence to which the requisition for the surrender of the fugitive relates; the custody of a fugitive who is in transit from one state to a third state; in the case of the United States of America, provision is made for the extradition for federal offences where there is an additional element in the extradi tion offence of such matters as the use of interstate facilities or use of mails or transporting across the borders of states. 
Many of the matters to which I have adverted are also included in the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill so that the extradition legislation relating to foreign States and Commonwealth countries will be kept in line. The provisions in the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill also include matters that were proposed under the ancillary provisions of the London scheme. These provisions relate to the transit of a fugitive offender and the delivery of property found in his possession at the time of his arrest, which may be material to proof of the offence with which he is charged. One of the main provisions that I have just referred to relates to the speciality rule. This is the rule that requires that in general an offender who is returned to a country can be prosecuted by the requesting state or transferred to a third state only for the offence for which he was returned. The Act presently contains an important modification to the rule to allow a person to be dealt with for another extraditable offence that is provable upon the same facts as were involved for the original offence. 
It is proposed in this Bill to provide a consent modification in order to effect a significant change to the old form of the speciality rule. The purpose of the consent modification is to enable the executive authority of a requested country to agree to a requesting country dealing with an extradited person for another extraditable offence other than that for which he was surrendered. The basic rationale of the speciality rule is to safeguard the liberty of the person and protect his human rights, especially where a person is only accused of an offence. The problem has been to achieve a balance between that principle of human rights on the one hand and efficient law enforcement on the other. In its modern form, incorporating the consent provision as first included in the 1957 European Convention on Extradition, this balance is achieved. 
The consent modification has been included in recent treaties made between foreign states and in the draft treaties recently negotiated by Australia, lt gives flexibility to and removes the inhibiting effect of the otherwise strict speciality rule and at the same time safeguards the human rights of the accused person. The consent modification was included in the London scheme of 1966. It is already included in the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Act. At the Commonwealth Law Ministers Conference in London in January this year the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  stated that an appropriate ground upon which consent might be given under the speciality rule would be that further offences in respect of which consent was granted were part of a series of crimes similar to those for which extradition was originally sought. He expressed concern that there should not be an unduly restrictive approach to the discretionary power of consent and that what was required was a proper review of the whole course of an offender's conduct so that a request for extradition on additional charges could be considered in its proper perspective. 
An important change is proposed in the Bills. It is a change to the provisions of the Principal Acts of 1966 relating to restrictions upon surrender of a fugitive where he could be prejudiced on account of race, religion, nationality or political opinions. Whereas the existing provisions of the principal Acts provide that the restriction upon surrender in such circumstances shall depend upon the Attorney-General having substantial grounds for believing that the fugitive could be prejudiced, the amendment proposes to change that subjective test into an objective one of where 'there are' substantial grounds for believing that the fugitive could be prejudiced. The purpose is to enable the courts to more easily review the actions of the executive in any case where such circumstances arise. It will provide in this regard a greater safeguard for the individual. 
As I stated earlier in this speech the Government has approved the new treaties and the formal procedures for their signing have already been taken in respect of Sweden and Austria and are being taken in regard to the other countries concerned. The Extradition (Foreign States) Bill that I present to honourable members will make necessary legislative provision for carrying the treaties into effect. 
The Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill will give effect to certain ancillary matters in the London scheme. It, as does the other Bill, also takes account of the international conventions concerning genocide, hijacking of and damage to aircraft, prostitution, narcotic drugs and psychotropic sub stances and keeps the extradition legislation relating to Commonwealth countries  in  line with that relating to foreign states. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion toy  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill. As I have already explained its purpose in speaking to the Extradition (Foreign States) Bill, there is no need for me to speak further on this measure. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The necessary information is being compiled. When this is received  I  will make it available  to  the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 1972-73 operating  loss  was $869,772. 
, (3) and (4) To meet the needs of the citizens of Canberra it is proposed to: 
Order a total of 99 new buses with improved seating and internal fittings. 
To progressively introduce new timetables lowering the frequency from a basic 30 minute service to 15 minutes. Peak hour services will run at six minute Intervals. 
To improve bus shelters and provide new ones. 
To promote the bus service by a publicity campaign. This will be slanted to 'how to use* information and helping people understand the service. 
To experiment with free travel to measure desired improvements. (Vi) To develop a system of priority bus lanes through congested areas as the need arises. These initiatives are seen as first steps towards better public transport for Canberra. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Several major inquiries are current which have a bearing on any future Housing Authority. I have requested the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory to examine and report on the most appropriate form of self-Government for the Territory, The issue of an independent Housing Authority seems related to the self-Government inquiry. There is also a wide ranging inquiry into systems of land tenure and disposal which may impact on future arrangements for provision of accommodation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I have continued the practice of seeking the advice of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council on proposed Ordinances for the Australian Capital Territory which would, if made, be administered by the Minister for the Capital Territory. As a matter of course draft Ordinances are sent to the Advisory Council but there have been several occasions when for reasons of urgency it was necessary to submit proposed Ordinances to the Executive Council without prior consideration by the Advisory Council. As far as practicable the  Chairman  has been informed of the action being taken and the reasons for the urgency. 
The honourable member can be assured that I value the advice of Council administrators. 
Honourable members will be aware from the report tabled last week that it contains suggestions and comments from a very eminent American professor, skilled and knowledgeable in this branch of the law. I found the reading of that report very, very interesting. Of course, the Government is not committed to the recommendations contained in it. It deals with such diverse subjects as insider trading, short sales, breaches of fiduciary duty and all the problems that arise from the capital market and the securities industry in Australia and in the United States, drawing on the United States experience. I know that the Attorney-General in the Senate is anxious or hoping to introduce a single companies law on this subject this session, although there are difficulties about it. There is, for example, a report that has not yet been received from the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, which presumably would be a welcome contribution on the subject. The American scene, as we all know, is different from the Australian scene. The professor deals with the advantages of some of the American features, and it is interesting that he comes down wholeheartedly in favour of a single companies law for the whole of Australia dealing with this problem. 
May I thank the Prime Minister for the opportunity to answer the question. It is well known that decisions taken about the middle of 1970 by the then Government restricted the expenditure on the servicing of land in Canberra and it is also well known that it takes  2i  to 3 years to produce a serviced block of land to the quality required in Canberra. What was done back in 1970 and in 1971 by stopping the input of money for the production of serviced land  m  Canberra produced the mess that we inherited when we took over from the honourable member who asked the question. It is also well known that all during last year land prices escalated continuously under his administration. When we took over- 
No. When we took over the pattern continued. 
No, it continued. I made a special trip to Western Australia to study the system over there. I have also discussed the problem with everybody who is knowledgeable in this field. The decision to stop land auctions was made deliberately and after a lot of thought and we are curtailing the escalation of land prices in Canberra. I have no hesitation in saying that the solution to the mess that we inherited from the previous Government is in sight. I invite honourable members to look at advertisements for land and houses in the 'Canberra Times' over the last month and I challenge them to deny this. 
No, look at the advertisements. I challenge honourable members to deny this. 
They have not. 
 I was made aware of one complaint this morning. It concerns a Commonwealth car, No. 31, which became part of the Commonwealth fleet only about four or five months ago. This was a brand new Galaxy LTD. For most of that period of four or five months it has been off the road because of one defect or another and because of other difficulties that have flowed through from the manufacturers and their agents in the servicing of the fleet. At times this vehicle has had to be cannibalised to provide spare parts for other Commonwealth vehicles. Surely this is a scandalous situation. My attention was drawn to it by a particular driver. When he took delivery of the car he made his usual inspection and found that a windscreen wiper was missing. What sort of quality control is this? It is consistent with the remarks I heard attributed to the Minister for Transport this morning and it is linked up with some of the questions on consumer protection with which the Minister for Science is concerned. 
Notwithstanding that a windscreen wiper was missing from a brand new car which retails for more than $8,000, the car has been virtually - largely - off the road for four or five months and has been used as a source of spare parts for other vehicles because spare parts cannot be obtained pursuant to the agreement. This was a contract entered into under the previous Administration. I do not know what selection process was followed or what guarantees were accepted from the manaufacturer but this matter is going to be the subject of further investigation. If that is the sort of quality control that we are to get on brand new vehicles which retail for more than $8,000 on the Australian market, when the time comes for renewing that fleet, if I have anything to say about it the competitors of the Ford Motor Company will be considered. 
We have heard the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  describe this Bill as an attack on the Australian community. This Bill seeks to have a referendum to give the Australian Parliament a power it does not have over the economy of Australia. Opposition supporters describe this Bill as a Bill that seeks to give the Australian Parliament a power to administer the Australian economy - as an attack on the Australian people. One would not have to dwell too long on this to realise that we are seeing Opposition spokesmen in their true colours. One does not often see them in their true colours but one often feels that what they are saying is: 'We seek a power if the Australian people will give it to us to do something about inflation.' The Opposition to a man, they say, refuse to give us that power. They refuse to give the Australian Parliament the capacity to try to do something about inflation. This is surely consistent with the Opposition's whole attitude, its whole frame of reference because a control over prices, a control that would allow inflation to be reduced strikes at the interests of the people whom the Opposition represents. Essentially, of course, those people represent the private sector of the economy. 
I recognise that profit plays an incredibly important role in any mixed economy, in any free enterprise economy and in any economy such as we have in Australia at this stage. But as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said, you have to look at the social equation. There is the profit motive which produces an income to the employing groups, the manufacturing groups. The other side of the equation produces an income usually in the form of wages of the wage earners who are the overwhelming mass of Australians. All we say is this: In the interests of plain ordinary "fairness and common decency 85 per cent of Australians have since about 1907 had a very effective form of control over wage increases. In that year the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act was enacted because the Constitution gave this Parliament the power to make a law on that subject. Of course if this Opposition had been here at that time it would have argued that we should not have had that power. It would not have this Parliament have any power because it is in the interests of the people it represents that this Parliament should have as little power as possible. But back in 1907 that power to make laws with regard to the settlement of industrial disputes was enacted and approximately 85 per cent of Australians since that time have had a very effective series of controls over wage and salary increases. 
I should not have to remind honourable members of the normal process that takes place in Australia when a vast mass of wage earners seek a wage increase. Through their organisation, usually a trade union or a professional association, they lodge a log of claims which cannot just be put up and accepted. When honourable members in this House tried to put up their salaries two or three years ago they found they could not just put their wages up and we waited years before they were increased. So there is a built-in safeguard against wage earners or salary earners putting up their wages or salaries. In applications for wage increases it is a normal requirement that a log of claims of some sort be served on the employer or group of employers. It is in their very interests in maintaining profit margins, if you like, to give that log of claims for a salary or wage increase a very close look, to oppose it, to reject it or to keep it within bounds if they possibly can. 
So there are built-in safeguards, firstly, for the employers who do not want to give it unless it has to be given; secondly, of course the machinery that exists to resolve a dispute that occurs when the employer or group of employers cannot settle their differences with the trade unions. It then goes to the conciliator and ultimately an arbitrator who presides over the matter and resolves the dispute. So there is a built-in system of control to prevent excessive wage increases in Australia. That is my answer to the challenge of the honourable member for Flinders in regard to what he said about wage controls in this country. We do have this control. There is no other comparable country in the world - I emphasise the words 'no other comparable country in the world' - with the advantage of a built-in system of wage control that Australia has. It therefore follows that because wage increases have to be justified in a great majority of cases, if you can control price increases or reduce the rate at which prices are increasing you will in effect reduce the rate at which wages go up. If you can keep prices down wages will not go up so fast because that is what happens every time wages increase. It would go against anybody's experience to deny it. Whenever  a  union or a group of unions goes before an arbitration tribunal it says: 'Prices have gone up, allow us to put our wages up'. That is their case. 
Invariably it is 90 per cent of their case that price increases have already taken place and they relate it to increases in productivity, the maintenance of parity, margins and things of that sort. But in essence they say: 'Prices have gone up so do not let us fall behind.' They have to justify wage increases which they are seeking. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said several times, this is one of the very few countries if not the only country where the national Parliament is denied the right to make laws with regard to prices. In the overall interest of fairness I am convinced and I put it to honourable members that they also would be convinced that if it is fair for the wage earner to have to justify his wage increases in most cases or in many cases equally it should be fair for the person who sets prices to have to justify his price increases because we do have a system of price control in this country. The only feature about it is that it is not in many cases responsible to the public interest. 
Prices are set by large corporations and the large chain stores which in very few cases are activated only by considerations of competition. One only has to look at identical advertisements that are placed in, say, the 'Canberra Times' as against those appearing in Sydney newspapers by some of the chain stores advertising a particular commodity. One will see that the great difference in the price that is set for that commodity is not related to cost in any way at all. The prices they choose to set are not determined in any way by what is in the public interest. The prices they choose to set are all too often affected or influenced by the capacity of the customer to pay. It is axiomatic. I grew up in a shop. When my father put the price on a dozen apples it was determined not so much by what they cost him as by what he could get from the public; what he could reasonably expect to sell them for or what people would be prepared to pay for them. 
Before I come to that let me put an additional point to reinforce the argument. In communities that are better off than others - in Pymble, for example - people will pay more for a loaf of bread or a pound of steak than people will pay in Balmain. The honourable member for North Sydney asked what was wrong with that. When this is taken to the extreme and there is lack of competition with a rising expectancy of increasing standards of living, about which the Treasurer spoke so eloquently, particularly in other countries - the third world all wanting to live a little better after thousands of years - there is a demand on our resources which we never had before, for meat in particular, and other commodities. This is why we are importing inflation. I have expressed it very simply, of course, but this plays a large part in the present situation. One of the tragedies of the situation in which we find ourselves is that this Government was left completely defenceless by the previous Government in terms of taking measures to counteract this kind of inflation. What mechanisms, devices or tools did the previous Government leave us? None! With the very limited constitutional power we have the Government has done a few things. It has revalued the Australian dollar to reduce the price of imports but, because the Opposition apparently does not want us to have the power, we cannot ensure that the reduced prices for imports are passed on to the consumers. That, of course, would require a form of price control. I illustrate my point in this way: I represent the Australian Capital Territory. I can make laws for the Australian Capital Territory that do not have the inhibitions about them that outside laws have. 
Be that as it may, this is a non sequitur. On 1 January 1974 a New South Wales road tax will be removed. This tax attaches to many goods coming into the Aus tralian Capital Territory at present. If I do nothing, there is no way in the world whereby the savings resulting from the removal of that tax will be passed on to the consumer - the customer who goes into a shop in Canberra. The savings will not be passed on because it is against the nature of the system that they should be passed on. The shopkeeper - I do not blame him because it is human nature - will still charge the same price although he will be getting the goods here for less than he paid before. I would have difficulty in some respects in imposing price control in the Australian Capital Territory because Canberra is an island. Goods come here from New South Wales. If I were to say 'Hold the present prices' or 'Reduce prices by the amount of the tax removed' I might not get those goods. The person in New South Wales could say I will sell my goods in New South Wales' and I might not get them. This is another example of the incredible situation of cutting up Australia into artificial legal divisions called States. The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  is shaking his head. If he wanted to work out a system of government that would make it difficult for the Australian Government to work efficiently he could not devise a system more effective than the present Australian system of government. This has nothing to do with politics but it is a crazy, ridiculous system in its present form. 
I do not. The present system does not reflect regions nor does it reflect regional groupings of commerce or people. However, it artificially divides areas so that there is division of power. I shall not continue with this train of thought but one hears hypocrisy in arguments whenever one listens to a debate such as this. The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  supporting the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  spoke of a circuit breaker. He wants some kind of a 90-day freeze on prices coupled with some kind of a 90-day freeze on wages but he knows that the Australian Government has no power to act in this way. I brought into the chamber with me a book on constitutional law, only because it conveniently contains a copy of the Constitution. If honourable members examine section 51 of the Constitution and the paragraphs thereto they will see there set out the powers of the Australian Parliament. No reference will be found to prices. 
There is no way in the world by which the Australian Government can impose price control as the law stands at present, nor can it impose control on wages. 
From the corporation power. 
(Because a lot of goods which are sold are not sold by companies. Let us imagine that the Leader of the Country Party is correct when he talks of a circuit breaker. What sort of a circuit breaker would it be? It would simply be putting the lid on inflation and it would be more like a bomb than a circuit breaker. It would blow up when he took it off. I put this to the House: The Government, with the limited powers that it has, has taken more steps in the 8 to 9 months it has been in power to do something about the inflationary situation - a defenceless situation it inherited from the previous Government - than the previous Government ever did. I have mentioned revaluation. Did the previous Government, when it was faced with the problem a year or so ago, revalue the Australian dollar? The Liberals wanted to do so, but they were not allowed by the Country Party. Did the previous Government have the guts to do anything about tariffs? Not on your life! It took the Labor Party to take action so that some cheap imported goods could be encouraged into Australia. 
Did the previous Government consider that it might be to our advantage to know something more about what causes prices to go up, resulting in inflation? No, it did nothing. The Government established the Joint Committee on Prices under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  That Committee consists of members of all parties and it is charged with studying and investigating this very complex problem that afflicts every country with an economy similar to our own. The Government set up the Prices Justification Tribunal, with all the limitations it has. We recognised its limitations. The Constitution does not allow the Australian Parliament - the Parliament that is thought by Australians to have the power to govern for them - to do what it can with the limited facilities given to it. Recently, of course, the Government has activated the role of the Reserve 
Bank. This will be the subject of another debate. The Government has done a lot. None of these devices or tools would have been tried by the previous Government now sitting in Opposition, yet honourable members opposite complain. They were even against an incomes and prices policy last year. Now in Opposition they beat the air and beat their chests, like galahs sitting on a dead tree with a bushfire sweeping towards them, saying: T&gt;o something'. Our reply is: 'All right. Give us the powers to make laws with regard to prices'. But what do they do? They say: 'Not on your life. Not that. Do something else'. 
In the limited time available to me it is interesting to look through die Australian Constitution. If honourable members examine section 51 they will see the powers given to the Australian Parliament back in 1900. It was given power to make laws concerning banking. If the Australian Parliament had not been given that power and the Labor Government in 1973 sought power with respect to banking the present Opposition would be hollering blue murder and saying: TOo not give the Government power'. The Australian Parliament was given power to make laws with respect to bankruptcy. If it had not been given those powers and we were seeking them mow the Opposition would 'be saying 'Do not give the Australian Parliament power to make laws regarding bankruptcy'. The Australian Government was given powers for defence purposes. I know that this is an extreme case but I have no doubt that if, for one reason or another, our founding fathers in 1900 had not seen fit to give the Australian Parliament power with respect to defence and we were now seeking such power because of some threat, the same voices would be heard from the Country Party and the Liberal Party saying: Do not give the Australian Parliament power. The Government cannot be trusted with it'. The Australian Parliament can make laws with regard to bills of exchange. I have no doubt that if it had not been given that power - say because they had not been invented then - and we now sought power we would be told: 'No, you do not need it. Do something else. Do not rely on cheques. Rely on something else. Send carrier pigeons'. The latter suggestion might be more appropriate to the state of mind of honourable members opposite. 
So I could go on, but this is the whole attitude of members of the Opposition. In power they did nothing. They left the people of 
Australia, through their elected representatives, defenceless against the trouble of inflation which arises in a diverse set of ways from overseas as well as from within the country. Honourable members opposite protest and say: 'Do something'. Honourable members on this side of the chamber say: Give us the legal power so that we can try.' Then the Opposition runs for cover and opposes the legislation. A beautiful example was given this morning. The Leader of the Opposition was asking: 'What about incomes?' 

 - Sir Robert Menzies. I could not find a better author. Is it not interesting that a member of the Australian Labor Party will quote  Sir Robert  Menzies? The honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  would not quote him. 
But you would not quote him. The peak of this hypocrisy, this sham, this bad acting, this bad theatre, came this morning when at question time the Leader of Opposition said with the usual waffle: 'You cannot have price control unless you have income control.' The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 'AH right. You introduce a Bill that would allow us to put incomes control to the people of Australia and we will facilitate it. We will back it'. Where is it? The Leader of the Opposition ran so fast that he has not been seen since. That is the test of the sincerity of the Opposition. That is the test of its integrity and its statesmanship. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is the objective of the Government to introduce a fully elected legislative assembly for the Northern Territory by, 31 December 1974. 
Following discussions with myself the Northern Territory Legislative Council prepared a submission on the establishment of a form of self-government which would meet the local needs of the Territory. That submission has been considered by the Government which has decided that the next step towards the introduction of a reformed constitutional structure for the Territory should be to ask the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory to undertake an early inquiry ino the subject. 
The decision in the Australian Capital Territory of course is one for the prices controller of the A.C.T., and as far as the Northern Territory is concerned, one for the prices controller in the Northern Territory. I have already had certain reports from the prices controller of the Northern Territory that relate to petrol prices in the Northern Territory, and they are the subject of further investigations by that prices controller. I think that with those investigations being undertaken there is nothing I can add at this stage in reply to the honourable member's question. But the whole question of price control in the Territories, whether it relates to petrol or any other goods, service or commodity, is one that shows just what can be done with price control when it is used in a selective way. There are a number of ways in which selective price control can be used. The honourable member would know of some cases in the Northern Territory. We have already reduced the price of one commodity sold in Katherine by 3c. But obviously it depends upon the investigation conducted by the price controller into a particular service or commodity. 
Pursuant to section 314 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966-1970,I present the sixth annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
I present a report on the restructuring of the criminal justice system in the Northern Territory. This report was prepared by Professor Gordon Hawkins and  Dr Robert  L. Misner and is dated 20 July 1973. 1 move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
This report is the result of a survey undertaken at my direction by one of Australia's most respected criminologists and penologists, Professor Gordon Hawkins, ably assisted by a visiting American scholar,  Dr Robert  L. Misner. It describes and suggests reforms in the criminal justice and prisons systems of the Northern Territory. In tabling the report for the information of this House I want to make a number of brief comments to set it in perspective. Firstly, I agree with the substantive messages to be found in the document. The situation it discloses is grave. It would be too easy to say that it is the product of years of neglect by the previous Government and to try to lay the blame at the door of any particular group of individuals. That is only part of the story. The neglect, lack of concern and lack of awareness seems to me to be something that can be attributed to all Australians. Politicians of all parties and politicians of the previous Government demonstrated that lack of concern and lack of awareness. 
Perhaps I may concentrate briefly on that part of the report which deals with the prison system of the Northern Territory - a system described in the report as outdated, ineffectual, dehumanising and degrading. In this context I should like to borrow and use words uttered last month by Judge Muirhead who is now the Director of the Australian Institute of Criminology. He said: 
There is not a State in Australia that can be proud of its prisons. 
He continued: 
It's not the fault of prison administrators. It is the fault of governments over the years and of society, which has shut its eyes to conditions in prisons. 
Two points are involved here. In fairness to the Northern Territory, I should like to enlarge on Judge Muirhead's other reference to the lamentable condition of prisons in general in Australia. 
It is my personal view, and has been for many years, that prisons as we know them today are a blot on our society - something to be changed, something that must be changed and improved and something that in many cases should be done away with. Of course there will probably, regrettably, always be a need for some sort of high security restraint to protect society from the compulsive criminal offenders - the recidivists, particularly those who show tendencies to violence. But such people form a minute proportion of the 11,000 Australians immured in our 30-odd prisons and they, at any rate, are more in need of cure or assistance, in many cases, than incarceration. No less a conservative than  President  Nixon of the United States of America has referred to prisons as 'universities of crime'. This is an expression that bears repeating. Prisons are universities of crime and Australian experience confirms this and bears him out. 
Prisons have not turned back the generally rising trend in crime rate over the years. The blunt truth is that prison experience reinforces the spread of criminality. It is a degrading, dehumanising experience. A great number of people in prisons today have been there before and will be in them again. Prison, and the criminal law generally, discriminate against the poor and the badly educated - the people who are already victims of society. Of our prisoners, 80 per cent are people without skills and with little education. Up to the present precious little has been done to provide them with any skills and with any education. Worse still, the Hawkins-Misner report reveals that most of these people should not be in gaol at all, no matter what view is taken of them. The vast majority are people who have been convicted of offences like drunkenness or vagrancy, that is, being found without visible means of support. Being poor is what has put them in gaol. Even non-payment of maintenance results in some going to gaol. Some are openly and without disguise in prison for debt - something that is widely believed to have been abolished in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. These are surely things that a modern community should be able to take care of through community based services instead of uselessly paying out $2,356 a year which it costs to keep a man in the Darwin gaol. If to this charge is added the cost of giving basic support to the prisoner's wife and family a total amount of approximately $7,000 a year in involved in putting a man in gaol. There are better ways in which that money could be spent. 

 Dr Paul Wilson, a reader in sociology at the University of Queensland has recently calculated that 75 per cent of those who pass through our prisons should not be there and should not have received this form of punishment. He has calculated that only 10 to 15 per cent were people for whom the punishment might be justified. These people are intract.ables who require the kind of isolation that our prison facilities impose on everyone who enters our prisons. 
The reason why in 1973 we have this situation in our penal system in the Northern Territory is, in part, that our predecessors allowed the concealment of what was going on. I do not say they encouraged it but they certainly allowed it. They perhaps relied on the old maxim 'out of sight, out of mind'. If the public had had knowledge of the true state of affairs undoubtedly they would not have tolerated it. The reticence of the previous Government may have been due partly to shame but probably more likely it was due to indifference, particularly over the statistics concerning Aborigines in the system. It is perhaps appropriate that my few words now should follow the earlier statement of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant),  because this report concerns an Aboriginal problem. Aborigines constitute only 26 per cent of the population of the Northern Territory but they make up 56 per cent of the gaol population. Frequently they are in gaol for vagrancy or drunkenness. It is public drunkenness, because when they are drunk they are seen to be drunk. They do not have the luxury of a car to drive them home nor do they have the luxury of drinking in their own homes. They are society's most vulnerable and likely victims. 
I will let the Hawkins-Misner report speak for itself on what the investigators found. The picture, in general, is one of needless misery, unenlightened policies, unfair restrictions on liberty and blatant racism. It is a sad situation not easy of solution in any short time or in any simple way. Many of the reforms referred to in the report will come from the office of the Australian Attorney-General. I have discussed problems of this kind with the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  on several occasions. Other reforms will come from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Department of Health and my own Department of the Northern Territory. I hope, and I am confident, that the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory will also be active. It has a committee involved in a study of this problem and is working on this problem. I look forward to receiving its report in the near future. 
Motion (by  Mr Calder)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned 
I think the best way to answer the honourable member's question is to describe the problem briefly. There is pollution in the Molonglo River. It comes from the waste - the tailings - left from the old Captains Flat mine which closed in 1961 or 1962. An estimate that has been given of the degree of the waste is that about 1.5 million cubic yards of slime, dust and other pollutants are in continual danger of sliding into or moving towards the Molonglo River. This situation should be a real lesson to all of us in thinking of such enterprises. Enterprises may operate in a community for years and give profits to people involved in them, but when they close down, years later the community as a whole faces the collective social price of having to fix up the mess. 
There is also this to be said: Very little was done by the previous Government to attend to this particular problem. The legal position is that the State of New South Wales is under an obligation to keep the Molonglo and Queanbeyan Rivers, which flow into the Australian Capital Territory, free of pollution and protected against pollution. This requirement is contained in the Seat of Government Administration Act of 1909 or 1910. The fact is that these rivers are polluted and the State of New South Wales is, I suppose it would have to be said, in breach of its obligations. But one can sympathise with the State Government because it is a feature of modern federalism that the State Government has to say: 'Well, where do we get the funds to put the matter right?' An interdepartmental committee has been working on the subject. I hope, with my colleagues the Minister for Environment and Conservation and the Minister for Urban and Regional Affairs, to be a party in initiating action in order to avoid any future risk of pollution. The problem also is related to the proposal to build the Googong dam. That would turn off waters for an interim period from the Queanbeyan River into the Molonglo River while the dam was being constructed. The fact that pollution is diluted at the moment by that excessive water would stop for awhile, and there is a risk there. But we are hoping to initiate action. 
 I always listen with great interest to the remarks of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  because he and I have something in common. 
No, not much, but we have something in common. We represent the 2 mainland territories. The territories are different in many ways but they do give us a little in common. I am sure both of us realise how grossly under-represented the people of those territories are. I know the Northern Territory better since 1 became the Minister responsible for its administration than 1 did years ago. We know that about 90,000 people are in the Northern Territory and a third of them are Aborigines. There is local government in Darwin and Alice Springs, a Legislative Council with very limited and restricted powers of a legislative kind and no executive powers at all, and one member in this House. 
Kindness on my part to the honourable member for the Northern Territory requires that I do not comment on that suggestion. Every member of this House knows that legislation affecting the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory has to go through both this House and the Senate. People who live in Gove, Katherine, Tennant Creek, Alice Springs, Darwin or any other area of that great part of Australia - the Northern Territory - have no representation at all in the Senate. They have none at all. Measures can be taken in the Senate which vitally affect the people of the Northern Territory yet they have no representatives in the Senate. It can be inferred by the acts of the Country Party and the Liberal Party that the people of the Northern Territory should not have representation in the Senate. Some double dealing goes on - some very keen but not deeply hidden double dealing. 
The Government recently decided to implement the recommendation of the previous Minister for the Interior, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  made last year with regard to the resumption of some 32 square miles of land south of the city of Darwin. I imagine - for similar reasons that the honourable member for Gwydir accepted when he was the Minister for the Interior last year - that it was in the interests of the people of the Northern Territory that the land be resumed. It was never implemented by the previous Government for perhaps a variety of reasons which I do not need to explore. The honourable member for Gwydir said that the measure had his support. We accepted similar thinking when we assumed power. We tried to acquire that land but the resumption was set aside in the Senate, not in this House, on the votes of the Country Party. It was set aside in the Senate by the Country Party for cheap, narrow, nasty and shortsighted political reasons. I understand a similar move is to be made in the near future. That is one example of how the people of the Northern Territory can have their affairs vitally affected by one of the two Houses of this Parliament, the Senate, where they have no representation at all. 
As I understand it, the honourable member for the Northern Territory says that he is not opposed to Senate representation. He will correct me if I am wrong. I entered the chamber after the honourable member had commenced his speech but I understood him to be purporting to say that he was not opposing Senate representation for the Northern Territory. Indeed, how could he? We know that the people of the Northern Territory are under-represented and yet his Party opposes in the Senate any legislation to give the people more representation. Is this not double dealing? Is this not an awareness on the part of the Country Party members in this House where they do not have the majority support, where they are little more than a rump and where, for political reasons, they have to allow the honourable member for the Northern Territory to say that he supports increased representation for the Northern Territory? They allow and encourage him to say so. The honourable member says 'I support the increased representation'. But in the Senate where the Country Party has power and can do something, what does it do? It opposes legislation to give more representation to the Northern Territory. They oppose it. I accuse them of sheer, rank hypocrisy and double dealing. 
In that case, yes. Their actions are sheer, rank hypocrisy. They come in here, mouth platitudes that suggest that they want increased representation for the Northern Territory, when they know that that is what they wish people to hear them saying. But in the place where the vote counts, in the Senate, the Country Party marshalls its votes, all 5 of them - I think it has 5 senators there - and by their vote they say: 'Not on your life'. The Country Party does this in the place where the honourable member for the Northern Territory cannot be blamed for the action that is taken. Yet, it is his Party which takes this action. Do members of the Country Party in this House seriously ask those people who are listening to the radio broadcast of this debate to believe that they do not meet as other political parties meet and decide what their course of action will be on various matters? Do they really expect the people to believe that? There is hypocrisy in that attitude. There is dishonesty in it. It is an example of double dealing. The wider this fact is known the better it will be. This fact bears repeating: Where the honourable member for the Northern Territory can be heard to say something that he believes to be popular, he says it. But does he say the same thing in his own Party room? I will wager not. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Drury)Order! 
Well, I have not finished speaking. 
It would be interesting to know how anyone could claim to be misrepresented or take a point of order unless that person was stung to fury by the truth of the charge. All I said was: Does the honourable member for the Northern Territory raise this matter in his Party room? I wager not. I repeat that. 
Of course I do not know. I am not in your Party. 
I would not want to be in your Party for anything. The truth of my statement is that the Country Party in the place where it counts votes against increased representation for the Northern Territory. It votes against the constituents of the honourable member for the Northern Territory.  His  Party, in the place where it counts, votes against his constituents. This fact must be rammed home. 
I turn to the Australian Capital Territory, the Territory which I represent, and which together with the Northern Territory I try to administer as well as I can. The Australian Capital Territory too is grossly underrepresented. The population of the Australian Capital Territory is approaching 200,000. That population is growing at a rate of approximately 10 per cent a year. The population is likely to continue to increase at that rate, because of the advantages that flow to it from this good Government. But the Australian Capital Territory has one member in this House of Representatives. With 18-year-olds being granted the vote, the number of constituents in the electorate at the moment eligible to be on the roll if an election were to be held tomorrow would be between 90,000 and 95,000- nearly 100,000. The Australian Capital Territory has no representation in the Senate. In that respect it is the same situation as the Northern Territory. The Australian Capital Territory has no local government. Its position in that respect is worse than that of the Northern Territory, yet the population of the Australian Capital Territory is double that of the Northern Territory. The Australian Capital Territory has no State government or anything that resembles a State government. In that sense it is worse off than the Northern Territory which at least has its Legislative Council, with all its imperfections. 
What has happened to create this situation? Where does opposition to additional representation for the Australian Capital Territory come from? This opposition to the idea that the people of the Australian Capital Territory, essentially the people of Canberra, should have some democratic representation in this Parliament comes from  the  Country Party,  the 
Liberal Party and also from that group called the Australian Democratic Labor Party; the members of those Parties are the people who oppose that democratic representation. 
The population of Tasmania is approximately double the population of the Australian Capita] Territory. Let me outline the representation at various levels in Tasmania. The Tasmanian House of Assembly has 35 members. The Tasmanian Upper House has 19 members. Tasmania is represented in the Federal Parliament by 10 senators and 5 members of the House of Representatives. In addition, Tasmania has approximately 500 municipal councillors. In total, that State has approximately 700 full time and part time politicians. 
That is right. Tasmania has some 700 politicians. I repeat the numbers: It has 10 senators and 5 members of the House of Representatives, 35 full time members of the State Lower House, 19 members of the State Upper House, and 500-odd aldermen. Yet, the population of Tasmania is only double the population of the Australian Capital Territory. But the Australian Capital Territory has only one member in the whole of the Federal Parliament - and nothing else. How absurd that situation is. 
When it was in Opposition, the Australian Labor Party tried to gain some increased representation for the Australian Capital Territory as it did for the Northern Territory. Whether the Labor Party wins, loses or draws in an election in those Territories does not matter. Who cares about such things? There is an inequity and an injustice in the representation of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory that we are trying to overcome. We have pushed consistently for years to overcome the present position. All we have ever received is opposition from members of the Country Party, because they do not care. 
In this proposition, we have tried to achieve that end again. The Opposition comes forth predictably as usual. But think of the arguments that it puts forward. Honourable members opposite do not deny the injustice of the position in the Australian Capital Territory when it is compared with the numbers in Tasmania or in any electorate. I do not know whether I can recall the figures relating to the electorate represented by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  in New South 
Wales. I think I worked them out once to show that there were 30 or 40 representatives in that electorate. 
There were 30 or 40 full time or part time politicians who impinged on your area of Gwydir. I refer to members of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly, the New South Wales Legislative Council and aldermen- 
It may be. I am relying on my memory. 
He will work it out for me. It is a very large number. The honourable member has the membership of the New South Wales Parliament, both in the Lower House and the Upper House, which impinges 
Do not forget the Upper House. Its members cover the whole of New South Wales. 
Sixty? 
Well, this is typical of you; yet, you oppose our proposal all the time. This measure surely has justice on its side. It has equity on its side. It has fairness on its side. Yet you people come along and oppose it again. All I can suggest is that either you do not believe that you can win the additional seats - and I do not think that that matters in the Northern Territory because I would think that the Country Party has a greater chance of winning the additional seat there than the Labor Party has- 
Of course. Look at the figures. This will test your honesty. The last election for the House of Representatives for the electorate of the Northern Territory returned Country Party support, not Labor Party support. The Country Party does not want to increase that support. It opposes such a step. We have no chance, or little chance or less chance than the Country Party has of winning that seat. Yet we try to do the right thing by the people of he Northern Territory. We have tried and we will continue to try. But the hypocrisy and the double standards of the Country Party should be exposed. 
People argue that the Senate is the States House. What nonsense. Senators vote either as individuals or on Party lines. The Senate has never been the States House. I repeat that fact: The Senate has never been the States House. It was conceived as the States House by the people who worked on the Constitution in 1890. They thought that it might represent the interests of the States. But the members of the Senate have never voted on State lines, and honourable members know it. Never ever has the Senate done that - and honourable members know it. There are independents there who vote as independents because of particular political ideologies and the points of view that they have. Otherwise, members of the Senate vote on Party lines. Members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party vote as a party, whether they come from Tasmania or Queensland; they are Australians. 
It is dishonest - and rank dishonesty - to start talking about this nonsense of the States' rights and of the Senate being the States House. Even if that claim were correct, is that any excuse to exclude representatives of these Territories from the House where very basic decisions are made that affect the Territories? Are honourable members opposite going to continue to exclude representatives of the 200,000 people living in Canberra at this time - that is half the population of Tasmania and the population here is growing rapidly - from their rightful place in the Senate? Are honourable members opposite to continue to exclude representatives of the Northern Territory from the Senate? 
Every time that I make an ordinance or my Government introduces an ordinance that relates to the Australian Capital Territory, the attempt to disallow it comes from the Senate. Honourable members opposite do not waste their time here seeking to disallow such ordinances because they know that they are in the minority here at the moment. This is the same double standard as the honourable member for the Northern Territory demonstrates. He mouths platitudes here. But the attempt to disallow and to defeat this progressive legislation and these reforms is made in the Senate where honourable members opposite have the numbers. Yet they refuse to support legislation to give representation to the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory in the 
Senate where it matters. The Opposition Parties say: 'Keep them out. We will decide what is best for them'. I quoted the example in regard to the 32 square miles of land, which was something that the honourable member for Gwydir approved of last year. The Government of the day did not get around to following that through for one reason or another. I will not go into that, but the honourable member approved of it when he was a Minister. It was in the Senate that the Opposition rejected it. .Yet that is the very place in which honourable members opposite refused to let people from the Northern Territory have representation in order to express themselves. The same applies in regard to the Australian Capital Territory. If an attack is made on an ordinance or it is disallowed the attack or disallowance occurs in the Senate, the one place where honourable members opposite say: 'We will not let the Canberra people be heard.' That is the one place in which they say: 'We will not let the Canberra people have their vote.' One could say that it is cowardice. One could say that it is the action of people who place political expediency above political principles. I think that has to be said. 
I support the remarks of the Leader of the House on this question. I think it is a long overdue reform. I only hope that the people in the Senate do the right thing this time. There is no reason to suppose that they will - because of the reasons I have suggested. I do suggest that it is conspiracy, and that word is not too strong. It is nothing less than an agreement that goes against the public interest or has an illegal overtone. I suggest that it is a conspiracy within the Country Party to come into this place- 
I am not quite wrong. 
I am quite right. In the circumstances I have mentioned it is a conspiracy for the honourable member for the Northern Territory to come into this place and say whatever he likes because he thinks he is talking to his constituents. He can say: T did the right thing. Do not blame me'. But in the Northern Territory where he has the numbers, where he has the support and where his Party has- 
He does not have to dictate to them. 
Has he ever talked to- you about it? 
Which way do you vote? Why do you not talk to your colleagues in the Senate? 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Twelve hour shifts were necessary for some members for a short period but normal eight hour shifts are now being worked. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Commissioner of Police has approached the Joint House Department seeking the provision of adequate shelter and heating facilities for members of the Force patrolling Parliament House. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The necessary information is being sought from the Departments responsible. When this is received I will make it available to the honourable member. 
Heads of Mission at Overseas  Posts:  Official Cars  (Question No. 927) 
I would like to say a few words in this debate. I have some regret about speaking before the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  I was hoping that I would be able to follow him in the debate in order to have the benefit of his comments. I say that not in any hostile way. Firstly, I wish to take up some of the remarks of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who spoke about the subject of Aboriginal affairs in general and about how in many areas and in many ways one would hope - this is as I understood him - that Aboriginal welfare, Aboriginal advancement and Aboriginal affairs will be treated as non-party issues. I share that view. 
Social conscience is not a monopoly of any political party. In the Liberal Party of Australia there are people who have it and there are others who do not. The same goes for the Australian Country Party and the Australian Labor Party. Racism is a nasty, dirty word. Racism is to be found in all political parties. People who are racists often are not aware that they are and in some cases stoutly deny that they are. Fortunately, there are some people who give serious thought to the solution of the problem. I think the short address of the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  was extremely impressive in this regard. He obviously has given a lot of thought to the subject. He is not a political ally of mine. He belongs to one of the Opposition parties - the Liberal Party. Obviously, he has thought in great depth about this problem. I am not saying that I agree with everything he says. 
By contrast let me single out - I know that it will be put against me that I do - the comments of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  There was nothing constructive in his remarks. Everything he said added up to saying that nothing should be done about the Aborigines, that they should be left as they are, that they have been happy in the past and we should let the old way continue, that we should not think about giving them cattle stations to run, that we should not think of spending money on them and that we should treat them as simple, innocent people who occasionally get drunk. That is a patronising attitude which harks back to the past; a past which produced the terrible system which we have inherited and which was so strongly described - in extreme language, it is true, but proper language - by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  I do not think it does very much good to describe the features of the system. We all know them. 
Much of the talk so far has been devoted to the more remote parts of Australia such as northern Australia and the Northern Territory where large concentrations of Aboriginal people live. There are people living on the outskirts of Alice Springs, Darwin and Katherine and at Gove, Yirrkala, south of Mount Isa, Boulia, Dajarra and places such as that, who are experiencing not only malnutrition but also poverty and a lack of all the things that we take for granted. They also would like to take those things for granted; let there be no mistake about that. They are not happy about having to live in the conditions in which they live. It is a wicked, nasty lie to suggest that they are. The principal thing they lack in most of the areas I have described is dignity. They are conscious and aware of that. One has only to see them in parts of the Northern Territory to know that they do not enjoy the sense of dignity that we regard as a basic right of human beings. They do not walk tall, as we would like to think all human beings should be able to walk. 
I think it is a tribute to the Labor Government that at least it has recognised the magnitude of the problem. The amount set aside in the Budget for expenditure on tackling the problem is well over double the amount ever spent before. Throwing in the expenditure on education and health, in addition to the amounts that were being disbursed by my good friend the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  when he was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the expenditure provided for in this Budget will be well over double whatever was spent before. The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, with his very deepfelt sense of what is right and what is wrong in this world and with his deepfelt sense of the injustice that these people are suffering, was bringing to that job a zeal and energy that was a shining example to all of us. 
I want to single out just one aspect of this deep problem that came to my notice - in a particular form, anyway - not too long ago, when I first became Minister for the Northern Territory. I was aware of the bad conditions at the Fannie Bay gaol in Darwin and the gaol in Alice Springs, although I was not as familiar with the conditions at the gaol in Alice Springs as I was with the conditions of the one at Fannie Bay. I arranged for Professor Gordon Hawkins to go and inspect the conditions. He took with him an American expert,  Dr Misner.  Professor Hawkins is a well known authority on criminology.  His  description of the criminal justice system of the Northern Territory should be made widely known. I quote from the opening paragraph of his report, which was in these terms: 
In the entire criminal justice system in the Northern Territory the Aboriginal has only one role- he is the prisoner. He is not the judge. He is not the policeman. He is not the lawyer. He is not the gaoler. He is not the warder. But he is the prisoner. 
That is how society - our society in his land - confronts him. He is picked up in the street by the police because he is obviously drunk. He drinks to try to drown his loss of dignity, and so makes the situation worse. If I lived under the conditions under which he lives, I would drink too. He is branded by our society as a prisoner. Something like 75 per cent of all the prisoners in Northern Territory gaols are in prison for public drunkenness. That is an incredible situation. Most of them are Aborigines. Last year when I was a member of the Opposition I put questions on the notice paper in an attempt to obtain some comparison of the crime rates in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The Australian Capital Territory has approximately double the population of the Northern Territory. One would think therefore that the Australian Capital Territory would have double the number of criminals because crime is only a feature of society. But that is not the case. With half the population of the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory has IS times the number of people in gaol for what are called crimes. But the crimes are drunkenness and vagrancy - vagrancy being not having any money; in other words, being an Aboriginal. Those figures and facts speak for themselves. 
The honourable member for Herbert, in his thoughtful contribution to this debate, said that sometimes he has misgivings and he does not quite understand which way the present Government's policy is going. Let me suggest that at least it has a policy and a determination to do something about a situation that Australians cannot tolerate or put up with any longer. The previous Government - at least those members of it who had a conscience, such as the honourable member for Mackellar - was at least beginning to move in the last months or perhaps years of its term of office, but it did very little. The present Government, on coming to office, recognised the urgency of the situation and more than doubled the amount of expenditure in this field. It, of course, recognises that one cannot solve everything by money but it recognises also that one cannot solve this problem without money because it goes much too deep. At least the present Government has made a start. Those are the contributions I would like to make to the debate. I will listen with interest to the remarks of the honourable member for Gwydir. 
 The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  seems as much concerned with why the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  uses the telephone and how much he pays his private secretary as he is with why Australian Capital Territory policemen are resigning or being recruited in great numbers. He then swings over to express some concern about the well known  report  which he mentioned. In saying all these things he seems to be under the delusion that I am not the Minister for the Northern Territory; I am. 
 Yes, I am. The honourable member should keep up to date with the things that are happening. 
I never  lost  it. Next time the honourable member should read the newspapers correctly or listen closely to the Prime Minister. I listened with great interest to the remarks made by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke).  I must admit that I regret that answers have not been given to the questions he mentioned. I shall certainly take up the matter with the Attorney-General and see what can be done. He mentioned  Mr Milte's  name. I will leave my comments about that until the end of my remarks. 
The only other criticisms that I have heard were offered by the honourable member for the Northern Territory and I have just dealt with them. In the short time that this Government has been in power it has a very proud record in matters of law reform which normally come within the province of the Attorney-General. That is against the backdrop of the fact that the Australian Government is not primarily responsible for making laws to the same extent as State governments make laws in this country. That is an essential feature of our Federal system. We have the residuary powers. These things are basically known. The Federal Government can make laws only on those subjects which are given to it by our Constitution. That has to be borne in mind when one looks at the legislative record of this Government in the short time that it has been in office. I refer to the number of Bills that have been introduced in previous years. Last year I think about 130 Bills were introduced. So far this year - and the year is far from finished  -  187 Bills have been introduced. Instructions have already been received for approximately 70 further Bills. I appreciate all the Bills will not be passed because of the well known difficulties the Government has in the Senate. That is a magnificent achievement and I think credit for it can be laid at the door of the AttorneyGeneral and his Department and in particular the Parliamentary Counsel,  Mr Charles  Comans, his associates and colleagues. They have done a magnificent job in putting forward this record legislative effort. It is also a tribute to my colleague, the Leader of the House and Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I ask the House to reflect on the number of Acts passed in 1972; it was 139. There have been 187 Bills introduced to date this year and there are another 70 Bills still to be introduced. Of course that is against the backdrop of our constitutional situation. This Parliament does not have as much opportunity to make laws on things which I personally believe it should be allowed to make laws on as do the State parliaments. 
I will give some examples of what has happened. Reference has already been made to some of the matters. We have taken very energetic measures in extending the system of legal aid. No laws are any good at all to the community unless people are able to make use of them and go into court. Traditionally, under our system, the low income earner cannot make use of the laws. If he loses a case he is mulcted in costs. In some cases a person can depend on a speculative benefit extended to him by the legal profession but that has its disadvantage. We have extended very much the system of legal aid and it is operated by the States. A recent example of this is the grant of $2m to the States to operate their legal aid systems and to allow people to exercise their legal rights whether those rights come from this Parliament or the State Parliament. The creation of the Legal Aid Office which will depend upon the services of salaried legal officers will also allow people to take full advantage of their legal rights. I refer also to the fiat that was given to enable citizens of Canberra to use legal rights that they might not otherwise have been able to use in the legal challenge in the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory concerning the tower on Black Mountain. This case is another typical example of the attitude of the Government to the people being given legal rights and being allowed to exercise them. 
Before the Senate now is the new Restrictive Trade Practices Bill. When passed into law, it will become one of the most momentous pieces of legislation that this country has ever seen. The original trade practices proposal was initiated many years ago by  Sir Garfield 
Barwick. The legislation was stymied, frustrated, amended, chopped around, deferred, put away under the carpet, hidden. All manner of things happened to it. But now, at long last, that measure in more modern effective form has come forward. Married to it and associated with it will be more effective and stringent provisions giving protection to consumers in Australia, the like of which has never been seen to come from this Parliament before. 
Proposals exist for the appointment of an ombudsman who will take care of the needs of the citizens of Australia who are or feel that they are aggrieved by administrative decisions by a public servant. Although the proposal is not in its final form, I understand that there will be deputy ombudsmen in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. In that sense, the situation will be 3-tiered. Pursuant to our policies for open government and to open up the processes of government so that citizens may know what is going on and criticise the actions of government - it is not always easy and pleasant to be criticised; we all know that - there is a proposal for a freedom of information Bill which, I understand, the Attorney-General hopes to introduce in the course of this session. That legislation will make readily available to our citizens information, whether it is to be found in reports or in documents, of a governmental nature. 
An overall review is to take place of administrative decisions procedures. This flows from the report of the Bland Committee. The establishment of a superior court is proposed. This court will take the strain off the High Court so that it can be left to its proper function of being essentially a court of appeal for Australian law and not be burdened with so many cases of first instance. A proper superior court will be set up. Already approval has been given for the creation of the office of a second residential judge in the Northern Territory. A senior magistrate in the Northern Territory will be appointed also. 
In the field of human rights, or civil liberties if honourable members wish to call it that, the International Labour Organisation conventions on human rights, race and discrimination have been ratified. Legislation to give effect to those conventions is being implemented or is to be implemented. This will be a most significant step forward in the area of civil liberties in this country. 
It is well known that the Attorney-General achieved legal history when he went to The Hague and appeared as the principal advocate before the International Court of Justice seeking, and obtaining, an interim injunction against France in respect of the nuclear tests that were then being conducted in the Pacific. Legislation relating to the protection of aircraft has been passed. The death penalty has been abolished in all Australian Territories. Bills relating to extradition have been introduced into the Parliament. One could go on to detail other legislative action. But I do not want to take up the time of the Committee because certainly no criticism of any substance has been made of the proposals contained or effected in the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. The legislative program of this Government to date is one of which it can be justly proud. 
I am reminded that I have not dealt with the matter of  Mr Milte.  Misunderstanding exists with respect to  Mr Milte.  The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  seemed to suggest that  Mr Milte  was being foisted on the Northern Territory.  His  name was one of a panel of names put up to the Administrator's Council of the Northern Territory from which a selection could be made. For political reasons, about which the honourable member for the Northern Territory knows better than I and for which we all can be witness when he speaks, the honourable member for the Northern Territory was associated with a move to discredit  Mr Milte  because  Mr Milte  was at one time associated in doing work for the Attorney-General's Department on a proper fee basis such as all member of the Bar receive.  Mr Milte  was discredited. But his name was one only of a panel of names put up for consideration. That is the long and the short of the matter. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department  of  the Capital Territory 
Proposed expenditure, $22,880,000. 
Department of the Northern Territory 
Proposed expenditure, 525,734,000. 
Mir BURY (Wentworth) (5.0)- I regret that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  although he is only new to the portfolio, is not in the Committee for the consideration of these estimates.  His  predecessor, the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  who handled this portfolio until yesterday is present. Had the Minister for the Capital Territory been present I would have joined in paying tribute to his performance as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
May I interrupt to say that he is coming. 
I was hoping to follow the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  because he touched on something which concerns me intimately as the outgoing Minister for the Capital Territory. I thank him for the element and note of responsibility in his speech. Unfortunately, it is not often that we hear that sort of approach in this Parliament. I thank him particularly for his admission - I do not seek to use it in any critical sense - that it was a situation we inherited from his administration. Some facts perhaps bear repeating. I took out the figures a little while ago. In about 1969 the average price of a block of land in Canberra was about $2,500. Using the system we inherited from the previous Government, that same average block was fetching more than $10,000 this year and the average price was going up all the time. 
The honourable member for Gwydir says that this was because of the shortage of supply, and indeed he is correct. But that is only part of the answer, in my view, because unfortunately we live in an inflationary time. Once people become aware of inflation they also become aware of a hedge against it. One of the hedges against inflation is land. 
So they buy land. I had the unfortunate experience, when opening clubs, of young girls coming up to me - I do not exaggerate - and being critical of me because I instituted a system of rent control. They had just bought their third house. They were paying off one after another from the rents. I just reduced the rents by a small amount and they were unhappy about it. It was a sort of land fever that had caught on here. The auction system was producing it. Every month people would see the headlines again: 'Land Prices Escalating in the Australian Capital Territory'. In my view that had to be stopped. 
I do not say that the new system is a permanent solution. I do not believe in permanent solutions. But I strongly hold the opinion that the new system is far more rational than the auction system - given this inflationary period in which we are living - and is one on which we can build. I also accept what the honourable member for Gwydir said, namely, that there are areas in it which will have to be relaxed. He mentioned one area - the so-called second home buyer. The provisions of this new system as they relate to the second home buyer will have to be relaxed, but they were made in their present form because of the situation in which we found ourselves. 
The principal features of the new system are not really the ones that the honourable member for Gwydir described - the paper work and the lack of freedom of choice. They were features of the old system, too. There was little choice for a young couple who wanted to buy a block of land who had $4,000 to draw on and who then found that the block was sold for $10,000. Under this new system people have a freedom of choice and they recognise it. The newspapers reported the people who queued up on the opening day as having said: "This is too good to miss'. Nobody likes queues, least of all me; but they queued up because the new system was too good to miss, because there is freedom of choice in it. 
What is more important is that the land is now being put out at a reasonable price, not at the figure that was being produced by the auction system as it was when I suspended it and going higher all the time. The average was $10,000 when I suspended the auction system and was going up month by month. There was no reason to suppose that it would stop, given the demand inflated by the state of mind I have described. The average now is a little more than $5,000. We are putting land out at about half the price. Under the new system we have put a price on it in much the same way as one puts a price on a book or a motor car. It is 30 per cent less than the unimproved capital value at the end of January 1973  -  an arbitrary figure, but one designed to take into account the inflated values as they were then and as they subsequently became, and one designed as a compromise between what the unimproved capital value was then and what the cost is. At the moment blocks of land sell for between $2,500 and $10,000 for the better class ones. At least we are putting the leases of the land out at prices that people can afford to pay. 
But one of the great problems in devising a new system is this: What do we as a responsible Government do if people who have the money are prepared to pay much more for the land, either for speculative reasons or as a hedge against inflation, for their twelfth house? I know one solicitor in town who had 12 houses for that very reason. He sold them shortly after I introduced the rent control, and they became available to people who otherwise could not obtain them. If we make land available at prices lower than people with money are prepared to pay for it we will be giving everyone a bonanza, both the rich and the poor, particularly the rich - not that I have anything against the rich. On the figures I have quoted, we will be giving them a gift of about $5,000 on each block of land, because as soon as they sell a block again or are allowed to sell it again they have an added $5,000 as an unearned increment. It is a gift. No responsible government can do that either. That is why we have to extend the system that the honourable member for Gwydir used and which we have kept - a restriction on resale within 5 years. As soon as the restriction is removed everyone knows that there is then an asset that is worth a lot more than it was when he got it in the beginning. That is just a feature of the system. I do not know what can be done about it. 
There is not much time for me to speak but I just want to make a few comments about some of the things that happened during the short time I was Minister for the Capital Territory because I think they make up a list of things of which no one need be ashamed. We significantly reduced lawyers' conveyancing fees in the national capital. The lawyers did it voluntarily. There was no need for price control. We have taken a first step and committed ourselves to a form of territorial government for the Australian Capital Territory. This is something that has been talked about in this ctiy for 20 or 30 years. We have firmly committed ourselves to it and we are well on the way to it with the reference to the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. We have a system of consumer protection in operation now that the Australian Capital Territory never had before. We are committed to establishing a Belconnen shopping mall so that the third major shopping mall in this city will not fall into the hands of the one big developer, Lend Lease, as the other two have, so that we have a degree of monopoly that is unhealthy. We will have a public trust operating the third major shopping mall here. The rent control I have described. There are proposals for a government lottery that are well under way. We have nearly doubled the expenditure on public transport. Ninety-nine new buses are to be bought this year. Perhaps I am saying this now so that my good friend and colleague, the Minister for the Capital Territory, can hear it as he takes over. Firm commitments have been made for free school bus services as from 1974 for all children who live more than a mile from a school, and that stipulation will be progressively eased. In a small way, although in a symbolic way, I must admit, one of our first moves was to make use of the facilities of the family planning people. As a government measure, a proud government measure, we advertised and advertised regularly, twice a week, in Canberra a contraceptive advisory service for all, married and unmarried. It is unique in this city that it should be so. 
 It might do that. We have taken major steps forward in child care because I think Canberra has more working mothers and more people with 2 jobs and 3 jobs than has any other city in the country. We have a neighbourhood shopping centre system now working. One of my last acts, perhaps almost on my last day, was to set aside 5 houses for child care centres in Canberra, and I hope the Minister will leave them that way. We even bought a merry-go-round for the people of Canberra. 
I do not want to take up too much time, but the honourable member for Gwydir put his finger on one important aspect - the shortage of supply of houses. I do not want to embarrass him or the previous Government of which he was a member, but we know that in 1957 the government of the day was then building 70 per cent of all houses in Canberra. It is true that it was a smaller city of only 70,000 people then, but that was the proportion of the expenditure that the LiberalCountry Party government of the day devoted to public housing. As late as 1957 70 per cent of all houses built here were built by the Government. By the time that the LiberalCountry Party Government had fallen from power that percentage had fallen to 30 per cent. That was the crisis. When the former Government turned off the fountain in Lake Burley Griffin in an attempt to save money back whenever it was- I think in 1970 - it stopped giving money to the National Capital Development Commission to service land. We inherited that situation, as the honourable member has been good enough to admit. No land was coming out of the pipeline when we took over. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has something like a 50 per cent increase in funds this year for the NCDC, and $93m is to go to the Commission - a very significant increase - to make up for what the previous Government did or did not do during all its years in power. These increased funds will increase significantly the supply of serviced land that basically we need. 
 That is right. The main thing is that we are winning. As that happened, my colleague the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  set up his interim schools commission, and the long awaited and long delayed independent education authority for the Australian Capital Territory is now virtually with us. 

 Mr 5??;-'- -Yes, that is right. The fire brigade in the Australian Capital Territory is now independent of New South Wales. All this has been achieved in 7 or 8 months. We have 2, almost 3, community health centres. The one at Melba is using salaried doctors and is a magnificent success. I recommend anyone to go and see it. It is absolutely magnificent. The one at Scullin is using doctors on a fee for service basis and the new one in Civic uses doctors on a salary. All this has been achieved in 7 months. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am regularly in touch with students of the Australian National University who are members of my constituency. 
The A.C'.T. Advisory Council is currently considering a suggestion that Reid House should be used as emergency accommodation for families in distressed circumstances. The future of the building is therefore still under consideration. 
The development of specific accommodation for students is a matter for educational institutions in liaison with the Australian Commission on Advanced Education and the Australian Universities Commission. The Department of the Capital Territory has no funds or authority for construction. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The terms of rural leases were negotiated with the legal representative of the A.CT. Rural Lessees Association prior to the grant of current leases. The leases do not provide for interest to be paid on amounts payable to lessees following withdrawal of land from lease. In these circumstances the leases provide for payment of the value at the date of withdrawal of the lessee-owned fixtures, erections and improvements, such value to be ascertained by agreement or in default of agreement by arbitration. Where land is withdrawn, the lesseee usually retains the use of the land for a period, very often until after settlement is made. He pays no rent or other charges for the use of the land until after settlement is effected and then only on an agistment basis. 
Compensation monies are promptly paid after agreement is reached and if there is any long delay  in reaching agreement, the lessees are always able to go to arbitration, a course which has only been adopted on rare occasions. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the Commonwealth Police Act 1957-1966 I present the annual report of the Commissioner for Police on the operations of the Commonwealth Police Force and a summary of its activities for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
A short time ago it was unfortunate that following an outburst by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  he was suspended from the House. The incident that led to his being suspended involved his incorporating a table in Hansard. The honourable member had consulted me on the document and as a matter of courtesy we gave him leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. The interpretation he chose to place on the document was that some statements which the Prime Minister made yesterday are not true. I ask for leave - I understand it is to be granted - to have incorporated in Hansard another set of figures in my possession together with some notes which accompany that set of figures which put a completely different picture on the figures given by the honourable member for Mackellar. The 2 sets of figures may be studied side by side and people can then make their own decision as to which are the correct figures. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Bruny)Order! Is leave granted? 
Two minutes. 
No. 
Be fair. 

<graphic href="086131197310115_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

I am indebted to my friend. 
I take a point of order. I sought leave to table those figures. I understood that leave was given for that purpose. 
I am in continuation. I wish to continue my remarks. 
 We have heard the usual excellent performance by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  - an excellent performance which really boils down to typical Country Party hypocrisy and humbug. Wherever one finds defenders of privilege and defenders of profiteering one finds in the forefront representatives of the Country Party. Let me give one example of these little men they seek to defend. I quote from the evidence given to the part-heard Commission of Inquiry into Land Tenure's being conducted by  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell who is  Chairman,  Professor R. L. Matthews of the Australian National University and  Mr G.  J. Dusseldorp, who is fairly well known as a developer. A gentleman named  Mr McNamee  was asked some questions, because he was one of these little men. Professor Matthews asked him: 'What did you pay for your land?' The witness replied: 'That is no consequence.' He did not want to answer the question. He was asked by another man assisting the Commission,  Mr Willcox:  'Would you oblige Professor Matthews please?' McNamee answered: 'About $32 an acre.'  Mr Willcox  then said: 'And you want to sell at $5,000 an acre'. That was the asking price. There is the little man. He pays $32 an acre for it and demands as the price of it being put to good use - a price that the community and the taxpayers of Australia must pay  -  $5,000 an acre. If that is multiplied by 4,800 acres one gets an astronomical figure. 
Order! The honourable member for the Northern Territory has been continually interjecting. 
The humbug of the Country Party members - these defenders of privilege and of profiteering - can be seen in a better light when one hears their talk about inflation. The Government moves to stop the spiralling escalation of land prices in this way - the best and only way - and what do those members do? They spring to the defence of the people who want $5,000 an acre for land that cost them $32 an acre. I can tell a story that occurred with respect to land in the Australian Capital Territory. In the Australian Capital Territory 9,000 square miles of land was acquired in 1909 under the Seat of Government Adminnstration Act at 1908 values. It was acquired at about $2 an acre. I am talking of the land on which Canberra stands. 
The land on which this building in which we are meeting stands was acquired for about $2 an acre in 1909 at 1908 values. This was done because of the foresight of those politicians - statesmanlike politicians and not Country Party members like those we have listened to tonight. That magnificent success which was able to be achieved in Canberra is a tribute not to a Labor government or a non-Labor government but to the foresight of those people long ago. Canberra has become the most beautiful and planned city in Australia. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  referred to the squalor that exists in Darwin. He referred to the lack of planning, the lack of facilities, of sewerage, of kerbing and guttering, of parks, gardens, trees and all those features that go to make the good life. Such squalor does not exist in Canberra because of foresight. Honourable members opposite would not want such conditions in Canberra. But in the forefront, in the vanguard of the opposition to these improvements being effected in Darwin, is the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  He is the one man who does not want to have it happen in Darwin. He defends most vigorously these people who want to convert $32 an acre into $5,000 an acre. 
The honourable member knows that in the area under consideration there is no kerbing and guttering, no parks and gardens and no schools. 
I have referred to the hypocrisy and humbug of Country Party speakers and I want to say again what I have said before about them. They engage in conspiracies against the public interest. They assist, aid and abet conspiracies against the public interest. They have referred to a petition. Let me read out a statutory declaration that refers to the petition that has been mentioned - the so-called petition against acquisition. This statutory declaration is by a  Mr Edgar  who solemnly and sincerely declares that: 
About 6 weeks ago a  'Mr A.  Albany approached me to sign a petition against the acquisition of land. 

 Mr Albany is one of the biggest landowners in the area. The declaration continues: 
He told me if 1 signed and the move was successful 
That is the move to disallow the acquisition -  and I aligned myself with him I  would  stand to gain $40,000 for my land. 
He is a little man - an honest man. His declaration continues: 
I considered this ' an inducement to my signing, to gain cash. I refused. 
So much for the petition. This is a statutory declaration to that effect. Again we have a Country Party spokesman in the forefront - in the vanguard. All the time wherever there is someone seeking to get something for nothing - the cost will be passed on to the consumer, to the citizen, to the ratepayer - one will find Country Party members in the forefront with flags held high for privilege and vested interests. Let me give another example. It is well known thai because of the failure of the previous Government to complete the acquisition of all land in the Australian Capital Territory years ago so that it could be properly developed for houses to be built on it for families and people who wanted to live the good life, some pockets of land remained. That land could have been acquired by the taxpayers at $2 an acre. The previous Government eventually was forced into moving to do something because of the growing scandal of rising land prices in about 1971. Instead of having to pay about $200,000 for 9,000 acres - and again the benefit of that would have been passed on to the people who will live in Tuggeranong - what was the asking price? lt was S35m. lt was the previous Government's malicious neglect that produced that asking price of $35m. If that price is upheld it will have to be passed on to every poor family which goes to live in Tuggeranong, the new satellite city being built to the south of Canberra. Let no one be under any misapprehension. The guilty men are the members of the Country Party. It is only because of the weakness of their Liberal Party colleagues that they are allowed to sit in this House and push the Liberal Party into these situations. If the right thing had been done years ago that scandal would not have occurred. The fact that only one pocket of land was involved, and not many, probably can be attributed to the fact that the Country Party has never had much influence in the Australian Capital Territory. That can be put down to the good political sense of the people of Canberra. In the one part of Australia where the Country Party has had influence - the Northern Territory - this scandal of the 32 square miles upholds. It is only in the Northern Territory where there is influence from people such as  Mr Geoff  Letts, the Country Party member for Victoria River, that wc have a situation where a man can buy land at $32 an acre and then demand that the taxpayers of Australia pay him $5,000 an acre before he will let people build houses on it. 
Was there a plan for Canberra when it was acquired in 1909? Think your position out, man. The things which I have just said have been said by others. I should like to quote a proposition by that very great Englishman,  Sir Winston  Churchill, on this very subject. It bears being heard over and over again. 
Well, the honourable member is going to hear it again because it is worthwhile hearing.  Sir Winston  Churchill said: 
Unearned increments in land value are not the only form of undeserved profit but they are the, principal form and they are derived from processes which are positively detrimental to the general public. 
Those remarks should be reflected upon. In this case land has been bought for $32 an acre and it has been sought to be converted into $5,000 an acre in a short period of time.  Sir Winston  went on: 
Land, which is a necessity of human existence, which is strictly limited in extent and which is fixed in geographical position, differs from all other forms of property. 
A landowner who happens to own a plot of land on the outskirts of a great city- 
This is what we are talking about, the outskirts of Darwin -  watches the busy population around him making the city larger and more famous every day and, all the while, he sits still and does nothing. 
This is particularly so in the case of the speculator.  Sir Winston  continued: 
Roads are made, services are improved, and water is brought from reservoirs a hundred miles away. 
All this is done with the taxpayers' money. The quotation continues: 
And all the while the landowner sits still- 
This like this little gentleman who paid $32 an acre and now wants $5,000 an acre. He did nothing for that land to improve its value.  Sir Winston  continued. 
Everyone of these improvements is effected by the labour and the cost of other people. 
To not one of these improvements does the landowner, as a landowner, contribute and yet every one of them enhances the values of his land. 
He renders no service to the community, he contributes nothing to the general welfare, he contributes nothing to the process from which his own enrichment is derived. 
The population of the city grows and keeps growing. 
This is like Darwin where the population is growing at the rate of 12 per cent per annum. He continued: 
And, at last the land becomes ripe for sale, and that means the price becomes too tempting to be resisted any longer. 
And then, and not until then, is it sold by the inch or by the yard, at 10 to SO times its true value. This evil process strikes at every form of activity. 
The more a municipality has improved the area- 
He is referring to the taxpayers, the citizens - the more it will have to pay for any land now required for future improvements. 
And, not matter where you look or what examples you select, you will see that every form of enterprise, every step in material progress, is only undertaken after the landowner has skimmed the cream off for himself. 
And everywhere today the man or the public body who wishes to put land to its highest use is forced to pay a preliminary fine to the man who is putting it to an inferior use and, in some cases, to no use at all. 
This is similar to the man in the Northern Territory who bought land for $32 an acre and wishes to sell it for $5,000 an acre. Nothing has been done to the land; not even cattle have been run on it.  Sir Winston  continued: 
And its owner is able to levy toll upon all other forms of wealth and any other form of industry. 
The good senators who considered this matter last week realised the strength of the acquisition, as indeed the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who now sits opposite realised last year the strength, merit and purpose of the acquisition. He did not acquire the land. I do not wish to go into why he did not do so. But he recognised the merit and the strength of the acquisition. Circumstances overtook him. I think we should all understand this because, after all, it was 1972. But the honourable member for Gwydir recognised the merit of the acquisition, and 1 say that to his credit. He is perhaps the only member of the Country Party, that I except from what I have said. This acquisition will allow the Government properly to plan the development of Darwin and properly to provide facilities such as schools, houses, land, parks and gardens, kerbing and guttering and all the amenities of the good life which the people of Darwin have been denied for so long. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
The developments at Island Lagoon are probably well known and have been referred to in the newspaper article mentioned by the honourable gentleman. The decision about the use of the facility flows from the decision of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, our American friends, to close down the Island Lagoon facility, or at least no longer to finance it, because of the decision it has taken to consolidate its enterprises in other parts of the world and Australia as part of a general economy drive, I understand. That leaves the facility in the situation now where it does not serve the purposes for which it was set up. A study has been undertaken and is continuing. The Americans have taken away most of the electronic equipment which they were entitled to do pursuant to the agreement. The fixtures, the big disc and that sort of thing, have been left there. The problem now is to find an alternative and proper use to which they can be put. 
There has been consultation between the various Defence departments, the Department of Supply, the Postmaster-General's Department, the Department of Science and the Department of Minerals and Energy, and some of the universities also have been consulted. Interest is being expressed in the facility and the possible uses to which it can be put. One of the difficulties, of course, is that is located in a very remote part of Australia, 14 miles south of the Woomera township. The universities have expressed interest, but the amount of work that they can offer the facility is of necessity rather limited. However, the studies and inquiries are proceeding. I should tell the honourable member and the House that it is not thought that the lack of development at the moment will have any significant effect on the township of Woomera. Some 60 or 70 families were thought to be involved but the township of Woomera has other functions and it has been designed specifically for fluctuations of this sort. 
The proposals that go to the establishment of an Australian law enforcement agency do involve the Australian Capital Territory Police, the Northern Territory Police and various other law enforcement agencies throughout Australia. As I understand the proposals there should be no dislocation such as has been touched on in the honourable member's question. One of the great advantages of the proposed system will be an increase in mobility by way of advancement and promotion in the new system that will come into being. The honourable member who asked the question and other honourable members will be aware that one of the disadvantages of a small police force - in saying that, I am not decrying the Australian Capital Police because it is small - is lack of promotion. It is well known that the A.C.T. Police has an extremely high morale, a lot of elan and professionalism that is the envy of many other police forces in the country; it is to be commended. However, with the rapid promotions that have taken place in the A.C.T. Police in recent years because of its small size, yet rapidly growing numbers, there is a danger that a lid will be placed at the top levels which will stop other young men coming up. The proposed system should overcome that problem. 
As a rider to the answer I add that a very good and desirable feature that we hope to incorporate into the new system will be an independent tribunal set up outside of the law enforcement agency to investigate complaints against policemen. It has often been thought by citizens who feel aggrieved by allegations, false or otherwise, or by alleged intimidation and sometimes corruption by policemen, that as the resulting investigation takes place within the force itself the appearance of justice does not emerge. This is not good. It is proposed to have an independent tribunal outside the law enforcement agency to investigate complaints of that sort. Separate divisions within the law enforcement agency would exist for the Australian Capital Territory Police and the Northern Territory Police. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I rise to support these 2 
Bills because I believe, and 1 put it to the House, that they are 2 of the most important pieces of legislation yet to be presented by this Government to the House. When anything imaginative, anything that will serve the interests of all Australians, is put forward by this Government, one can predictably expect that opposition - irrational, abusive opposition - will come from the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party. A good example of this can be seen in what has hapapened in the last 10 minutes. In the last 10 minutes we have seen the one and only wish of members of the Opposition being fulfilled, namely, an intention to delay, an intention to frustrate, an intention to block. Yesterday speakers from the Liberal Party and the Country Party waffled all over the place taking up time. Indeed the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  was as much a culprit in this regard as was anyone. He spoke about a groundnut scheme and told legal stories. He is a good friend of mine, but he contributed nothing to the debate. All he did was block and frustrate. Not a single constructive thought came through from the Opposition. Not even a thought,, constructive or otherwise, came through. All we got from the Opposition was a manifest intention that these measures -which are designed to overcome an ever increasing social mischief in the country are to be blocked at 'all times. They are to be delayed here and then the Opposition will use whatever influence or power it has in the Senate perhaps to emasculate the Bills or do something else because members of the Opposition are the defenders of privilege, the defenders of wealth and the enemies of the average Australian who wants to share in progress and the ever increasing amount of wealth that is being produced in this country. 
This Government believes in enterprise. It believes in private enterprise and in public enterprise. The hypocrisy comes from the Liberal and Country Parties when their members use such expressions, such euphemisms as 'private enterprise'. They do not believe in any such thing at all, because they know -that pure competition in this sense no longer exists in this country because of the neglect on their part during a period of 23 years. A concentration of economic power has taken place in this country. Sometimes it is in this country but all too often it is given into the hands of overseas owners of wealth. We all know this, and indeed it was to the credit of  Sir John  McEwen when he was in this Parliament that he recognised what was happening. Back in 1970 he was able to establish the Australian Industry Development Corporation - a beginning on which this Government is now building - so that all Australians can share in Australia's wealth. A lot of nonsense has been talked during the course of the speeches so Par - it can hardly be called a debate in view of what has been coming from the other side - to the effect that this legislation will bring about nationalisation by stealth and will result in a takeover bid on behalf of some giant colossus, some giant public corporation. The AIDC, as everyone who reads the Bill knows, will only be as good as the people of Australia make it, because it will raise money and compete in the market to marshal funds to buy back Australia, the Australia that in large measure was sold by people in the Liberal Party and people in the Country Party to overseas interests.  Sir John  McEwen recognised this when he established the AIDC back in 1970. 
Misrepresentation has also occurred in the reference by the Opposition from time to time that in some way - I recall the honourable member for Moreton saying it - the Minister who would be responsible for the AIDC would have a great discretion. He has a discretion but it is a very limited discretion, and I invite honourable members to reflect on it, because it is contained in the Bill. It is to be found at the bottom of page 4. It is only if, after having received a report in pursuance of the Bill in relation to any enterprise or project, the Minister is of the opinion that it is in the national interest that the Australian Government should facilitate the provision of finance by the Corporation in relation to an enterprise or project or assist the Corporation to engage or participate in the enterprise or project, that he may, with the concurrence of the Treasurer, give such guarantee as will enable the Corporation to provide finance or to do what it wants to do, or out of the moneys appropriated by the Parliament for the purpose he may make payments to the Corporation. 
It has been said wrongly and mischievously - wickedly perhaps - that this will not involve the Parliament. What nonsense. Of course it will involve the Parliament. Every time such a proposition is considered it will presumably and properly be the subject of debate in this place. If it were not clear from the existing Bill - and I suggest that it is - the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has indicated already to make it even clearer - clear enough even for members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party to understand - that amendments will be moved to put the position beyond doubt so that every time a proposition of this sort is contemplated it will be brought into this Parliament so that it can be debated and made the subject of examination. Is that not what this legislation is all about? We arc seeking to legislate against the concentration of economic power that has taken place in the country, power that is not accountable to the public at the present stage. There is no degree of Australian participation in it because the concentration is taking place all the time. As that great American publicist and politician of some years ago, Estes Kefauver, once said, the wealth and the power are these days in too few hands. This legislation seeks to make accountability through this Parliament so that if a decision is to be made, if money is to be appropriated, if a guarantee is to be given, the matter will be presented to this Parliament, where it can be debated. That surely puts the whole issue beyond doubt. In the short time that we have left- 
That is right. Who wasted the time yesterday with all that nonsense? This measure will go into the great list of Labor Party achievements. It will join the Commonwealth Bank; it will join the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority; it will join TransAustralia Airlines - all the great examples of public enterprise, every one of them opposed at one time or another by the Liberal Party and the Country Party. Members of those parties have never supported anything of substance in this Parliament. They have always opposed such measures in the interests of the people who basically support them. It is easy to sec why they should do so. It is because, as has been so often said in this Parliament in recent days, they have been receiving funds from those interests. The parties now in Opposition dismantled the Commonwealth Oil Refinery. We created the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Commonwealth Bank, back in the old days. We hope to set up the Australian Industries Commission. This measure will go down in the list of great achievements of the Whitlam Labor Government. That is why honourable members opposite are opposed to it. That is why they are shouting. They have no argument. They simply say: 'Stop them. Frustrate the Government. Delay it as long as possible while we marshal our funds from the people who are buying out this country - the multi-national foreign dominated corporations.' 
When the legislation was introduced in 1970 to set up the Australian Industry Development Corporation  Sir John  McEwen said: 'It will give us an opportunity to buy back the farm'. He used a highly emotive expression that has since been criticised but he went on to say that the performance of the previous Government was not good enough in letting the economy progressively run down, making ends meet by allowing a little bit of the farm to be sold off every week or every month. The cry was: 'Sell off the farm'. This measure was designed to allow Australians to contribute to funds to marshal the capital and wealth - to buy Australia back. Predictably, as sure as day follows night the people who are now in Opposition opposed it. It threatened what they stand for. They have nothing to offer. They opposed the measure in their Party rooms back in 1970. One honourable member opposite said yesterday that considerable misgivings were entertained even then. That was because they did not want the farm bought back for the benefit of Australians. They had misgivings that Australians should own their own country, but the majority in the present Opposition parties outvoted the opponents of the measure because they saw that a storm was rapidly approaching. This Government is now taking the logical and natural steps to put it right. 
In the short time left to me I want to quote some remarks on this subject by  Sir Alan  Westerman - one of Australia's current crop of great Australians. He is not a politician. He was appointed by the previous Government. In a speech to the Victorian section of the Australian Institute of Management  Sir Alan  Westerman said that the Australian Industry Development Corporation - as it is, unreformed and unchanged - was currently operating under restrictions which, while valid when the Corporation was established, had become nonsense. It is to cure that situation that the Government has introduced this Bill.  Sir Alan  went on: 
You could say that I understand the reasons for the proposed changes, relating as they do to the practical day to day business of the Corporation. They are changes which indicate a close understanding of the experiences of AIDC since it was established. Also, the Government has not come out with anything which is not right in our ball park. 

 Sir Alan stated that he did not believe that the changes altered the basic philosophy of AIDC, except for the provision which would require it to support in the national interest certain projects which it felt could not be undertaken on commercial grounds. That situation is to be changed by the amending legislation.  Sir Alan  Westerman made certain points in his address. He said, for example, that the original restriction which required AIDC to borrow principally from overseas was first put in because of the scarcity of funds in Australia b.:t it had tended to become nonsense now that we are embarrassed by the amount of funds already here. But those funds are not being put to the uses that the Australian people require. In the same speech  Sir Alan  went on to say in replying- to questions - and this sums up the whole position - that the Government's policies were in effect increasing the horsepower of AIDC and adding to its fuel tank. It is an emotive description that we might not accept ourselves but it is the view of one of the current great Australians who is familiar with the problem. He was associated with AIDC from its beginning and recognises the merit of the current proposals being put before this Parliament for implementation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The time allotted for the second reading debate has expired. 
Question put - 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is envisaged that all prosecution work in the Australian Capital Territory will be carried out by legal officers of the Deputy Crown Solicitor's office, Attorney-General's Department. As an interim step, police prosecutors have been physically located in the Deputy Crown Solicitor's office and are performing their prosecution duties under the direction of the Deputy Crown Solicitor. 
As the change to legal officer prosecutors will be gradual, probably over a period of several years, it is not possible to answer this question. 
The simple answer to the honourable member's question is that I know of no such representation and I do not believe that there has been any such representation. I should go on to say that questions involving the Australian federal system - this Parliament here and the States - always bring into play what this Government or the Ministers who constitute it should do in regard to something that is happening in the States. Almost invariably and consistently members of the Liberal and Country Parties, who sit on the Opposition side, say that nothing or little should be done, because of the strict dichotomy or division between the States and the Federal Parliament. The simple answer is that I know of no such representation. 
The Government is hoping to put forward certain proposals concerning the needs of small businesses in Australia. My predecessor had occasion to make certain statements on this subject in this House some months ago. The Government takes the view that small business is a particularly important  aspect of the business community in Australia and adds up to a very substantial proportion of all business activities. When one bears in mind the ever increasing tendency for business to become concentrated into fewer and fewer hands, with all the consequential problems of economic power, one realises the importance of giving assistance to small businesses. I am hoping that a Cabinet submission will be considered soon. Indeed, I take this opportunity, with the Prime Minister sitting alongside me, to express the hope that in the next week or so the matter will be listed at the top of the agenda for the next meeting of Cabinet so that it can be considered. 
We are doing extremely well, but there are so many aspects coming forward on the Cabinet agendas that one has to push one's claim all the time. I put that point of view forward at this time. 
That is right. 
No, thank you. We are also hoping to organise a national small business seminar to be held in Canberra on 22 and 23 November. Invitations have already been sent out to representatives of small business throughout Australia. There has been a very enthusiastic response to it. The meeting will be in the nature of a symposium. We feel that a great deal of benefit will come from it which will lead to the creation soon of a small business administration. 
All I can say is that on a literal reading of the sub-clause I am forced to agree that the sug- gestion put forward by the honourable member seems to be right. May I suggest this: These expressions come to us, as of course honourable members would know, from learned Parliamentary Counsel. They are taken from other statutes and other legislation. The courts give them a definite meaning and once the meanings are declared to expressions such as this - I am not committing myself to this particular one in that way - they have definite meanings. The uncertainty creeps in when one tries to change them. I think it might suffice if I say to the honourable member that the Government will have the matter looked into. It may well be something on which we can take action in another place. 
Clauses-agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
The Governor-General shall appoint a person who is, or is to be, a Commissioner to be the  Chairman  of the Commission. 
A power of the  Chairman  under paragraph (2) (a) or (b) shall be exercised, as far as practicable, only after consultation with the Commissioners. 
The Government cannot accept this amendment. I suggest with great respect to the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards),  because we are, as he knows, accepting many of his propositions in the Committee stage of the debate on this Bill, that on reflection he will come to the view that the words as far as practicable' are reasonable. After all, these Commissioners could be in any part of the country. The powers of the  Chairman  in this sense are only to convene meetings of the Commission and to determine the form of the records. That is the limitation. There might well be many occasions when, because one Commissioner is in Melbourne and another in some other part of Australia, it would be not practicable to make it a mandatory requirement that every one of them be consulted when the question concerned relates only to the matter of calling a meeting together or determining certain records of previous meetings. The Government is very anxious and determined to ensure that the Commission is a body which will give proper assistance and expertise to Australian industry, as its name suggests, and therefore it has to be a practical working body. If those words are deleted there would be a slight risk, although perhaps not a real one, that it might not be so practical. Of course, one appreciates that in normal activities the  Chairman  will consult with his colleagues. We know that and we expect it. To write in that he must do these things might well make the whole thing unworkable. 
The Government is happy to accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards).  In our view the matter was sufficiently clear from the language used in the Bill but it is also our view that this amendment puts the matter beyond doubt and therefore we are happy to accept it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The Government cannot accept this amendment, and again I would suggest to the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  that there are good reasons for not accepting it. I am reminded of a very basic piece of advice that was given to me years ago when I was a very young barrister practising in Sydney. I was given the job of drawing up the constitution for a certain voluntary organisation. With excess zeal I began to write in provisions for every possible contingency to which I could put my imagination. Of course, the advice I received was: 'Do not waste your time. You are just making things impossible for the club to work'. It was a club with which I was involved. It seems to me that when people try to write into the constitution of an organisation that it shall always conduct itself in this way or that way, that it shall always meet at least once a week or not more than once a month, they buy into trouble. This is the thinking of the Government in relation to this proposition. 
The honourable member for Berowra is proposing that meetings shall be held at least once a month and that they can be called in this way or that way. We suggest that therein lies legalism of a sort which is not productive. Given the quality of the men, and possibly the women, who will serve on this Commission, one can surely leave it to their judgment and their discretion as to how often they will have to meet to consider the work that obviously they will have to do. We know that this Commission will be very busy. The extent of the assistance which may be involved was revealed by the Coombs task force report. There can be little doubt, without risk, that the Commission will not meet often enough. 
The Government has no objection to this amendment. It is arguable whether the number should be two or three. However, as I say, we have no objection to the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 19 agreed to. 
Clause 20. 
A Commissioner shall not exercise any power conferred upon him by this Act in any matter in which he has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest. 
The Government is happy to accept the amendment which seems to be completely consistent with what it hopes to achieve with this legislation which seeks to set up the Industries Assistance Commission. As we all know, the ideal behind the establishment of the Commission is for there to be as many public inquiries as possible on matters of vital concern to the Australian public - and to remove from the public administration of government and politics the suggestion that has all too often been present that there are lurks and perks and all sorts of underhand secret dealings and disguised forms of subsidy which were referred to in the Coombs task force report. We want to get rid of these sorts of things. One has to recognise that there will be people who will sit on the Commission who may well have a direct or an indirect pecuniary interest in something to which they are required to direct their attention. The question of a conflict of interest is one that all too often plagues modern societies. The clause, if left in its existing form - direct or indirect - might well disqualify a lot of very capable people from being able to sit on the Commission and contribute to its work with their expertise and experience. It seems to us that the amendment is an advantage. It will draw attention to the fact that a particular Commissioner might have a pecuniary interest because he will be required to declare it. If that is revealed and made public it will then be a matter for the Commission to attach whatever weight it wishes to it. It might be something that it would discount; it might be something to which it would attach weight. Of course, it might well be something that in consequential public debate could be relevant either in this House, in the Senate or in some other place because the Government as we have made it clear, is not obliged to accept advice that is given to it by the Commission. As we have said often the Government could look for other advice. It might well receive advice that it has doubts about. We are happy to accept the amendment because we think that on balance it strengthens the purpose that we are trying to achieve. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 21 (Functions of Commission.) 
As I have said several times already, the Government sees this measure as being of great importance to industry and to Australia as a whole by bringing out into the light those decisions which so greatly affect Australians - decisions involving the expenditure of the taxpayers' money - so that they can assess whether the money is being spent in the right way. I think that the Government is as aware as the Opposition and anyone else of the dangers of a large bureaucracy. This is one of the features of modern living. The Government is concerned about it. There is no suggestion in the legislation of anything of that nature emerging. Indeed, this Commission is, in many ways, only an improved form of the Tariff Board. At this stage anyway one has to rely on the quality of the men who comprise it. Naturally, it is the Government's intention that the departments would offer as much informaion as possible in their areas of expertise, in the way in which the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  described it. That would be only natural and proper. The Government certainly hopes that that would be so. The Government is quite confident that it would be so. It seems to me that there is nothing calling for an amendment at this stage. In legislation like this, one has to watch to see how it is working. Such legislation may be improved as time goes by. I remind honourable members that clause 21 provides that inquiries will be held in accordance with the Act. That expression is repeated on 2 occasions. The Act is pretty specific and pretty particular. 
The Government cannot accept this amendment. Far be it for me to be abrasive in this debate, because we have welcomed many of the amendments put forward by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards),  but one could say - and one cannot say it too often - that the attitude of the Country Party is predictable and well known. During the debate on the second reading of this Bill it opposed the whole concept of it. It sees this legislation extending into its domain the general principles which apply to the rest of Australia and which have applied to the rest of Australia for many years. It sees the principles which we would lay down and which have been laid down for secondary industry being applied to rural industry and it seeks to throw a cloak over its activities as they have been carried on by the Country Party in many previous years. 
That cloak was torn away by the Coombs Task Force report. The disguise was ripped away from its face when the Coombs Task Force report disclosed to the world how many hidden subsidies and how many disguised bounties had been amassed to themselves by the members of the Country Party over many years, forcing, pushing, blackmailing perhaps, the Liberal Party into a situation where if it was to retain power it had to do what the Country Party demanded to be done in the interests of the Country Party. It is that which cannot be said too often in this House and be heard by the people of Australia. 
It is correct. You will be judged by your actions. You oppose the Bill. 
You oppose everything the Bill stands for. 
I am familiar with the newspaper reports that relate to the annual report of the New South Wales Consumer Affairs Council and Consumer Affairs Bureau. It is true that that annual report states what the honourable member has said. The Commission came out strongly against and criticised the activities of certain finance companies in the area of extending finance of a consumer kind. I think the most depressing thing about the whole situation of reform of the consumer credit position as it exists throughout Australia is that it has to be left to the various States. This is something for regret because one has only to reflect on the fact that there is one common form of consumer credit available throughout Australia - we are one nation in that regard - yet we have the situation where each of the States individually and separately has to look at the problem and find its own solution. We have the bizarre, odd and crazy consequence where there are 6 different solutions to one problem. If one adds to it the role of the Australian Government where it affects the Territories one could conceivably get 7 or 8 different solutions because the Northern Territory goes its way and the Australian Capital Territory its way. One gets a most unworkable situation. This has been the subject of study in recent years. The Molomby report has directed strong attention to the need for a single common form of chattel security. But the trouble is that the States are unlikely to reach agreement on it. As the Attorney-General said the other day in the Senate, the workings of the various Attorneys-General of the States and Commonwealth can achieve only so much. When one reflects that chattel securities can take the form of hire purchase agreements, which are different in all States and Territories, post-dated cheques, bills of sale, mortgages, forms of guarantee, forms of indemnity, leasing agreements and various types of liens, one appreciates that there is a situation in which credit security, which is so important in Australia as a whole and which is in great need of ' reform, cannot be reformed by the one Parliament that can do it in a proper way, and that is this Parliament. I know the Attorney-General is working on it and doing his best but it is a matter for regret and, I think, depressing that we in Australia are at present in this unfortunate situation in which there can be 8 different lawmaking authorities producing this almost unworkable situation. 
 It seems to me that in all of the words that are being used and in all of the speeches that are being made we are in grave danger of losing sight of the 2 propositions that we are called upon to consider and to vote on. The motion moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has 3 parts in its first clause. He has moved: 
That this House is of the opinion that- 
And this is the first part of the first clause: 
the site for the new and permanent parliament house should be determined forthwith; 
To that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has moved an amendment, the first clause of which contains 4 parts. The first part of the first clause in the amendment is, for practical purposes, identical with the first part of the first clause of the motion moved by the honourable member for Corio. The amendment moved by the Minister reads in its first clause: 
action should be taken forthwith to initiate the planning and design of the new and permanent parliament house; 
In other words, let us get cracking. Let us start doing something. Let us stop talking. I have been a member in this House for only a little over 3 years. The subject of the new and permanent parliament house comes up all the time and we are no nearer now to resolving the differences than when I first entered this Parliament. 
The second feature that the motion moved by the honourable member for Corio has in common with the amendment moved by the Minister is that there be a joint meeting of the House of Representatives and the Senate ultimately to resolve the matter. So, both propositions have those 2 fundamental proposals in common. What are we arguing about other than an expression of opinion on site - Camp Hill or Capital Hill. Let us not lose sight of the common features that both propositions have. Let us get started and let us have a joint meeting of the House of Representatives and the Senate. I think that I must agree with what the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr 
Hamer) said. It is at the joint sitting that the decision on the site will be made. Presumably, irrespective of what this House decides today, members of this Parliament will have a free vote at the joint sitting. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has admitted that he has changed his mind once already on this subject. That is to his credit. He might well change his mind again when the joint meeting is held. But let us not waste time by arguing forever the matters which are in difference. There is so much in common in those 2 propositions. 
The amendment moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development goes on to express a preference for the Camp Hill site because of its obvious advantages. I support him in that regard, but I do not want it to be thought of as a red herring. It is distracting us from what we have in common. Irrespective of which proposition is carried, we hope that a joint sitting of both Houses will be held, that at that sitting the matter will be resolved, and that we will stop talking and do something. Let me put forward, but not as a red herring, the arguments why I believe Camp Hill should be the site ultimately selected. These are the arguments that I would put forward at the joint sitting. 
It is estimated that if the Capital Hill site is selected the expenditure on the parliamentary building at the present day value of the Australian dollar would be $80m. I do not really think that any government - a Labor government or a non-Labor government - would be able to find that sort of money in the near future. So, we are faced with the practical proposition that if the Capital Hill site is selected at the joint sitting - I am not referring to what happens here today because I do not think what is decided here today matters - we are saying, in effect, now new parliament house shall be constructed. If a decision is taken - as both propositions agree - that the site should be determined forthwith, and Capital Hill is selected it would mean that no new parliament house would be built because no one could afford to do that with the greater and more important jobs which must be done by a government of any political persuasion. 
If a decision for the Capital Hill site is reached, we must bear in mind one factor which the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  ignored, that is, the deplorable conditions under which this place operates at the moment. I am a Minister. I have 2 portfolios. I am Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply. Formerly, I was Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory. I have a total staff of 9 people. We occupy or are forced to work in about 400 square feet of office space. When I was a barrister, I had 400 square feet to myself. Now I share 400 square feet with 9 other people. I do not have a room to myself. My Press secretary and one of my advisers share a room that would not be the size of a lavatory in the average suburban home. It is about 5 feet by 6 feet. My private secretary works in a little room 6 feet by 4 feet. I have 3 steno-secretaries sitting alongside each other, and they work under those conditions from half-past eight in the morning until midnight on days when Parliament sits. They have to work in a room that would not be more than 12 feet by 8 feet, with their typewriters, filing cabinets and all the other necessary things. These conditions are just deplorable. 
The building that we occupy looks pleasant from the outside. People come to this city of Canberra, in their millions, to admire their national Parliament. Nearly 2 million tourists a year come here. They go through King's Hall and say: 'How nice'. They sit in the galleries and look down and see us doing What ever they think we are doing. But they do not see the conditions under which the 1,200-odd people who work in this building work. The Parliamentary Library research people go up to and down from the mezzanine-type platforms almost by rope ladders. Members of the public should be taken in there to see the conditions under which they work. No business or group of professional people such as dentists, doctors, lawyers and accountants - no one anywhere - would work under the conditions under which these 1,200-odd people work in this place. Yet we hear people saying: 'That does not matter. Let us carry on with it'. It does affect the quality of the decisions that come out of this place, and something must be done to put it right. 
If honourable members press for the Capital Hill site at the joint sitting - it does not matter here now - it seems to me that, given the practicalities of it, there will not be a new parliament house. No matter how often honourable members say 'We need one', we will not get one because it will always be too hard and something else will always be more important. Political parties must take care of what the public demands they take care of. I refer to the needs of such things as education, housing, the cities that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development fights so hard to improve, law reform, combatting inflation and foreign affairs where this Government's interests are affected overseas. These things have to be taken care of first. The whole experience of this place since 1927 surely has proved over and over again that, no matter how deplorable the conditions here are, we will put up with them because there are no votes in it - if that is the cynical view honourable members take - and we will do the things for which people outside will applaud us or the things that need to be done. 
Let me stress again the advantages of moving to Camp Hill. Everyone agrees that both sites are good. Capital Hill is a good site. Of course it is a good site. So is Camp Hill. Burley Griffin, the original architect and designer of Canberra, opted for Camp Hill. I am not saying that we are tied to what a dead man - a great architect but now a dead man - once said should be done. We can change that decision. But it is some evidence that Camp Hill was deemed suitable at the time - and it is suitable. If honourable members look behind this place they will see that very pleasant hill - Camp Hill - and they will see the vista which is presented across to the War Memorial. Surely, as a -practical proposition, taking into account all the difficulties, no one will ever appropriate $80m or $10Om for a parliament house on Capital Hill. No one will ever build a parliament house which will involve an Opera House type expenditure and will take 5, 10, 15 or 20 years to build. It will just be put in the 'too hard' basket all the time. 
Since 1927 and since the Minister came to the Parliament, no one has done it. And so the arguments go on. The proposition put forward by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is imaginative and practical. It allows us to continue working here while we build another complex around us and up on the originally conceived Camp Hill site. 
Yes. It is a magnificent site. The people who naturally indulge in hyperbole or exaggeration say in support of their proposition that this place will be razed to the ground and the memories of Curtin, (Evatt, 
Fadden, Ward, Calwell, Barwick, McMahon, Gorton, Whitlam, Bruce, Page and so on will be lost. I say that that will not happen. This place can be maintained. It can serve all sorts of other useful purposes. Indeed, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has virtually given an assurance to that effect. We could turn Kings Hall into a great place for naturalisation ceremonies and all manner of public gatherings. This chamber could be a central gathering place for groups that come from all round Australia, whether they be national groups, employers' groups, industrial groups, trade union groups, professional groups or what-have-you. We could make this place into a piece of living history such as those the Minister for Labour described when he called on examples from overseas. He said that when overseas countries preserved their national memorials and national monuments they did not make them dead places. They did not leave them empty. They put them to good use so that the people of the country could go and use them. This place can be maintained, but it has surely outlived its use as a parliament house. 
When I came into this place I shared a room with 2 other members. Three of us were in a room 15 feet by 8 feet. It was Jim Fraser's old room. Three members of Parliament sat there. The telephones rang continuously. The proceedings in this chamber, which we know are relayed into our rooms, were broadcast on 3 different systems in that room. What chance was there to do any work? I repeat that the level, the standard of decision making in this place will decline, will be lowered and will fall away while we continue to put up with the conditions that exist here. 
If we decide to have a new parliament house - and we are all agreed on that - let us press for a proposition that is realisable, that is practicable and that we can move toward. I have said all those things not as a red herring, although it seems to me that some honourable members who have spoken, perhaps not intending to do so, have introduced a red herring. The real expression of opinion on whether the site should be Capital Hill or Camp Hill does not matter in this place today. I personally believe that Camp Hill is the right site. But it does not matter because both the original proposition and the amendment call for an immediate start and they call for a joint sitting of both Houses. It seems to me that we should stop talking and get on with the business. 
 I should like to intervene briefly in this debate on the estimates for the Department of Secondary Industry to make a few points. I will not take up very much of the time of the House. The matter which I wish to raise was brought to my attention by an honourable member who approached me after question time and told me that he had been trying to ask a question of me dealing with one aspect of the Department of Secondary Industry. It is relevant in the debate on these estimates that that question and the answer I would have given be put before the House at this stage. The honourable member's concern was for the lack of consultation that he felt had previously existed between the Australian Government and secondary industry and in particular the leaders of secondary industry. As I understand it he would have asked me a question with regard to the intentions of the Government in establishing better consultation than our predecessors had between the Government at this level and the leaders of secondary industry. 
It is a very serious problem. We have in Australia, as we all know, a Federal system. As honourable members would know I am no great admirer of it in its strict, present form. I have been heard to criticise it often because of the difficulties it places in the way of giving assistance to secondary industry and. other industries by governments, whether State governments or the Australian Government. In the last few days I have had the opportunity of having discussions with many leaders of secondary industry and they have repeated this same complaint. They have told me that the lack of consultation goes right back many years into the days of the previous Government. The policies of the present Government include a determination to establish very close consultation with the leaders of secondary industry. Given the difficulties which exist and which arise from the existing division of functions between the States and the Australian Government, it seems to me that there is considerable merit to be obtained from regular meetings that might take place between State Ministers who have responsibilities in the area of secondary industry and Ministers of the Australian Government who also have responsibilities in the area of secondary industry. 
I have already had discussions with my ministerial colleagues, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on this point. They have given their enthusiastic support for the proposition. I hope to put the proposition to some of the State Ministers. I have reason to believe that some State Ministers who have been approached already are warm to the idea of perhaps bringing into being something that could be called an Australian industries council. It could be a model of and perhaps taken beyond the level of the Australian Agricultural Council. It would consist of 6 State Premiers and, shall be say, three principal Ministers of the Australian Government who have direct responsibility in secondary industry. I refer to the Treasurer, the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Minister for Secondary Industry, and perhaps the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  Meetings could be held regularly so that the problems that face the country could be thrashed out and better understood and the problems which have produced ad hocery in the past could be more particularly overcome. It might make it easier for us to develop what I would call long range indicative planning for Australia as a whole. 
I should also like to indicate to the House that it seems to me that there would be great advantage in such a council, if it could be brought into being having not only Ministers from the States who have direct responsibility for secondary industry and those Ministers from the Australian Government who work in the same area but also having a certain number - say 6 - of the leaders of industry representative of Australian-wide industry as a whole. Of course that makes one think of leaders of the trade union movement and perhaps they should play a role in it as well. It is a matter for consultation. I should say that I have already spoken to departmental people on the matter and was pleased to learn that they had taken some initiative some time ago but it had led to nothing then. They will be exploring and making a detailed study of the whole problem. We know that can happen under the system which we have inherited from the previous Government. There are occasions when the States are played off against each other, sometimes by overseas investors. We know that sometimes States operate unilaterally on schemes of national significance, sometimes to the non-advantage of the national interest. We know that there can be fragmentation of industry between States which inhibits the development of large scale industry, competitive by international standards. 
All in all it seems obvious that there is great scope for complementary action between the States and the Australian Government. It could be called, as it has been called by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on other occasions, a new form of co-operative federalism. The other principal disadvantage of the existing system is that all too often Australian Government involvement in manufacturing tends to be reactive to a particular situation as it has emerged and not been known about sufficiently in advance because of this lack of consultative machinery that has not been in existence and which we have missed in the past. There is a difficulty in identifying priorities. There is a difficulty in obtaining responses from States which request help on particular projects. Those are the matters I wish to bring to the attention of the House in debating the estimates for the Department of Secondary Industry. I would have done so this morning if the honourable member had had the call at question time. 
Progress reported. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to control restrictive trade practices and monopolisation and to proprotect consumers from unfair commercial practices. The Bill will replace the existing Restrictive Trade Practices Act, which has proved to be one of the most ineffectual pieces of legislation ever passed by this Parliament. The Bill will also provide on a national basis long overdue protection for consumers against a wide range of unfair practices. 
The Bill is similar to another Bill that the Government introduced into the on 27 September. Debate on that Bill has been deferred by the Senate until next year. The Government has made it clear that such a delay in the passage of legislation of this importance is quite unacceptable. The Bill deals with matters of pressing importance and has particular relevance to the problem of inflation. The present Bill is introduced into this House so as to afford it an opportunity to consider and express its views on the important provisions of the Bill. 
Restrictive trade practices have long been rife in Australia. Most of them are undesirable and have served the interests of the parties engaged in them, irrespective of whether those interests coincide with the interests of Australians generally. These practices cause prices to be maintained at artificially high levels. They enable particular enterprises or groups of enterprises to attain positions of economic dominance which are then susceptible to abuse; they interfere with the interplay of competitive forces which are the foundation of any market economy; they allow discriminatory action against small businesses, exploitation of consumers and feather bedding of industries. In consumer transactions unfair practices are widespread. The existing law is still largely founded on the principle known as caveat emptor - meaning let the buyer beware. Thatprinciple was far more appropriate for transactions conducted in village markets than for modern consumer-oriented transactions of today. It has ceased to be appropriate as a general rule. Now the marketing of goods and services is conducted on an organised basis and by trained business executives. The untrained consumer is often no match for the businessman who attempts to persuade the consumer to buy goods or services on terms and conditions suitable only to the vendor. The consumer needs protection by the law and this Bill will provide such protection. 
The Bill is especially important because of its relevance to inflation. The purpose of many restrictive practices is to maintain prices at levels higher than would otherwise prevail. This contributes to the inflationary trend. It also reduces the likelihood that the benefits of the Government's recent tariff cut will be passed on to the public. Increased competition from imports will be of little benefit if not accompanied by increased domestic competition. Consumer protection also assists in the fight against inflation. It is the consumer who has to bear the burden of higher prices and of unfair methods of dealing. 
The Bill gives effect to a recommendation by the Council of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in December 1971 concerning action against inflation in the field of competition policy. The recommendation urged member governments of OECD, as part of the action to be taken by them against inflation, to adopt stronger measures to control restrictive trade practices and to protect consumers. The Government has a firm electoral commitment to introduce effective legislation in the areas of restrictive trade practices and consumer protection. This implements the promises made by the Government at the last general election. The Government believes that the Bill introduced into this Parliament should, as far as possible, indicate what forms of conduct are to be prohibited. We believe that the existing restrictive trade practices legislation is unsatisfactory in this regard. 
Under that legislation prohibition of a practice or agreement comes not from the law itself but from a restraining order made by the Trade Practices Tribunal. These proceedings can be instituted only by the Commissioner of Trade Practices where, in his opinion, the institution of such proceedings is desirable. To this there is a real exception in the case of resale price maintenance and apparent exceptions in the cases of collusive tendering and collusive bidding. 
In our view, except for resale price maintenance, the existing Restrictive Trade Practices Act unfairly places the burden on persons whose responsibility it is to administer the law, not to make it. I do not overlook the need for some flexibility in legislation of this kind. Some agreements and practices are not objectionable. The law should provide for such agreements or practices to be treated after appropriate consideration by the administering authorities as exceptions to the general rule. This is the approach taken in the Bill. A related consideration is that a law is bound to be ineffective if it commits to the administering authorities more work than they could hope to perform. The unsatisfactory operation of the existing Act is made clear in the recently tabled sixth annual report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices. This report states that on 30 June this year there were no fewer than 12,360 operative agreements entered in the register maintained by the Commissioner. This was only 193 fewer agreements than the corresponding number on 30 June last year. The Commissioner and his staff have done their best to deal with a vast number of agreements and practices in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Act. But it is clear from the report that the rate of progress they have 'been able to achieve is extremely inadequate if effective control of restrictive agreements and practices is to be attained within a reasonable period. 
The progress being made under the existing Act is such that it would be many years before the legislation had any significant impact on the economy. This would be unsatisfactory if inflation was not a pressing problem. Such a slow rate of progress is plainly intolerable. Another important principle is that a breach of such legislation should give those who are affected by the breach the right to bring private enforcement proceedings. Under the existing Act one who is adversely affected by a practice or agreement has no right to take the first necessary step of instituting proceedings in the Trade Practices Tribunal. Under that Act the institution of such proceedings is the exclusive prerogative of the Commissioner of Trade Practices. If the Commissioner takes no action the person adversely affected by the practice or agreement has no alternative course of action. It is clear that the effectiveness of legislation with respect to trade practices will depend upon the existence of a strong administrative agency. This Bill recognises the need for such an agency. The agency will be called the Trade Practices Commission and will consist of a Chairman, a Deputy Chairman and such other members as are appointed by the Governor-General. 
The Trade Practices Commission will replace the Commissioner of Trade Practices. It will have a wide range of responsibilities covering not only enforcement, but the granting of authorisations for conduct otherwise prohibited, the granting of clearances where there is uncertainty as to the application of particular provisions and inquiring, at the instance of the Attorney-General, into the need for further legislation with respect to practices that appear to be operating unfairly against the interests of consumers. The Commission's functions with respect to consumer protection will complement those of the Consumer Standards Commission which the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  is establishing. The Bill provides for mandatory consumer standards where desirable. The method will be to prescribe the standard by regulation. Any such regulation will be made under the legislation now proposed although decisions to prescribe standards will be taken in close consultation with the Minister for Science. Some of the functions of the Trade Practices Commission will involve the making of administrative determinations of a quasijudicial character similar in a number of respects to the determinations at present made by the Trade Practices Tribunal. The Bill provides for the Tribunal to be retained as a body of review. It will have power to review determinations of the Commission upon the application of an interested party. 
I refer now to some features of the drafting of the Bill. Legislation of this kind is concerned with economic considerations. There is a limit to the extent to which such considerations can be treated in legislation as legal concepts capable of being expressed with absolute precision. Such an approach leads to provisions which are complex in the extreme and give rise to more problems than they remove. The present Bill recognises the futility of such drafting. Many matters have, of course, had to be stated in detail. But other provisions, particularly those describing the prohibited restrictive trade practices, have been drafted along general lines using, wherever possible, well understood expressions. I am confident that this will be more satisfactory. The courts will be afforded an opportunity to apply the law in a realistic manner in the exercises of their traditional judicial role. 
The constitutional power of the Australian Parliament to enact legislation such as that contained in the Bill was clarified by the very important decision of the High Court in what is known as the concrete pipes case. For present purposes that case established that restrictive trade practices and monopolisation legislation contained in the Australian Industries Preservation Act could validly derive support from the corporations power in the Constitution. It also established that legal problems can arise when provisions that depend on that power are drafted so as to be inextricably mixed in their operation with provisions that depend on other powers. The Bill takes acount of these considerations. Most of the provisions are drafted so as to apply only when a corporation is involved. But these provisions are given by clause 5 a separate operation in reliance upon other powers. In the result, provisions which appear to be restricted to situations involving a corporation, will have an extended operation involving interstate trade or commerce, the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory or dealings with the Australian Government, any of its authorities or instrumentalities, or the use of postal, telegraphic or telephone services or a radio or television broadcast. 
The present Act places much emphasis on secrecy. Everything on the register of trade agreements is subject to secrecy requirements, as are the functions of the Commissioner and his staff until, in relation to a particular agreement or practice, he institutes proceedings in the Tribunal. Such secrecy is undesirable and goes beyond what is reasonably necessary for the protection of confidential information and can be against the public interest. The Bill confines secrecy to confidential information. However, the secrecy which has applied to the register is not to be removed. I should add that under the Bill the existing registration requirements are not to be continued. The importance of the register will become progressively less and less. The existing overseas cargo shipping provisions have been included in the Bill in their present form. This should not be taken as an indication that the Government is satisfied with the provisions. They will be the subject of a later review which will take into account, amongst other things, international negotiations. This will be done by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  who has the ministerial responsibility in this area. 
My last preliminary comment is that the Government has received some suggestions that the Bill should contain a provision to ensure that, in appropriate cases, legal aid be available to persons involved in proceedings under the legislation, whether in a court, the Trade Practices Tribunal or the Trade Practices Commission. Such a provision would plainly have much to commend it. The matter is under consideration and we expect to introduce an appropriate provision by way of amendment when the Bill is being considered in Committee. 
I appreciate the honourable member's interest in the need for a healthy and prosperous Australian shipbuilding industry. The interdepartmental committee to which he refers was set up following a joint announcement made, I think, in about March of this year by the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Overseas Trade. The committee has been doing its work and, I understand, has now completed its report. The report has not yet been considered in any detail; but it just happens that tonight I shall be having certain discussions with senior departmental officers on the subject, and I hope that in the not too distant future an announcement will be made on it. 
As to the first part of the honourable member's question about the remarks of the honourable and learned judge who was previously the honourable member for Parramatta and Minister for Foreign Affairs in this House, I did see the newspaper report where he is reported to have said that certain members of the present Government, as I think he put it, favoured nationalisation of the legal profession. All I say in reply to that is that I know of no such members. I think it is a pity that leaders of the judiciary come down from the bench occasionally and make statements like this which are essentially political because they invite political answers to the statements which they make. Not to answer the statement means running away from the suggestions contained in it. I do not know precisely what  Mr Justice  Bowen had in mind but if it were the proposals of the Government to supplement some of its legal aid proposals by creating legal offices where salaried lawyers might be employed in certain selected areas of the capital cities of Australia, that is certainly not nationalisation. My understanding of the word 'nationalisation' is that it is a government owned and controlled industry or activity. No one would suggest that the legal profession should ever fall into that category. 
The learned judge was correct when he said that the independence of the legal profession is a great safeguard of the liberties of the people. I think it was Erskine who first said that when the independence of the Bar was gone the liberties of Englishmen would be imperilled. If it is suggested that a Government which is spending more on legal aid than ever before, and which is beginning to set up community legal aid offices which might employ lawyers who choose to be employed on a salary basis, is seeking to do that I certainly reject the suggestion. This Government is trying to use the law in a liberalising and freedom-producing way in all sorts of areas. I can give only a few examples here now. There are the proposals of the AttorneyGeneral, which were described in the Press recently, to introduce a human rights type Bill which would guarantee or state the fundamental importance of human rights as they have been declared in the United Nations. We will make major breakthroughs in that area in Australia when that legislation comes into effect. 
The Government is providing money to finance legal aid so that the ordinary citizens can gain access to the courts through the normal independent legal profession and so assert and protect their rights. This is unique and without precedent in this country and it is only a Labor Government which would have done it. There are also proposals for administrative law reform under which citizens who are aggrieved by administrative decisions can, by having access to legal aid and salaried legal services, assert and protect their rights. These are all major achievements of this Labor Government. Those are the principal remarks which I would make in reply to the question. 
I rise only to answer some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen). 
I will be very brief. I just want to make this simple point: The Government has introduced this legislation 'because it believes that it is extremely important. I invite honourable members to reflect on what has happened all day. During the second reading debate members of the Government Party and members of the Opposition parties contributed to the debate. Let me state what the Opposition people said, notwithstanding that this legislation which concerns restrictive trade practices was introduced into the Senate in September. Most of the Opposition contributors to the debate were people who are experienced in the subject of restrictive trade practices - in particular, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  The Leader of the Opposition said in effect: 'We do not really know enough about this legislation. You have not given us time to think about it. We want more time'. I will address no remarks on the credibility of Opposition speakers generally in this regard, but that was the gist of what the Leader of the Opposition said - 'We need more time'. He said little else. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  made the same point. 
I take your point,  Mr Chairman.  But the question of time is involved in making these points. Honourable members opposite said: 'We want more time'. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  said: 'We want more time'. The right honourable member for Lowe said: 'We want more time'. The only  speaker  in the Opposition parties who said "We do not want more time' - he was completely honest in this sense - was the honourable member for Moreton. And what did he talk about? The code of Hammurabi. 
He went back into ancient history and spent three-quarters of his time talking about ancient legal history. And we are talking about time! I invite the Opposition members to reflect on how the time of this Parliament was wasted today. When we reached the Committee stage we spent the first 10 or 15 minutes debating clause 1  -  the title of the Bill  -  'Which says: 'This Act may be cited as the Trade Practices Act 1973'. We heard the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  waffling on and wasting 10 or 15 minutes. It became completely obvious to anyone who was listening that the Opposition speakers were determined to do nothing but be frivolous and irresponsible and to act like petulant children, notwithstanding that by common recognition by every critic and writer on the subject in Australia this Bill is terribly important. 
Some may disagree with the Bill as some of the more responsible members of the Opposition do. That is their right. But they are not entitled to treat this place with disrespect and ridicule, as they were setting out to do when they started to talk about clause 1 and then went on as did the honourable member for Petrie, who is sitting opposite or lolling in his seat. That is the only reason why the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  moved his motion. This measure is important to the people of Australia. It is an extremely important measure, as was conceded by honourable members opposite when they paused long enough to make any concessions at all. It bears a relationship to inflation. It bears a relationship to the marshalling of economic power in this country. It bears a relationship to the removal of uncertanty in the business community. All these things are terribly important. Yet honourable members opposite spent their time waffling about Watergate and ancient codes, as the honourable member for Moreton did. 
It seems that the only way in which the Opposition can be reminded of the importance of this legislation is for a motion of this sort to be moved. 
I rise to congratulate the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun).  I did not intend to speak on this subject, but being the member for the Australian Capital Territory and having been for approximately 9 months the Minister for the Capital Territory 1 am very concerned at the situation that has arisen. I think it is important that the honourable member should have performed this contribution of recording in Hansard the situation that has developed. I first became aware of what was happening in, I think, late 1971 or early 1972. I placed questions on the notice paper to the then Government about it, trying to elicit information, because my information was that a scheme was being evolved and devised with the assistance and advice of accountants and lawyers to maximise the compensation that would have to be paid sooner or later. 
The Government of the day fobbed me off. Anyone who cares to read the Hansard for that time will see that the answers to my questions were really not answers at all. But the truth came out. We know now that the difference between the price that was put on that land - about $1.5m as I remember it. itself grossly inflated and far more than would have been paid if the land had been acquired years ago as it should have been - was matched by a counter offer from the proprietors, T. A. Field Pty Ltd, of something like $35m. No one knows what will happen in the High Court. But if that figure has to be paid by the taxpayers, by most orthodox accepted standards it will have to be passed on to the people who buy land at and live in or rent houses in Tuggeranong. That is a scandal. It is iniquitous. It is a pernicious and malicious development that should have been and could have been avoided. 
Most of the points have been made by the honourable member for Kingston, but I make the point that we who sit on the Government side of the chamber listen to the spokesmen from the Opposition side. They use words, I suppose, as we all use words. But words can be used to hide thoughts. I suppose all advocates have to do that to some extent. One judges a person not by what he says but by his actions. If people who listen to words are in doubt as to whether the  speaker  is sincere or whether he stands for what he is talking about, one should judge what those words achieve. If one applies that test to the Opposition spokesmen in this House one finds that they stand for the very things that the honourable member for Kingston spoke about - a protection of privilege and a protection of wealth. 
I can give just a few examples that occur to me tonight. Honourable members opposite opposed and delayed in every way they could the restrictive trade practices legislation of this Government. They really do not want to see free competition. 
 I will content myself with saying that the Opposition advances the interests not of the people of Australia but of the people who benefit from monopolies and restrictive trade practices. When one measures the action of Opposition members in this way one sees that the benefit goes in the way I have described. Consider the Government's proposals on the Australian Industry Development Corporation - a measure designed to buy back Australia from overseas interests. Where does the opposition to it come from? The Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party. Whose interests does that opposition serve - the interests of the overseas companies. 
There can be no doubt about that. The measure is designed to buy back the assets of Australia which have been sold to overseas interests. Who oppose the legislation - the Liberals and the Australian Country Party. They do not use those words to oppose if but that is the consequence of their opposition. 
The Government's proposals for the Industries Assistance Commission are based essentially on the proposition that the system whereby assistance, subsidies and benefits are given to industries, both secondary and rural, should be made public. Who opposed that legislation? The Australian Country Party, because traditionally it had preferred to grant such concessions in its own quiet way and not to have the light of publicity shone on them. So who benefits from the opposition? The people who get those benefits, the people who are not prepared to have the benefits brought out into the light of day where the public can scrutinise their actions. The same applies to the land acquisition compensation measure. The Liberals in the Senate and their Country Party colleagues opposed it. Who benefits from the opposition? The proprietors of the property. That was described so eloquently by the honourable member for Kingston. Who suffers? The people who will some day have to live in Tuggeranong. I finish on that point. Words can be used to hide thoughts but in this situation one has to look behind the words and see what are the actions that those words further and who benefits from them. Then we will know who are the various spokesmen for the various interests in the country. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
See the answer to (1). 
I present the report, together with minutes of proceedings, of the Committee of privileges in connection with the matter referred to the Committee by the House on 20 September 1973. 
Ordered that report be printed. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
 Mr Chairman,  since I entered the chamber in the course of this Committee debate, the principal part of the time taken up in this discussion on this Bill causes one to bring to mind the credibility of Opposition spokesmen. 
I mean that quite seriously. Let us consider the clauses that are under review at this time. They are clauses 30 to 44 of the Bill. I exclude from my comments the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  If one considers the remarks of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and what he carried on with - I put my description of his behaviour in those words - one cannot help but ask: What is the level of credibility of Liberal Party spokesmen on this issue? Whatever the issue may be, credibility must always be relevant to the question of that issue. If one is hearing an opponent argue against one's case in which certain propositions are put forward, one is always entitled to attack the credibility of one's opponent. That is certainly the case by any standard with which I am familiar. I wish to attack the credibility of some members of the Opposition in this regard. I do exclude the honourable member for Moreton from this attack, not because I like him or because he is a friend, although I must admit that that plays a little part as I have some respect for him - sometimes- 
I repeat what I said last night. Some politicians, it seems to me, must be judged more by what they do and the actions which follow from what they do than be judged on what they say. If one reviews the history of trade practices legislation in this country, one sees a most serious reflection on the credit of honourable members sitting opposite. They have used one smokescreen or another and one device or another in approaching this debate. The best example of what I claim was seen last night when honourable members opposite commenced the Committee debate by playing around and seeking to amend paragraph 1. They were arguing about the title of the Bill. What the situation really comes down to is this: Honourable members opposite know that, because of their behaviour or, if they like, their determination to frustrate, giggle and laugh at, and sabotage the passage of this most serious measure, the Government imposed a guillotine on the Bill. That is what the position boils down to. The Government is allowing so many hours of debate on this measure because the consideration of it cannot go on forever while honourable members opposite giggle, chatter and carry on in the way in which they have. 
Certainly. It seems to me that this is relevant to this discussion of clauses 30 to 44 which simply deal with the constitution of the Trade Practices Tribunal. How is one to interpret what members of the Opposi tion are saying? They know that the time allotted for this debate will expire at 4.45 p.m. They know that the time now is 3.2 p.m. With the exception of the honourable member for Moreton, honourable members opposite are not interested in debating the merits of this legislation. 
They are not interested in the merits of this legislation. Yet these are the people who in the second reading stage of this Bill complained that they did not have time to debate it. How much time do honourable members want to consider clauses 30 to 44? How much time do they want? The need for legislation on trade practices was first raised in Australian public life in 1961. The thinking that lies behind clauses 30 to 44 was first raised in 1961 when  Sir Garfield  Barwick drew attention to the great scandal that existed in Australian life in that Australia did not have any effective anti-restrictive trade practices legislation. That occurred 12 years ago. 
I will. I come back to the clauses. Essentially, their purpose is to set up the Trade Practices Tribunal. The Trade Practices Tribunal, as we know, consists of a judge of a Federal court, not being a judge of the High Court or the court of an external Territory or a person who has the status of a judge of the Court. Those qualifications are set out in clause 31 (1) of the Bill. Clause 30 of the Bill provides: 
The Trade Practices Tribunal in existence immediately before the commencing date continues in existence as the Trade Practices Tribunal. 
This is the body set up by the former Government. This is what is established. We say that what was established shall continue. Yet honourable members opposite carry on in the way in which they have behaved because they are talking the Bill out until 4.45 p.m. notwithstanding that yesterday they said that they did not have time to consider the proposition and notwithstanding the history of this matter, it must be said, commenced in 1961. In 1965, a toothless, gummy piece of legislation was introduced by the then Attorney-General,  Mr 
Snedden, who is now the Leader of the Opposition. That legislation was described as toothless by most of the eminent critics on this subject in Australia. That legislation achieved one thing after some 7 or 8 years of operation. It repealed the one piece of effective legislation the country had, the Australian Industries Preservation Act. The Opposition should be judged by what it serves, not by what it says. It serves procrastination. It serves the interests of the people who do not want effective restrictive trade practices legislation, and it has been doing so consistently. Under the guise of saying that it did not have time to think about the Bill, last night the Opposition argued for 10 or 15 minutes on what the Bill should be called. 
The clauses set out the constitution of the Trade Practices Tribunal. As I have said, they list the qualifications of members of the Tribunal. To be appointed a member may be a judge of a Federal court, not being the High Court, or he may be a person who has the status of a judge. What is wrong with that? That is what we are talking about. 
What is wrong with that? Subclause (2) of clause 31 states: 
A person shall not be appointed as a member of the Tribunal other than a presidential member unless he appears to the Governor-General- 
What is wrong with the Governor-General? 
Is that not the procedure the former Government followed? Is there not precedent over 500 or 600 years for that form of words? The subclause goes on:   . . to be qualified for appointment by virtue of his knowledge of, or experience in, industry, commerce or public administration. 
What held me up in coming to this debate was that I was addressing a group of leaders of Australian industry. Some of them may well be qualified to sit on this Tribunal, I do not know. But what is wrong with writing into the Act that he shall be qualified by virtue of his knowledge of, or experience in, industry, commerce, or public administration? 
Well, what is your complaint? 
The roles are very different. Let me illustrate the absurdity of my good friend's position. The present Act, toothless and useless as it largely is, serves one purpose only, and that is to make people aware of how useless and toothless it is. That is the only useful purpose it serves. We know what we do not have. We have one commissioner,  Mr Bannerman,  a fine public servant. Does the Opposition level its criticisms at him? He is one man. 
So do we. Because of the increased amount of work in large measure that the Commission will have, the proposition now is not to have one man but to have many men, several men, doing the work, because there is wisdom in collective thinking, in groups of people, committees, working together and exchanging ideas. Every criticism the Opposition has levelled at the Commission can be levelled at the Commissioner whose position the former Government created. Every criticism can be levelled at one individual. Where does the Opposition's argument stand now? It bears repeating that every criticism the Opposition has levelled at the Commission can be levelled at the Commissioner whom it appointed. The Opposition does not criticise him because he was virtually its man, and a good man. But the Opposition does not approve a whole system of upgrading to serve the needs of the Australian people. It must be said again in the context of clauses 30 to 44 that the Tribunal, consisting of the most eminent men in the country, will be set up to consider, review appeals from the Commission and to consider whether the matter should go to the industrial court, again consisting of some of the most eminent men. There is a relationship there. One must have regard again to the credibility of this Opposition which chatters, talks and stalls as it does. It is determined to delay the passage of this Bill as long as it possibly can, and it has been very successful. Its success can be measured by the fact that it has denied Australia proper trade practices legislation since 1961. Then when it could not delay any legislation any longer it brought in toothless legislation in 1965. An excellent former Attorney-General,  Mr Tom  Hughes, who is now practising at the New South Wales bar, on 7 September 1971 had something to say which touches on the question of this Tribunal. He was driven almost to despair by the procrastination and delay of the Government of which he had once been a member. When he was leaving this Parliament and going back into private practice at the bar he said: 
The Government now has an opportunity as a result of last Friday's decision of the High Court of Australia to make a great impact for the public good upon the commercial life of this country. It can enact legislation- 
Where is the legislation the former Government enacted? Perhaps Tom Hughes resigned as a member of this Parliament and a member of the Liberal Party because of the sense of frustration he expressed. One does not know, but that was his thinking. Also inherent in the role that the Tribunal will have to play is the fact that that gentleman also touched on the basic philosophy running through this legislation - the fact that generally contracts and restraintive trade offend all of us, and offend us for good purpose. They work against the public interest, and the common law recognised it in its wisdom hundreds of years ago, and the honourable member for Moreton, whom I single out for special attention - if you forgive me,  Mr Chairman,  I do tins - recognised that in his speech the other night. He was the one contributor from the Opposition bench who did not say: 'We have not had enough time' because he has been living with this problem, as we all have since 1961. 
 For  12  years. But he does not say: 'We have not had enough time*. He is too honest to say that, but the credibility of the other gentlemen who sit alongside him will not measure up to that standard. Let me come back to what the then Attorney-General said when he talked about the principles running through these problems. On 29 February 1972 he said: 
I regret to say that I am bound to say that it is a matter of disappointment that it has taken so long. I hope it will not be much longer. 
That is a long while ago, 18 months ago. He went on: 
How much longer, oh Lord, how much longer? 
There is the anguish of  Mr Tom  Hughes, then the honourable member for Berowra, whose successor sits at the table. He said: 
I hope it will not be much longer. How much longer, oh Lord, how much longer, one might ask, to introduce tough effective trade practices legislation to deal with the problem of these generally pernicious horizontal restrictive trade practices? 
It took a Labor Government to introduce the legislation. It took the Party that  Mr Tom  Hughes once tried to serve in this House again to stall, again to go right through the ritual that drove him to despair back in February 1972. It took that Parry to delay and frustrate again and say: 'Defer it. We still want more time to think'. 
I take your point,  Mr Chairman.  I will finish on this note. Clauses 30 to 44 are standard forms. We are debating the Trade Practices Tribunal. I will finish on one point that my honourable friend from Moreton mentioned, namely, the relationship between the Tribunal and the courts. One aspect of it was the doubt about constitutionality. The boilermarkers case establishes a certain principle about that, and the question of stating a case of law before the court was considered to be in doubt. 

 Mr KILLEN (Moreton) &lt;3.13) - The answer which the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  has given regarding the absence of any right of appeal on a question of law seems to be unsatisfactory, to put it at its very lowest. Surely any government dealing with a power is at liberty to be somewhat venturesome. Why the timidity? Timidity does not particularly become the present Government. I am at a loss to understand why the Minister refers to the boilermakers case and the division, the dichotomy, between administrative and judicial functions. We all understand that. But we are dealing here with a question of law. If an error is made, for example, within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, it is not appealable. It is appealable only when there is no jurisdiction. That, I think, is a shorthand way of describing the manner in which a prerogative order could issue. 
I am dismayed that the Minister has given such an unsatisfactory answer. I make it clear - pluperfect clear - that the Opposition is not complaining about clause 30 and the following clauses dealing with the composition of the 
Trade Practices Tribunal. I draw the Committees attention to what I regard as being a manifest deficiency in these provisions. I have stated the case. I can do no more. As for the excessive praise and generosity of language which the Minister used with respect to myself, I am bound to tell him and the Committee that I now understand how Lazarus must have felt when the dogs licked his wounds. 
I move: 
In clause 49 omit sub-clause (4), substitute the following sub-clause: - "(4) A person shall not, in trade or commerce - 
knowingly induce or attempt to induce a corporation to discriminate directly or indirectly between different purchasers of goods of like grade and quality in relation to a matter referred to in paragraph (l)(a), (b) or (c); or 
enter into any transaction that to his knowledge would result in his receiving the benefit of such a discrimination, if the discrimination is of a kind that is prohibited by this section.". 
The gist of the difference between the original wording and that of the amendment is that the word 'knowingly' is inserted before the prohibition on inducing or attempting to induce a corporation to discriminate in the manner set out in the earlier part of the clause. I think that honourable members will appreciate that it is a step in the direction of recognising that people should be prevented from doing something only if they really have an awareness of what they are doing rather than something that is done perhaps innocently. Perhaps this is an opportune time to say that in considering these clauses which deal with price discrimination, mergers and certain other practices which are dealt with in the Trade Practices Bill - it of course really could be called the Anti Restrictive Trade Practices Bill - the Government recognises, and I certainly recognise, that the vast majority of businesses in Australia are conducted by extremely well meaning, responsible, civic minded men and women who are wholly devoted to their duties and to the weight of the task which they shoulder in trying to administer their businesses so that they can fit in with changing circumstances in Australia. 
I have always said that. But when one recognises that, one has to say also that the purpose of this Bill, recognised by so many people who wrote on the subject over so many years, is to strengthen Australian industry; to strengthen its efficiency by strengthening its competitive qualities. I suppose that this Bill really could have been given a different name were a government so minded to give it a different name. Instead of the Trade Practices Bill, although that is a well understood term, it could have been termed the Competition Bill because that is really the theme underlying it. It is a theme designed to encourage and bring about competition. It leans against those forms of agreement which are opposite to competition - those forms of practices and agreements which are occasionally, and perhaps more than occasionally, resorted to by some sectors of industry which negate competition and which result in monopolies and monopolisation. It is that practice that brings about by inducement a lack of efficiency in Australian industry. It is that practice that sometimes allows Australian industry to shelter behind excessive tariff laws and an undervalued Australian dollar as was the case in the past. 
As honourable members and the listening public would know, it is an essential part of the Government's scheme for strengthening and making more healthy Australian industry and Australian business generally that it should recognise the fact that competition is basically good. As I said before the common law recognised this many years ago. At the risk of giving undue preference to the previous honourable member for Berowra I should like to quote him again on this subject. I quote something that he said on 7 September 1971. He was then a prominent member of the Liberal Party which was in government. As I remember he was not a member of the Government but he had once been the Attorney-General. He said: 
I think we must return to what is after all a very good basic common law principle and that is that he who undertakes restraint of trade must have cast fairly and squarely upon him the onus of establishing that the restraint serves the public interest. 
It was the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who mentioned the Nordenfeldt case the other night, which of course is consistent with that principle.  Mr Hughes,  the then honourable member for Berowra, went on to say: 
I have heard it said - I do not think rightly said - that it is somehow unjust to cast upon parties to anti-competitive agreements the onus of justifying those agreements as being in -the public interest. The common law was quite clear about this, and I think we should return to the sound common sense of the common law. The onus should be upon the person who wishes to restrain competition to show that that restraint serves the public interest. 
That is of course essentially and basically what this Bill seeks to do - to implement that basic thinking that has come down to us through history, that healthy instinct, that collective wisdom that was a feature of the Anglo-Saxon people in Britain and which has spread right around the world, to the United States of America, large parts of Canada, Asia, India and other parts of the world. I refer to that basic common sense principle that practices, contracts and agreements that restrict competition are basically bad. It was that principle that we moved away from. It was that principle that the previous Government refused to face up to. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  has come into the chamber. I seem to remember - I had not been a member of this Parliament very long - when  Mr Hughes  who was then the honourable member for Berowra spoke on this subject in the last year that he was here - that was shortly after the concrete pipes case had been decided - he turned to the then Prime Minister, as the right honourable member for Lowe then was, and indicated that these sorts of measures were necessary and desirable and expressed the hope that soon they would be introduced. The Hansard record confirms this. 
However, we are talking about clause 49 and the other provisions which really are typical of the measures which the Government seeks to implement. They reflect tHe common law thinking. They reflect the better thinking in the Liberal Party, 'I suggest, certainly when the previous honourable member for Berowra was a member of this Parliament. I commend the amendment. 
 The frequent references that are made to the American influence on this Bill call for an answer. I can assure the Committee that the officers who are responsible for this Bill and certainly all of this detail were the very officers who were responsible for the trade practices legislation enacted by the previous Government. 
Yes. They did have the benefit of some advice and some assistance on the way in which the American system works. 
Yes, indeed. But you are criticising the drafting. I will say a few words about that in a moment. I wanted to be brief. But if the honourable member wishes to interject, I cannot be brief. Those officers had the benefit of some advice. Indeed, why should they not have that advice? It is a reasonable assumption that in a situation such as this we could benefit from the experience of Britain, America and Canada. The Americans and the Canadians probably have had more experience In this field than any other countries. A  Mr Dietrich  who was General Counsel to the United States Federal Trade Commission gave the Parliamentary Counsel the benefit of his advice. I am informed that the draftsman who actually did this work - and we are proud of the quality of his work - is  Mr Geoff  Kolts of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. As is well known, the First Parliamentary Counsel is  Mr Charles  Comans. I pay a short tribute to the work done by these men. Honourable members opposite again have used their time by being critical-- 
 Yesterday, honourable members opposite were saying that they did not have enough time to discuss this legislation. Today, they are talking irrelevancies. They knew that the problem was there for solution since 1961. Now honourable members opposite want more time to debate the legislation. I wish to pay a short tribute to the work of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. The officers of that Office have done a magnificent job for the Government since it came to power. They have done an absolutely magnificent job. It was always thought that the bottleneck to an imaginative course of legislative reform would be the shortage of parliamentary counsel because this is a world-wide problem. But the Office of Parliamentary Counsel under the direction of  Mr Charles  Comans has reacted magnificently and his officers have worked extremely hard and extremelycapably. This magnificent Bill in large measure is the result of their labours. 
I wish to make one point in response to the remarks of the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke),  who talked about market and monopolies. He used the expression 'one third of the market', which is an alternative to the one used by the Government in its legislation. I suggest to the honourable member that, on reflection, that is really a term that is illusory. If one has to determine what is a market, I point out that a market involves a consideration of the substitutes and the alternatives to a particular commodity, as the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  has mentioned. The better test surely is to leave the determination of a market to the professional bodies which will investigate that aspect and reach decisions in that regard. Ultimately, if it becomes necessary, determination rests with the Industrial Court. 
On the question of. monopoly, I refer again to the remarks of the previous speaker whose speech was typical of the contributions made, if I may so, by Opposition members. He said that the offence, as it were - it is not really an offence - is the offence of being a monopoly. 
That is not the case. One has only to read the Bill to see that. If one looks at clause 46 of the Bill which deals with monopolisation, and not monopoly, practices, one sees that that clause describes the course of conduct that is to be discouraged - I will put it in that form here - as that conducted by a monopoly, but the actual behaviour is spelt out in 3 paragraphs to the first sub-clause of clause 46. That clause provides: 
A corporation that is in a position substantially to control a market for goods or services-- 
That defines a monopoly - 
. shall not engage in conduct-- 
What could be more specific than that? These terms are well understood in courts of law. The clause continues: 
. directed  to - 
eliminating or substantially damaging a competitor in the market; 
It is the conduct by monopoly, not the actual situation of being a monopoly, that is to be discouraged. It goes on: 
preventing the entry of a person into that market; or 
deterring or preventing a person from engaging in competitive behaviour in that market. 
Those forms of conduct are frowned upon and discouraged. It is behaviour and conduct of that type that is the gist of the legislataion. 
I put it to the honourable member for Petrie that he is way off the beam when he says that it is monopolisation as such that is involved. In many ways I would agree with him when he says that one must look at the way in which monopolies and competition works. One surely must take a stand as the common law always has in these matters and say, prima facie, that competition produces a healthier situation than monopolies produce because there are greater dangers from monopolies than there is from competition. I have already taken the Committee through the remarks of the former member for Berowra on that point in which he described the benefits of competition. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in presenting the 1973-74 Budget, proposes amendments to the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act 1967-1972. The amendments are designed to impose a limit on the amount of financial grant payable under the selective grant provisions of the Act, and to allow consideration of applications for grants from companies carrying out worthwhile industrial research and development, but whose research and development supervisors do not possess the existing professional qualifications required by the Act. The amendments may be regarded as interim measures aimed at correcting what are 2 significant shortcomings of the current Act, pending a more fundamental and comprehensive review of the scheme 
The Industrial Research and Development scheme, as it exists currently, aims generally at promoting an awareness within Australian industry of the importance of technological innovation and the central role played by research and development activities in the continuing process of development and introduction of such innovation in the form of new and improved products and processes. In broad terms, the scheme operates as an incentive to Australian manufacturing and mining companies to increase their own spending on industrial research and development activities, basically by means of financial grants related to their increased spending on research and development activities in a particular year - the grant year - over their average annual spending on such activities during a 3-year moving base period. Additionally, industrial research and development plant expenditure is subject to separate special provisions for the purpose of grant calculations. General grants are provided for eligible research and development expenditure of up to $50,000 during a particular grant year. The rate of general grant currently being applied is 50 per cent of eligible expenditure. Selective grant provisions apply to the eligible outlays of a company in excess of $50,000 in the grant year. 
The position in Australia, as in most industrialised countries, is that a significant proportion of research and development is carried out by the larger enterprises. It is however a fact that a large part of industry in Australia is small to medium sized. Published statistics show that over 93 per cent of all manufacturing establishments operating at the end of June 1969 employed fewer than 100 persons, and less than one per cent employed 500 or more persons. Given the pattern of industrial research and development performance in Australian industry, there are strong reasons for supporting the contention that the largest corporations are in most cases already well aware of the commercial benefits of research and development and are in far less need of a government incentive for this purpose than firms in the small and medium-sized bracket. A large percentage of grant payments under the industrial research and development grants scheme, however, have gone to the larger companies. Out of the total $14m allocated in grant payments by the Board during 1972-73 about 2 per cent of grant recipient companies received almost one-third of the total grant payments made. 
The Government proposes, therefore, to amend the Act to  allow  a limit to be imposed on the amount of selective grant payable to any one company or its wholly-owned subsidiaries for any one grant year. The Bill proposes  an  initial limit  of  '$200,000 on selective grants for 1972-73 industrial research and development, the bulk of which will be paid out of the 1973-74 Budget allocation. This would mean that the maximum total grant payable to a company for its 1972-73 industrial research and development spending would be $225,000, made up of a general grant component of $25,000 and a selective grant component of $200,000. The Bill contains provision to vary, by regulation, the selective grant limit in succeeding years should circumstances so warrant. 
The Government, in proposing this amendment, recognises, however, that there may be cases where there would be significant national interest reasons for providing levels of support exceeding this limit. The Bill therefore contains provision for waiver of the limitation, where a particular company can provide compelling reasons, in terms of benefits in the national interest. As the particular circumstances in which a case for such waiver may arise will vary significantly from company to company, each case arising will be judged in terms of its particular individual merits. 
The Bill also proposes an amendment to the professional qualification requirement of the scheme. To be eligible for grants, the existing legislation requires  that  research and development must be carried out by a professionally qualified person, or someone in a position of direct technical assistance to him. The basic objective of this provision was to provide some assurance that the industrial research and development undertaken by companies could be expected to be of a satisfactory technical standard. Additionally, the requirement was aimed at facilitating the adoption of modern technological developments from academic and other fundamental research institutions and to encourage the provision of employment opportunities within Australian industry for professionally trained research and developmental personnel and laboratory assistants. 
Although these are desirable objectives, the provision has meant that a number of Australian companies - principally smaller concerns - performing worthwhile research and development have been unable to receive consideration for grant purposes solely due to an inability to meet the professional qualification requirement. In a number of cases companies have their research and development performed or directed by people with a high degree of skill and experience but lacking formal qualifications. It is the Government's intention therefore to extend the current provisions of the Act to all companies which have skilled research directors and the necessary capability to carry out systematic experimentation and analysis. The Bill provides for applications for grants to be considered when either the person supervising the research possesses a formal professional qualification, or when, by virtue of proven practical experience, the research supervisor can reasonably be regarded as being able competently to supervise industrial research and development. 
The proposed amendment is designed to allow recognition of grant applications from companies with persons whose skills, ability and experience fit them to carry out work by way of industrial research and development for the company without lessening the quality of supervision and direction of industrial research and development in companies. It is envisaged that companies seeking to avail themselves of the new provisions would initially make a request in writing to the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board detailing the particular skills and experience possessed by the person or persons directing or performing their research and development. The Board would then refer such cases on to an advisory committee for examination. The committee will make recommendations to the Minister for Secondary Industry, who will, in turn, advise the Board of his decision as to whether the company's nonprofessionally qualified industrial research and development director has been approved and that therefore the company's industrial research and development expenditures may be admitted for consideration for grant purposes. The company will, of course, have to satisfy all the other criteria for grants, as is the case for companies whose research is conducted under the supervision of professionally qualified persons. 
The Government is aware that the existing scheme, first introduced in 1967, has had some measure of success as a fairly broad incentive aimed at making Australian industries recognise the importance of industrial research and development. Having achieved such a level of recognition, however, the Government is concerned that increasing attention should be given in future to channelling assistance not only into areas of greatest need but also into areas showing the greatest technical and commercial promise. To this extent, then, the current proposals may be regarded as interim only, pending the fuller and more detailed consideration of the whole question of Government assistance for industrial research and development which was announced in the Budget Speech. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Molten)  adjourned. 
My attention has been drawn to the remarks as reported in the newspapers, particularly in Queensland, of the Premier of Queensland. In fact it will be of some interest perhaps if I inform the House that on the Monday night before he made those remarks he and I attended a public function hosted by Queensland Alumina Ltd, and he listened to me describe the achievements of the Australian Government and he also listened to me describe the problems of this Government, and he did not dissent in any way. But, out of sight and out of mind, on the following morning he issued that Press statement. I took the first opportunity, at the opening of a plant in Gladstone the following day, to repudiate and reject it, as I do now. I strongly suggest that no weight be attached to it. The decision by Comalco was a decision it took by itself. It chose to put no reasons to the public as to why it took this decision. 
It did not. The Premier of Queensland did. It is a well known fact that decisions of such magnitude, decisions which affect the world wide trading operations of enterprises of that sort, are influenced greatly by overseas trends, and the coming into balance of the supply and demand situation throughout the world in the processing of alumina and the marketing of aluminium is obviously and clearly the most important thing that that company must have had in mind. It is sheer, rank, irresponsible political opportunism on the part of the Queensland Premier to try to score cheap political points in the way in which he did in Queensland. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report on the activities and developments of the Department of Supply for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
We see once more the Opposition determined to prevent or at least to make it difficult for the Government to achieve any significant social reform. Whatever measure can be tested by reference to what should be done and what should be brought about in this House one can predictably gamble on opposition from the Libera] Party and the Australian Country Party These proposals for these constitutional- 
I ask the honourable member to listen. The proposals for these constitutional reforms can be traced back virtually to the turn of the century. However, the present proposals go back in more immediate times to 1959. What is the Government's proposal? That the people of Australia - not this House - should be given the chance to consider whether they want to change their Constitution. That is the gist of it. The Government's proposal is not that the Constitution be changed here and indeed it cannot be changed here. 
Opposition members interjecting - 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The anger, the frustration and the intemperate language are predictable from the 
Opposition. All the Government seeks to do is to give the people of Australia at a referendum the opportunity to consider 3 propositions that have been put forward and argued about by writers on political science and by writers on constitutional reform virtually ever since this nation came into being. The matter has been stirred up from time to time and was put forward and discussed as recently as a month ago in Sydney at the Constitutional Convention. Where does the opposition to the people having a chance to express their views come from? It comes predictably from the Liberal Party and the Country Party. 
One should see what these 3 propositions are that the Government wants the people of Australia to be allowed to consider - propositions which the Oppositions opposes. It says that the people should not be allowed even to consider them at a referendum - perhaps one of the most democratic ways of deciding things in a democratic society. The first is the Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill. Reflect on those words,  Mr Speaker.  The proposition is that the people should be allowed to think about democracy. Who opposes the Bill? The Country Party is foremost, predictably. Who joins with it in its opposition? The Liberal Party, predictably. 
I am indebted to you for your guidance,  Mr Speaker.  The reason why Standing Orders should be suspended to deal with these urgent Bills is that they are essentially important. Nothing could be more important than the democratic processes of Australia and nothing could be more important and indeed urgent than that the people of Australia should be entitled to consider these propositions. If one wanted another reason for declaring these urgent Bills it is the obvious entrenched Opposition determination to prevent the people being allowed to think about them and to express their views that comes from the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party. 
Consider the second Bill,  Mr Speaker.  It seeks to let the people of Australia consider the role that local government should play in their own affairs and the relationship between local government and the State Parliaments and the relationship between local government and this Australian Government. What could be more important than that? What could be more urgent that that? Predictably the opposition comes from the Liberal Party and the Country Party. 
I do not mind the Opposition saying that local government people should have no say in their own affairs. That is predictable and understandable. We have seen enough of Opposition members to understand this. They are always saying that. But what is wrong and scandalous is that the Opposition says that the people of Australia should not even be allowed to consider these proposals in referenda. That is the proposition that the Opposition is putting up and that is what we seek to prevent. 
As to the first of the several questions asked by the honourable member, I do not think that there can be any doubt that the average Australian would be provoked by the sight of Nazi uniforms being worn in the streets of Australia. As to the other questions asked by the honourable member and the problems inherent in them, I will certainly refer them to the AttorneyGeneral for his sympathetic consideration. It seems to me that the problem of banning of political parties is, of course, a very difficult one. When one considers the Nazi Party one has to take the view that it is hardly in the same accord or category of organisations as would be called political parties because it rests almost entirely on a principle of violence, racism, anti-semitism, the repudiation of all democratic principles, the fuehrer principle and the negation of everything which the democratic principles reflect and for which this Parliament, for example, stands. I think that any member of this House who went through the experience of the years of World War II and saw what nazism could do to the world will agree with me. The camps of Dachau, Buchenwald, Auschwitz, Treblinka and others of that sort can only be a reminder of the horrors that the nazis are capable of producing. The wearing in public gatherings of the nazi uniform is a symbol of that hatred and that violence for which the Nazi Party stands. I will certainly draw the Attorney-General's attention to the matters implicit in the honourable member's question. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (4)  Mr Milte,  who is a practising barrister, was engaged to advise the Attorney-General in connection with Croatian matters. This engagement covered the period from 13 March to 6 April 1973. The fees paid to  Mr Milte  in respect of that period were: 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (4) The information sought by this question appears from the answer provided to question No. 405. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (6)  Mr Milte  accompanied the AttorneyGeneral to the regional office of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Canberra on the night of 15-16 March 1973 and to the headquarters of that Organisation in Melbourne on 16 March 1973.  Mr Milte  was present as an adviser to the Attorney-General. 
See answers to Question No. 405. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) It is not the accepted practice to disclose the number of ASIO staff. There is no significant difference in the figures at the given dates. 
 The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
None. 
None. 
On 28 February 1971 a male person was assaulted by six youths who spoke to him in terms that clearly indicated that they regarded him as a homosexual. The offenders have not been identified. Between 25 and 31 January 1972 two suspected male homosexuals were assaulted and robbed, but subsequent investigations were unsuccessful in establishing the identity of the offenders. Between 17 and 28 February four suspected male homosexuals were administered stupefying drugs and robbed. The offenders in each case were later arrested and convicted in the A.C.T. Supreme Court. On 24 February 1972 a further two suspected male homosexuals were assaulted and robbed and, in both cases, the offenders were later arrested and convicted. On 2 June 1972 a male person was fatally assaulted after, the offender claims, the victim made homosexual advances to him. The offender was subsequently convicted of murder. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer: 
The working party will comprise officers of my Department and representatives of the Chief Secretary's Department, New South Wales; the Chief Secretary's Office, Victoria; the Department of Justice, Queensland; the Premier's Department, South Australia; the Chief Secretary's Department, Western Australia; the Attorney-General's Department, Tasmania. 
The working party's terms of reference are to examine and report to the Australian and State Governments on the practicability of implementing on a uniform basis the Australian Government's policy on censorship. 
Yes. On 29 and 30 October 1973. 
It is expected that members of the working party will soon be able to submit a final report to their Ministers. 
(Australian Capital Territory - Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply) - I present the report, together with the minutes of proceedings, of the Committee of Privileges in connection with the matter referred to the Committee by the House on 15 October 1973. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. In March of this year a Portuguese company expressed interest in marketing the Nomad aircraft in continental Portugal and overseas. 
The Company indicated that the Portuguese Air Force had a requirement for aircraft which the company considered was within the capability of the Nomad. The Company forecast requirements for 50 to 100 aircraft. 
The Company has been advised through the Australian Embassy in Lisbon that the Australian Government would not permit the sale of the military version of the Nomad aircraft to the Portuguese Air Force. Such a sale would be inconsistent with the Australian Government's support for the United Nations resolution 2918 of 14 November 1972. However, should the company be interested in sales of the civil version of the Nomad aircraft for non-military purposes in Portugal, the Government Aircraft Factories would be pleased to consider their request. 
No further advice has been received from the Company. 
 I think there appeared in this morning's newspapers an announcement of the Government's intention to set up under the chairmanship of  Sir Walter  Scott a committee of inquiry to look into the question of Government procurement policies and to report to us early next year. Therefore the Government is very aware of the issue put in the honourable member's question. The question of using the various factories that are operated by the Department of Supply and which of course are geared largely to the maintenance of a defence potential also has been under very detailed study. A committee of inquiry into work loads was established in October at the direction of the Minister for Defence. I understand that this group has completed its initial studies and is reporting to the Department of Supply. A committee within the Department of Supply is working with representatives of the unions involved to ascertain what are the best ways of utilising the production capacity of the factories and of obtaining civilian or non-defence orders to maintain the capacity. As the honourable member who has a factory of this type within his electorate would know, this is not an easy problem to solve. The Supply factories have a level of quality built into them because of the defence role which they play which makes it not easy for them to convert to this new role. The factory at Lithgow, for example, does a lot of civilian work. It has made golf clubs for years and it does contract work oh domestic appliances and also in the automotive industry. We are determined to look into the matter as hard as we can to see whether we can come up with a solution to the problem. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Results of overseas inquiries into the correlation between erotic material and adverse behaviour have been available to, and have been studied by me and officers of my Department. I have suggested that this would be a suitable subject for investigation by the Australian Institute of Criminology. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Scales are prescribed in section 82 of the Justices Act 1902-1973 (New South Wales), section 189 of the Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance 1930-1972 (Australian Capital Territory) and section 81 of the Justices Ordinance 1928-1973 (Northern Territory). 
Broadly speaking, the scales provide for imprisonment in default of payment at the rate of a day for every five dollars (New South Wales) and a day for every two dollars (Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory). The New South Wales scale is mandatory, whereas the scales in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory prescribe maxima - i.e. the Court can order a lesser period of imprisonment than the one calculated in accordance with the scale. 
Provisions for imprisonment in default of payment of fines or court costs are made, for New South Wales by Act of the New South Wales Parliament, for the Australian Capital Territory by Ordinance made by the Governor-General, and for the Northern Territory by Ordinance made by the Legislative Council of the Territory, on which elected members have a majority. It is not unusual in such circumstances for legislation not to be uniform. 
The present scale was introduced in the Northern Territory in 1965, Australian Capital Territory in 1967 and New South Wales in 1971. Before 1971 the New South Wales provision was substantially similar to that in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. I have asked my Departmental officers to let me know what scales are in force in the several States with a view to preparing an appropriate amendment for the laws of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. I should add that imprisonment for non-payment of court costs is contrary to the platform of the Australian LaborParty and action will be taken when amending the laws mentioned to remove imprisonment as a sanction for the payment of costs. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend various sections of the Public Service Act which cover 5 different areas. The proposed amendments: Remove certain provisions relating to the employment of women; make certain changes in the provisions relating to long service leave; modify the current blanket prohibition on officers accepting directorships; remove the requirement for officers to take oaths or make affirmations; and change the  title  of the Service. Clauses 7, 8 and 9 of the Bill repeal certain provisions of the Public Service Act which could be regarded as discriminative. 
Sections 43 (b) and 46 (2) (c) (iv) enable the Public Service Board to specify that only males or only females are to be appointed to particular offices or that males or females are to be appointed in particular proportions. Section 54a contains special provisions relating to married women. The repeal of these sections is one of the results of a review of aspects of employment of women in the Australian Public Service conducted by the Public Service Board. The attitude of the Australian community and of women themselves to their role in society are changing. Increasingly it is being accepted that women will assume a more important economic role and will combine marriage with a career which will extend throughout their adult lives. 
On 29 August the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced that the Parliamentary Labor Party had considered the results of the Public Service Board's review. Honourable members will recall that barriers against the permanent appointment of women to the Third Division were removed in 1949, and restrictions against the permanent appointment of married woman to the service were removed in 1966. It was announced in August that as a result of the Board's review, all positions in the Australian Public Service are to be open equally to men and women applicants who can perform the full range of duties required. A number of measures which could and have been taken and which did not require legislation were announced. The Prime Minister indicated that the Government had agreed to repeal these provisions in the Public Service Act which could be said to discriminate against women, but which had become redundant. 
The Government has emphasised that it has a role and responsibility as Australia's largest employer in promoting the status of women. This amendment is one of the steps taken by the Government since coming to office in its endeavour to eliminate possibilities of discrimination and promote opportunity for those women wishing to contribute to the economic prosperity of Australia as members of the work force. 
Clauses 10 and 11 of the Bill relate to long service leave. Under existing legislation the basic qualifying period for long service leave within the Australian Public Service is 15 years. Clauses 10 and 11 cf the Bill amend sections 73 and 74 of the Public Service Act to reduce the qualifying period for long service leave purposes from 15 to 10 years and to remove all long service leave penalties associated with misconduct or unsatisfactory service. Other provisions in the Act regulate conduct and therefore the inclusion of a good conduct requirement in the long service leave provisions simply means that public servants may be subjected to penalties twice for one disciplinary offence. 
Existing section 74 (3a) of the Public Service Act provides for a payment on resignation after 10 years' service where the resignation is justified by domestic or other pressing necessity and the officer is not eligible for a payment in lieu of long service leave. Reduction of the basic qualifying period to 10 years  will  render the section redundant. Officers will become eligible for payment in lieu on resignation for any reason after 10 years. Provision has been made, therefore, for the repeal of section 74 (3a). The associated Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Bill is designed to effect corresponding amendments to the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act which provides for long service leave for temporary employees under the Public Service Act and for persons employed by Australian Government authorities. As indicated earlier this year, these amendments will be effective from 1 January 1973. 
The platform of the Australian Labor Party, on the basis of which this Government attained office, made clear that Labor's industrial policy places human rights and values first and provides for the development of full human dignity in the industrial sphere, lt emphasises the right of full employment; real economic justice; freedom and security; the right to work in just and favourable conditions; freedom from unemployment and freedom to choose employment. Our objective is to promote the interests of all Australian workers. Thus, besides improvements for Commonwealth employees, the policy envisages, inter alia, long service leave for casuals and part time employees generally and portability of benefits. 
Discussions at the meeting of Australian and State Ministers for Labour in August 1973 presented a unique opportunity to explore the possibility of giving effect to these policy intentions, Ministers requested their Permanent Heads to report as a matter of urgency on the desirability and feasibility of the uniform long service leave scheme in Australia. It was emphasised, however, that if projected legislation in the Australian and several State areas were to proceed, the adoption of a uniform scheme could be seriously prejudiced. Accordingly Ministers concerned agreed to recommend to their governments deferral action pending the Permanent Heads' examination and further consideration by Ministers. The Government agreed to this recommendation of our Minister for Labour. 
The Ministers for Labour had a further discussion on the possible development of a uniform long service leave scheme at the end of last month. They expressed particular concern about those working in industries the nature of whose employment precluded the accrual of entitlement to long service leave. Ministers agreed that extension of benefits to these workers should receive priority, though they recognised that there were very considerable practical problems that would have to be overcome. Ministers discussed the possibility of achieving a greater degree of uniformity of long service leave provisions throughout Australia. Long service leave for Government employees is generally provided on a more favourable basis than for workers generally but even without these different groups the provisions in some States are more favourable than those in other areas. Ministers accepted that existing differences in provisions should be extended. The proposal in the Bill is in keeping with this. The basic qualifying period for furlough in almost all State Public Services is already 10 years. 
Finally, the Ministers for Labour considered the adequacy of existing concepts of long service leave and whether there could be portability of service between employers and industries, in the interests of job mobility on the one hand and social justice for the individual employer on the other. The Ministers will be giving the whole matter further consideration at their next meeting early in the new year  -  1974. The proposed amendments in this Bill only implement some of the reforms relating to long service leave within the Australian Public Service which were referred to in April last. Australian Government employees may anticipate further action regarding long service leave provisions just as soon as there is clarification of the wider issues of long service leave or it becomes evident that the achievement of a wider scheme is not feasible. As already announced, the Government intends that new arrangements will be effective from 1 January 1973. 
Clause 12 of this Bill deals with public servants and directorships. Currently section 91 of the Public Service Act includes a blanket prohibition against public servants holding directorships in companies or incorporated societies unless they are co-operative societies. The Government believes that any possibility of conflict or any appearance of conflict between the official interests and the private interests of public servants must be avoided. In proposing some relaxation of the existing blanket prohibition with strict safeguards which I shall describe, the Bill includes a specific prohibition against such situations. But in relation to companies in which the Australian Government has an interest, such as Qantas Airways Limited and Commonwealth Hostels Limited, officers are required to be directors as part of their official duties. The Bill makes specific provision for this circumstance. 
The existing legislation prohibits public servants holding directorships in companies and incorporated societies, such as building societies formed for the purpose of providing home finance for public servants or those formed to facilitate ownership of home units or community organisations or sporting, cultural and educational institutions, unless they are co-operative societies. This amendment removes unnecessary restrictions on Public Service staff organisations which in the past have been hampered in their efforts to operate their own finance companies for the benefit of their members. It also allows public servants to play a full role in community activities. The current restrictions are being replaced by new provisions which will enable the Public Service Board to grant permission to an officer to act as a director of a company or incorporated society. The Board may grant permission only where there is no conflict of interest involved and in circumstances and subject to conditions, to be prescribed in the regulations. Thus the section as amended will be sufficiently flexible to cover a variety of situations but the general circumstances in which approval may be given by the Board will be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. No approvals can be given under the new subsection (4) until regulations have been made detailing the cases and circumstances in which, and the conditions under which, approval may be given. It is therefore provided in sub-clause (2) of clause 2 of the Bill, that the amendments to section 91 are to come into operation on a date to be proclaimed and in sub-clause (2) of clause 12 of the Bill that the necessary regulations may be made, but shall not have effect before that date. 
Existing provisions in the Public Service Act require officers to take an oath or to make an affirmation prior to appointment to the Service and also prior to appointment to a promotions appeal committee or an appeal board. These provisions have no practical effect since officers are required by other sections to carry out their duties in a competent and loyal fashion. Furthermore, there is no requirement for an oath of allegiance in State Public Services or in the British Civil Service. Citizens of some countries and some citizens with dual nationality, risk losing their foreign nationality by taking the oath or affirmation of allegiance. For some migrants the requirement therefore represents a barrier to employment in the Public Service. Even the prospect of temporary employment under the Public Service Act is closed to such persons unless they are individually exempted from the requirement by the Governor-General. Therefore the existing provisions mean that a group of prospective employees is lost to the Public Service. Amendments to remove these provisions are included in the Schedule and a consequential amendment is being made to omit section 55(l)(g) which makes it an offence to do anything in violation of an oath or affirmation. 
Finally, in keeping with the general policy on the title of Australian Government bodies, and as the Prime Minister announced on 20 July 1973, the Bill formally changes the title of the nation's Public Service to 'Australian Public Service'. The opportunity is also being taken to make a number of formal amendments to the Act in accordance with current drafting practice. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read -a  second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to reduce the qualifying period for long service leave from 15 years to 10 years and to remove all long service leave penalties associated with misconduct or unsatisfactory service for temporary employees under the Public Service Act and for employees of Australian Government authorities. These amendments to the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act are being made in conjunction with Public Service Bill (No. 4) 1973. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) adjourned. 
I think the answers to the first 2 questions are yes. If one reads the newspaper reports from Britain one sees the same degree of criticism levelled at government, coming even from business leaders and directed towards a conservative government, as one sometimes finds it in this country. A report which went to the then Minister for Trade and Industry last year made the same point. This Government has taken many important steps to institutionalise the solution to the need for close consultation between business and government. Before the change of government my predecessor began the process of setting up industry panels. Under the Liberal-Country Party Government of last year and previous years there was no such system. They occasionally used panels on an ad hoc basis to solve some problem as it arose but there was tittle, regular, institutionalised structural system of consultation. 
The system of industry panels is well under way. About eight have been established. They meet regularly. They represent employer, employee and consumer groups. They are chaired by senior officers of the Department of Secondary Industry - usually the Secretary of that Department. Following every meeting a report is made to the Minister for Secondary Industry so that government knows what that particular industry is thinking and so that in the same way that particular industry is fully aware of what government is thinking. A close relationship is being established. I should also add that in this country - I cannot comment on the situation in the United 
Kingdom - a lot is achieved by the good work done by local members of this House and presumably by the Senate. They frequently bring leaders of industry into contact with the Government through the appropriate Minister. A lot of good work is done there. In recent months I have been talking about the advantages that might be gained from having an industries council for Australia, which would include not only State Ministers with appropriate responsibilities but also Australian Government Ministers with appropriate responsibilities. It would also include leaders of industry So something of a cultural kind can be created in Australia to take the process still further. But we have made very significant progress in the first year of a Labor Government. 
I thank the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  for the correction.  Mr Speaker,  1 also seek leave to make a statement. 
The last speaker, on behalf of the Country Party, mentioned bitterness. Well, we are seeing it here today. We are seeing bitterness in the House on the part of people, half of whom would not have gone to a state school. 
Well, at least half. They went to wealthy schools and they are showing the bitterness that they represent. They want money to be given to schools which really do not need it. The Australian Labor Party came to power on the firm pledge that it would do right by Australian education and by the school children of Australia who needed assistance. I remind honourable members of the extent of that need. It was only last year, or perhaps the year before, that an independent body said that the state of Australian education was so deplorable after 23 years of Liberal-Country Party neglect that $ 1,400m would not put the situation right. I remind honourable members of that fact. 
The Labor Party came to power pledged to put that situation right as soon as practicable. What did the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  say in this respect? In his speech which opened the election campaign and which persuaded the Australian people to vote for the Australian Labor Party the Prime Minister said: 
The most rapidly growing sector of public spending under a Labor Government will be education. Education should be the great instrument for the promotion of equality. Under the Liberals it was a weapon for perpetuating inequality and promoting privilege. 
Is that not what we are seeing here and now? The privilege and inequality, which honourable members opposite fought so hard to preserve and were so successful in preserving for 23 years and which they now see slipping away from them, have produced the bitterness that has expressed itself in all of their speeches. The Australian Labor Party sees the position in a different light. The Prime Minister, as the then Leader of the Opposition, went on to say for example that under the previous Government the pupils of state and Catholic schools had less than half as good an opportunity as the pupils of non-Catholic independent schools to gain Commonwealth secondary scholarships and very much less than half the opportunity to complete their secondary education. Does anyone deny that that is correct? Does anyone deny that it is the policy of the present Government to spend an additional amount of nearly $700m to put the situation right? Are honourable members opposite saying that the additional $700m should not be spent on education? Are they saying that the money should be denied to education? 
Honourable members opposite , collectively and individually , are hypocrites when they come along and say that they are not opposed to the additional expenditure. Everything they have said here amounts to their saying: 'Give us $5m' - bow they have arrived at that figure Heaven only knows - 'for Melbourne Grammar and Sydney Grammar' - the schools they went to- 'and we might be able to make a deal*. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  actually spoke of that. He said: Let us negotiate'. What do honourable members opposite have with which to negotiate? They do not have any credit. They had 23 years in which to prove that they had credit. They have none. The honourable member for Gwydir wants to do a deal of some sort. He said: 'If you do not let the wealthy schools that are the basis of our support keep the money that we were giving to them we' - the Liberal and Country Parties - *will see that the people who really need the $700m do not get it*. If that is not holding a gun at the head of the school children of Australia, who are represented well toy the Labor Government, I do not know what is. If it is not blackmail, I do not know what is. 
The honourable member for Gwydir said: Let us negotiate'. What does the Opposition have to negotiate about? What sort of deal does it want? It wants money for Melbourne Grammar. It wants money for Sydney Grammar. It does not want anything for the children who go to schools in Surry Hills, Balmain or Glebe. It does not want any of that. The Opposition has said: 'Let us do a deal. Give us $5m Perhaps it will settle for $3m. Perhaps it will settle for $lm. It will get nothing. But the Government will continue its great increase in expenditure on education for the people who need it. The Prime Minister has said that the most rapidly growing sector of public spending under a Labor Government will be education. We will see that it comes about. The spending will not be by way of per capita grants to people who do not need them, so that the rich get richer and the poor get poorer and so that the inequality becomes greater every year. Is it not the experience of everyone who has lived in Australia that the gap between the rich and the poor has grown in the last 20 years? Is that not the experience of the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  who is trying to interject? The honourable member is an honest man. Is it not his experience that the gap between the rich and the poor in this country has grown in the last 20 years? Of course it is. It is the experience of everyone. That is particularly so in the field of education. 
An amount of $ 1,400m has been deemed to be what is needed to put the situation right. The Labor Government has said: 'We will put almost half of it forward in our first year of office. We will not neglect the private school sector. We will just see that its needs arc determined on a proper basis'. The money will go to those who need it most, including the poor Catholic parish schools and the poor private schools - and there are some poor private schools. It will be allocated on the basis of need. What could be more equitable? What could be more just? But honourable members opposite want it on a per capita basis. They are being hypocritical when they come into this chamber and say that there is no difference between the child of a rich man and the child of a poor man. There is hypocrisy in that statement. The children are the same; but honourable members opposite are fooling themselves, although they are not fooling the people of Australia, when they say that there is no inequality between the child of a man on $50,000 who chooses to send that child to Melbourne Grammar or Sydney Grammar and the child of a bus driver on $80 a week, $100 a week, or whatever it happens to be who has to send his child to a state school. There is gross inequality. 
Look at the schools in the slum areas of Australia. I remember seeing advertised last year the curricula of a wealthy private school in Queensland. Do honourable members know what was included in the curricula? That school offered private flying lessons in a Piper Cherokee aircraft. That is the sort of school to which honourable members opposite want to give money. They say that a child at that school also needs help. What about the school children in Glebe, Surry Hills and Balmain. 
And Newtown. I thank the Leader of the House. Honourable members opposite are hypocrites. They are also bastions of privilege. I do not have anything against wealth. I like it. What I want is a better distribution of that wealth and that privilege. 
Mir ENDERBY- The honourable member for Kennedy would win handsomely. 
Mir  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)  - Order! I warn the honourable member for Kennedy that if he does not remain silent I will deal with him. 
The honourable member for Kennedy would win handsomely. The Government set up a committee to take the allocation of funds to education out of the hands of politicians such as honourable members opposite, who would give it to Melbourne Grammar, Sydney Grammar and the like. The Government asked the committee it set up to ascertain where the need really is and said that the money it allocated would go there. Honourable members opposite lost an election on this issue. They know that they cannot win on it in this House because they do not have the numbers. Thank God they do not have the numbers in this chamber. But they have the numbers in a place called the Senate, whose members were not elected at the same time as we were. In fact, half of them were elected as far back as 6 years ago. The circumstances of their election had nothing to do with what led the Australian people to elect the Labor Government to office last year. 
Honourable members opposite have called upon their majority in the Senate, in the most undemocratic way possible, to thwart, frustrate and sabotage what the Australian people thought they were electing, that is, a political party which had a better education policy. 
Honourable members opposite say that what was implicit in everything on which the Australian Labor Party campaigned and everything for which the Australian public voted, including a better deal in education, can be thrown out the window. They say: 'Why should the schools which need the money get $700m if Melbourne Grammar and Sydney Grammar do not get $Sm? That is the attitude of honourable members opposite. They have revealed themselves in their true colours when they have stood up and said those things in this Parliament. The record is abundantly clear. One has only to look at it. For example, in 1972, when honourable members opposite put forward the legislation which they now seek to maintain, although they are no longer in office, and which preserves privilege and increases the difference between poor and rich people, the present Prime Minister, in moving an amendment to the legislation, said that the grants should not be made on the basis provided in the Bill in respect of any year after 1973. He made his position quite clear then. He spoke about the purpose of need. It is in the platform of the Australian Labor Party. It has been there since 1971. It is recorded in the proceedings of this House and it is in the Prime Minister's policy speech. What could be more consistent and proper than that? We were elected on this proposal. 
We were elected on this proposal. Nothing could be more abundantly clear. If we have said one thing, it is that we will increase spending on education based upon the needs of the people who most need it and not upon the needs of Sydney Grammar. Even the Karmel Committee reported that the allocation of funds to the category A schools could not be justified. That was one of its findings. 
My attention has been drawn to the newspaper article to which the honourable gentleman referred. In recent months there has been correspondence between my office and the Inventors Association of Australia, which put a very strong case to enable it better to present a case for assistance to inventors. There have also been discussions on this matter. Indeed, the honourable member was very helpful in bringing a delegation from the Inventors Association to see me a little while ago. The whole problem must be related to the Government's proposals to take account of the fact that invention is a very important contributing factor to overall welfare. Big firms can finance research themselves but small firms often cannot do so. The Government already has before this House proposals which are designed to give assistance to small firms. It is being done by way of amendments to the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act. The whole problem also is related to the Government's proposals to assist small business because small business needs the assistance, the innovation that can come from small inventors. But that still leaves outside the existing system the individual inventor who through his own ingenuity, imagination and drive comes across a problem, solves, to a large extent, the technical aspects of the problem, but then cannot cope with the next stage of solving the problem. It is with that in mind that I hope soon to be able to put to the Government proposals to effect still further improvements in that regard. 
in reply - It is indeed pleasant for the Government to find the degree of unanimity of support that there has been for this proposal, and the Government in turn of course recognises that the Act which is now being amended has had a degree of success. The features of the Act that required attention can best be spelt out by the figures which I will now give to the House. They will indicate the way in which the Act, as it was beginning to work, was beginning to give increasingly large sums of money to a very small number of very large firms. For example, the sum going to ACI Operations Pty Ltd, a recipient company, went from $269,000 in 1969-70 - I am going to the nearest $1,000 -to $466,000 in 1971-72. Similarly the amount paid to Amalgamated Wireless Australasia Ltd was $285,000 in 1969-70 and jumped to $488,000 in 1971-72. In the case of the Colonial Sugar Refinery Co. Ltd it went from $138,000 in 1969-70 to $353,000 in 1971-72. One could go on giving some other examples. 
As the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  reminded the House, in my second reading speech I drew attention to the fact that, as the scheme was operating at the end of last year, one realised that one-fiftieth of the recipient companies were receiving approximately one-third of the moneys. One can have no quarrel with that generally, except that one does have the thought that perhaps the companies were going to spend that much money on research in any event, and that the money produced by the scheme was not acting as an incentive and that it would have been better to spend the money in a way that would assist smaller companies. As honourable members on both sides of the House have commented, the underlying scheme of the Bill is to distribute the money far wider than has been the case in the past. An amount of $16. 5m was allocated in this Budget for 1973-74 compared with an expenditure of $14m in 1972-73. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will pursue the Government's policy of specification by Act of Parliament of remuneration and allowances paid on an annual basis to various statutory office holders. Honourable members will recall that in 1971 in accordance with the wishes of the Senate the then Minister for Health,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, gave an undertaking that this practice would be followed in the future by the Government of which he was a member. The new Labor Government has followed a similar practice in legislation it has introduced this year dealing with the establishment of the new statutory offices connected with the implementation of its policies. 
As in previous years, Bills establishing new offices have included clauses which allow the prescription of salaries and annual allowances, if any, in regulations until a specified date after which they must be specified in an Act of Parliament. Such provisions apply until the end of this year in respect of the offices in the Schedule to this Bill. Without passage of this Bill there will be no provision by which salary payments may be made after 1 January 1974. Accordingly, all this Bill does in respect of these offices is specify in an Act of Parliament salaries and fees which are already included in regulations. The proposed new section 17 will provide flexibility necessary on occasions to ensure that an Australian Government official who accepts a transfer to a statutory office does not suffer a salary reduction. Honourable members will recall that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  introduced the Remuneration and Allowances Bill in March this year he said: 
The Government believes that machinery should be established for the future regular review of parliamentary salaries. Members are aware that in the past there have been independent committees making recommendations to the Government and governments putting proposals before the Parliament without independent inquiry. There have also been suggestions that parliamentary salaries should be tied automatically to some index. It is this Government's view that a Tribunal should be established in order to put this whole matter on a regular basis with automatic reviews and in respect of member's salaries probably having automatic effect. 
It is the Government's intention that such a Tribunal would deal also with the salaries for First Division officers in the Public Service and statutory office holders. Most groups in the community traditionally have access to arbitration machinery which enables an independent assessment of salary rates and there is much to be said for extending the proposed Tribunal's jurisdiction in this way. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
 in reply - Very briefly, the Government welcomes, for a change, the support of the Australian Country Party. I must reject the remarks which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  made in his contribution to the second reading debate. As has already been stated, the Bill was introduced in the Senate. It was subjected to considerable scrutiny by honourable senators from all parties. If the honourable member for Mackellar reads the Hansard report of the debate in the Senate he will see that a former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  who is a well known and respected lawyer, subjected the Bill to very close examination and put forward some very responsible amendments to the Bill as it had been introduced originally by the Government. The Government readily accepted those amendments and thanked  Senator Greenwood  for his contribution to the debate. We accept that the Bill is in a better form now because of the speeches which were made by all the contributors to the debate in the Senate. 
But the basic situation has to be stated, and it is really this: The honourable member for MacKellar seems to lose his sense of proportion when certain subjects are raised. One can understand it, because they are very emotional subjects. When it comes to the subject of foreign affairs or the question of politics, or when the word 'communism' is uttered fo him, the honourable member seems to go off the bend, so to speak, and I say that with great respect to the honourable gentleman. For example, may I test the weight of one of his criticisms. He said that the list of offences in the Schedule to the Bill was such that it was ridiculous that so many light offences were included and that people could be extradited for these trivial things. He mentioned, I think, an offence against the company law and he mentioned assault occasioning actual bodily harm; someone could assault a policeman, perhaps, or something of that sort. 
My recollection is that the honourable member said that someone could be- 
I have nothing to say. 
I would have greater sympathy for the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  if he were to bring his papers into the House. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Police for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
 One is torn twixt wanting perhaps to thank the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  for introducing this subject - it is an important subject; there undoubtedly is a widespread shortage of goods in the Australian economy at the moment, and no one would deny that - and the urge to follow his example and be political. I will try to resist the urge, but I will yield to it for a moment. We heard at the outset of the speech of the Leader of the Country Party a reference to his real motive in raising this matter of public importance today and we heard him return to it at the end of his speech, namely, a plea to the people of Australia to vote No on the referendum on prices control. Unfortunately for the Leader of the Country Party, the polls as I understand them are strangely against him on that point. The reports that I saw yesterday showed that something like 70 per cent of Australians who were polled in the recent Gallup polls indicated that they will vote Yes on the prices control measure. However, I am not in a betting mood at the moment. 
I return to the central theme of this matter of public importance, namely, the widespread shortage of goods. It is true that there is such a shortage. Why has this occurred? It is because the people are in full employment. Why? Because there is money in the country and because the economy is booming as it has probably rarely boomed before. Let me quote some figures from the last 'Treasury Information Bulletin No. 72' of October 1973. Under the heading 'Secondary Industries' at page 16 there Ls a table which shows that industrial production in virtually all sectors of manufacturing for the recent September quarter was well above the levels of a year ago. This is in the context of the proposition that there is a widespread shortage of goods. Honourable members might think that is a contradiction, but the shortage is real, nevertheless. We are told by 'Treasury Information 
Bulletin' No. 72 that production is well above the level of a year ago when the previous Government was in power. Of the 31 items shown, 29 recorded increases, 15 by more than 20 per cent in this year of a Labor Government. Production has been at an all time record level. After 12 months of a Labor Government the Australian economy is producing more than it has ever produced before. There were particularly large increases in the production of tinplate, plastics, synthetic resins, most consumer durables and electric motors. This is from the Treasury Bulletin, an authentic, objective- 
I will come back to that. Why are there shortages? Let us return to the proposition. We know there are shortages. Previous governments followed policies which allowed the economy to run down. I can be accused of being political in saying that, but it is a fact. We have heard and we should remind ourselves of the word 'stagflation'. Do honourable members remember stagflation? Stagflation was the word associated with the Liberal-Country Party administration in its declining years when inflation ran away but the economy died. Stagflation was the word applied to members of the Opposition in those last 3 or 4 years of their administration when inflation took over but no production took place. That was also the period when money poured into this country from overseas to buy up this country on the cheap. This happened because the Parties opposite had not faced up to the proposition that the Australian dollar was hopelessly undervalued and that the country was over protected through the general tariff. 
I remind honourable members of the issue that arose and was fought out in the Cabinet of the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1971, I think it was, in reference to revaluation. The Liberal Party, recognising the seriousness of the situation in which it found itself, wanted desperately to revalue. That Party knew that revaluation had to take place. It was widely reported and never denied that the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who was then the Treasurer, was urging that revaluation take place. He was not allowed to bring it about because of the rump on which the Liberal Party rested for its support to form a government - the rump being the Country Party - would not let the then Treasurer revalue. The debate or argument went on in this Parliament House behind closed doors for a full week, but the Country Party refused to allow the Liberal Party to revalue the Australian dollar. So, money poured into Australia to buy up the place on the cheap. Foreign takeovers occurred, there was land speculation and so on, and the money poured in. The percentage increase in money in that year rose to about 26 per cent. What is inflation if it is not too many dollars chasing too few goods? 
The former Government followed policies that produced stagflation and almost a failure to increase the productive capacity of the country for about 20 years. It followed policies which encouraged inflation and money to pour in to buy Australia on the cheap. An inflationary time bomb was set to go off early this year, and it did go off this year. It was starting to go off last year. This has been confirmed by every publicist who writes on the subject in Australia, whether it is  Dr Porter  or anyone else including newspapers for the International Monetary Fund. They have all said that gross economic mismanagement by the Liberal-Country Party, particularly over the last 4 or 5 years, produced this time bomb. What did we do? We saw what was happening and we took the monetary policies that are well known. We reduced tariffs by 25 per cent to encourage imports. 
Today we are talking about a shortage of goods. No imports were coming in last year. Money was pouring in to buy up the few Australian goods which were being produced while the Government at that time followed policies encouraging people to sell their goods overseas and not in Australia. The Labor Government reduced tariffs by 25 per cent. Members of the present Opposition would not have had the courage to do so. The Labor Party did it. The Labor Party was said to be the high protection party, but it had the courage to reduce tariffs because it recognised the seriousness of the situation which had been bequeathed or devised to it - depending on whether it is regarded as personal property or real property. The Opposition parties left us with this mess so we took 25 per cent off the tariff. We revalued virtually 3 times.  Dr Porter  estimated that without the Labor Government's economic measures the monetary supply would have grown by 48 per cent in this country this year giving a level of inflation of 20 per cent. 
The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  talks about courage. Has there ever been courage such as has been displayed by this Labor Government in its first year of office? It has had the courage to make monetary policies of this kind, to make tariff reductions of 25 per cent and to revalue the Australian dollar 3 times. At the same time it has been carrying out the policies that it was elected to carry out. It has been increasing public expenditure on education, housing and social welfare. Has there ever been economic management to match that? We have held inflation down to 12 per cent or so when it would have reached 20 per cent if the Opposition Parties had remained in power. 
That is what  Dr Porter  says. Does the honourable member deny what  Dr Porter  said? Would the honourable member for Berowra, in all honesty - I do not know whether he is to follow me in this debate - suggest that if the Liberal-Country Party had remained in power and had inherited this mess, a horror budget such as this country had never ever seen would not have been introduced? It would have been introduced. The Opposition Parties would have tightened up money to such an extent that no one would have had a dollar in his pocket and unemployment would have been created. 
I will recall to honourable members the measures of the previous Government. I refer to the Budget of 1971. The previous Government thought that the economy was going into a boom stage so it put on the  stops,  full brakes, and put people out of work. That is all the previous Government knew.  Mr Gorton  even turned off the fountain in Lake Burley Griffin to indicate how he was going to cure inflation and the boom conditions in Australia. Of course he was completely wrong. The economy was not rising at the time; it was going down. The brakes applied by the then Government brought things to a screaming halt, so much so that in 1972 it had to pour fuel on the fire - kerosene or petrol, whatever we want to call it - to such an extent that although the then Treasurer said he went to the limits of responsibility in that 1972 Budget, every publicist since who has written on the subject has said that he went way beyond the limits of responsibility. It was a most overexpansionary Budget. Of course we know the reasons for that Budget. The previous Government was trying to float itself through an election. That was pretty clear. 
I suppose politicians can understand the need or the fear of a government that has run out of steam and run out of ideas after 23 years. The previous Government tried to save its power structure at any cost. It said, more or less: 'Who cares about tomorrow. If we lose, the Labor Party people inherit the mess. If we get back in, well, people have short memories and something will come 'up somehow'. The previous Government came down with the 1971 Budget, which was completely misjudged and in gross error, and inflated the problem into the situation which we inherited in December of last year and which carried through into January February and succeeding months of this year. 
For one short moment I thought the Leader of the Country Party was going to place some emphasis on the fact that there is a gross shortage of commodities throughout the entire world. People on the Government side recognise that the world has become a very small place. The growth of communications and the growth of multi-national corporations means that decisions can be taken in New York one minute and implemented in Zurich the next; in Berlin one day and Paris the day after; in Sydney- 
The right side of Berlin, if my friend is so sensitive. Decisions can be taken in Sydney one day and Tokyo the day after. So, the upturns and downturns in the trade cycle are far shorter and everything seems to point to this being a developing trend. The recovery which took place in the Australian economy between 1971 and 1972, when nearly 2 per cent of people were unemployed, has been effected in a much shorter period than might have happened 20 years ago. But, we on this side at least take account of these things, whereas the previous Government left us completely defenceless economically because it did not revalue the Australian dollar and did not think of the tariff instrument of economic management in any real sense. We had to revalue the Australian dollar and cut tariffs. 
The question is: What can be done about the situation? The Australian Government is determined to increase production. It has had magnificent success already. I read out the figures, and they bear repeating. Of the 31 items shown in the last Treasury bulletin, 29 recorded increases, with 15 recording increases of more than 20 per cent. Production is up to an all time high. But, because of the excessive amount of liquidity caused by the inflow of foreign capital which the previous Government encouraged through its refusal to do anything about the position, we inherited the situation. 
There are other aspects, of course, on which I should touch in the very short time left to me. Whatever the instruments of economic management available to the Australian Government might be - and there are some - there are many others. This Labor Government seeks to have the power to exercise them in this ever-changing, rapidly-changing world. We seek to give Australia proper restrictive trade practices legislation. Where does the opposition to that legislation come from? It comes from the Liberal Party and the Country Party. We seek to give the Australian Government power over prices and power over incomes and to let the people have a choice on whether we should have these powers. Where does the opposition come from? It comes from the Liberal Party and the Country Party. Yet members of those parties here say that there is a widespread shortage of goods, notwithstanding that more are available now than ever before; but the demand - demand brought about by gross economic mismanagement - measured in money, of course, far exceeds the supply. 
There are some people who talk about a conspiracy of manufacturers and suppliers to withhold goods from the market. I repect that theory. But there is a first cousin to it that perhaps bears some comment. It is this: There are manufacturers who take the view that, seeing the Government's policy to bring about new restrictive trade practices legislation may not be thwarted in this Parliament by the Liberal and Country Parties, it is better to push up prices now by withholding supplies so that if some form of price control is introduced it will be easier to justify a price increase in the long run. That is a first cousin to it that is not without merit at all- 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No, not in drafting in the technical sense. 
(3) Not applicable. 
Legal experts from the United States, at the time of my visit to the United States, were engaged by me to assist my department in formulating proposals for new legislation. 
A United States lawyer,  Mr R.  M. Dietrich, General Counsel to the United States Federal Trade Commission, has assisted in the preparation of instructions for restrictive trade practices legislation.  His  services were made available by the United States Government without charge. The Australian Government met the costs of his fares and living expenses in Australia.  Mr Dietrich,  who was in Canberra for a period of four weeks, worked in association with officers of my Department in the Department's premises. 

 Mr Adrian Parmeter, a United States authority on land rights matters, has given advice to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and to my Department on aboriginal land rights. He was provided with air fares and a fee of $2,200.  Mr Parmeter  was engaged on this work for the Australian Government for a period of three weeks and three days. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) I invite the right honourable member's attention to the answer to a similar Question on Notice (No. 666) directed to the Prime Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are two motor vehicle manufacturers located in Melbourne, GMH and Ford. Both companies must comply with the resale price maintenance provisions of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971. Accordingly they may only recommend retail prices, which I understand are the same in all capital cities. 
Motor vehicle manufacturers' prices to dealers are on an f.o.b. capital city basis. Dealers are then responsible for costs of transportation to their locations. I would expect these costs to be higher where country areas are involved. 
The honourable member will be aware that at present the Australian Government has no direct price control powers except in the Territories and has therefore no power to arrange for a uniform price to be charged for motor vehicles throughout Australia. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The future role of the Commonwealth Police Force in the guarding of certain Department of Supply establishments, including the Ordnance Factory, Bendigo, has been under consideration for some time. No decision on the withdrawal of Commonwealth Police cover from these establishments has yet been taken. The consideration being given to the matter does not stem from the Budget. 
Eight families of the Commonwealth Police members could be affected by the withdrawal of Commonwealth Police cover from the Ordnance Factory, Bendigo. Seven of these families reside in the BendigoLonglea area and one member maintains his home at Little River (near Geelong). It is a condition of employment in the Commonwealth Police Force that, although appointment, promotion or transfer may be to a specified locality, members may be required to transfer to any part of the Commonwealth. All members are informed of this requirement prior to appointment to the Force. However, before any transfers are made, consideration is given to the position of each member including his family. 
Should it be decided to withdraw Commonwealth Police cover from the Ordnance Factory, Bendigo, no member would be retrenched. The members concerned would be transferred to other localities depending on vacancies that exist at the time. Such transfer would be at Commonwealth expense and the members would be entitled to a living allowance at the new locality until such time as they are able to obtain suitable accommodation. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The previous Minister for Secondary Industry,  Dr Cairns,  announced on 30 July 1973 that the Government was considering measures to assist Australian invention and innovation. 
I am hopeful that I will soon be in a position to announce the scope and nature of the policy initiatives the Government will be taking. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973 my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular Interdepartmental Committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information (Hansard, page 1317). 
I also refer the right honourable gentleman to the Prime Minister's answer to his further Question Without Notice on this subject on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answers to Question Nos 964 and 1057 (Hansard 27 September 1973, page 1714 and 24 October 1973. page 2665). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. I have received representations from the Director of the Authority, and from several members and senators on this subject. 
No naval vessels are held by the Department of Supply for disposal at present. However, when vessels do become available requests made by the Western Australian Tourist Development Authority and similar bodies will be given full consideration. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The firm of F. J. Stephens accepted a contract from the Department of Supply in September 1972 for the supply of canvas field packs. This was a firm price contract - that is, not subject to price variation on the ground of changes in wages or material costs, etc. - and is the eighth contract undertaken by the firm on that basis since 1969, in accordance with tenders submitted by the firm. 
In this case, after commencing work, the firm sought a price increase because of a rise in staff wages. In accordance with normal contracting practice the increase was refused. 
On 17 September 1973  Mr Stephens  formally requested cancellation of the contract. He proposed partial completion of the items required. 
It is understood that the firm has recently retrenched some 27 female employees, but it is not known whether all of these retrenchments were due to the firm's difficulty over this one contract. 
In normal circumstances cancellation of a contract at the request of the contractor would attract certain financial penalties; in this case I have agreed to waive any such penalties and to accept final delivery on completion of any work currently in progress. Due to reduced Defence requirements the outstanding balance will not be re-ordered, and I am unable to offer any solution to the firm's problems, other than that already agreed - cancellation of the contract without penalty. 
Staff of Leader and Deputy Leader of the Opposition: Overtime and Allowances  (Question No. 1412) 
A great deal of enthusiastic interest has been shown in this project. The Government has committed itself to the manufacture of 70 Nomad aircraft, 20 of which are, of course, already committed. There have been one or two difficulties following the unfortunate accident that occurred with one of the 2 prototypes that were built originally. Certain re-design work associated with the undercarriage has taken place and this will improve the performance of the aircraft by way of a general lightening of its overall load. The general answer to the question is that the first prototype will be flying again in, I hope, February 1974 and it is hoped that the first completed Nomad will come off the line in about May. It has already been accepted by  Mr Brabham.  It is hoped that in 1975 these aircraft will be coming off the line at the rate of about four a month. The sales organisation requires that distributors be selected throughout the world. Two have been selected for this part of the world. They are Nationwide Air Services Pty Ltd, I think, and Hawker de Havilland of Australia Pty Ltd. Others have to be selected. Some of the inquiries in respect of this aircraft relate to the licensing of manufacture overseas and other inquiries direct attention to the problem of offset work being done overseas. Both of these aspects are being investigated and studied but. of course, they must be seen in the context that we wish to exercise the manufacturing capacity in Australia so far as is possible. 
I move: 
That  the Bill be now  read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the appointment of more than one resident judge of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory. The present position is that the Court consists of one judge, whom I shall call the resident judge, appointed under sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Act, and a number of additional judges, appointed under sub-section (2) of section 7, whose qualification is that they are to be judges of another court created by this Parliament. There are at present 7 additional judges all of whom are  Judges  of the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
It has become apparent to the Government that the volume of business in the Supreme Court, which sits both in Darwin and in Alice Springs, requires the services of a second resident judge as a matter of urgency. The present system, dependent as it is upon the availability of the additional judges to sit in the Territory from time to time, has proved unsatisfactory and inadequate to cope with the volume of work. The Bill therefore amends section 7 (1) to permit the appointment of more than one resident judge. The Bill as transmitted from the Senate limits the number of judges to three and it will thus be possible to make future appointments from time to time as required. 
Clause 6 of the Bill amends section 9 of the principal Act relating to Judges' salary and allowances so as to delete the reference to a specific sum. This amendment is consequential upon section 13 of the Remuneration and Allowances Act 1973 which fixes Judges' salaries and allowances notwithstanding anything in any other Act. The remaining amendments made by the Bill are consequential upon the matters I have already mentioned or consist of drafting improvements. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Edwards)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That  the  Bill  be now read a second time.  The purpose of this Bill is to establish a Law Reform Commission, to enable the task of law reform in Australia to 'be tackled on a national scale. The Government is concerned to see that the system of law under which people live is responsible to the social needs of our time. The rules which govern the relationship of persons with each other and with the Government should reflect current values and philosophies. This concern is reflected in the importance the Government attaches to law reform. 
The Bill is also an expression of the Government's view that, except where local circumstances justify different treatment, people wherever they live in Australia should be subject to the same law. For this reason, many questions of law reform must be dealt with on a national basis. The reform of the laws regarding commercial transactions, defamation and evidence, the codes of procedures before the courts and the criminal law are examples. There is no logical or necessary reason why these laws should vary from one place to another in Australia, as they do, or why a person should be subject to different rules of law simply because he crosses a State or Territory boundary. The situation is offensive in its absurdity. 
The existence of differences in the law between the States and Territories means that the rules of private international law, which were intended to regulate legal relationships affected by differences in law between different countries, apply in Australia as though the States and Territories were foreign countries. This is not widely appreciated. Conflict of laws or private international law, as it is sometimes called, consists of those rules of law which are applied to cases involving private individuals where the facts involve more than one State or territorial unit. In most cases this State or territorial unit is a member of the international family of nations. Each State or country has its own rules of private international law enshrined in its own case or legislation or code. In Australia's case New South Wales, for example, may resolve a particular legal issue in a manner significantly different from that in which a comparable question would be resolved in England, California, France or the State of Victoria. As I have said, for most purposes each Australian State has an interstate as well as an international level. These rules of private international law cannot be removed altogether while separate State jurisdictions remain but their impact can be lessened by promoting uniformity in the law throughout Australia. Uniformity will mean that it does not matter which State law is to govern a contract for the sale of goods. It will mean that a person's entitlement to workers compensation will not depend on which State he is employed in at the relevant time. It will mean that the right of a person who has been defamed to recover damages will not vary according to the place in which the defamatory matter is published, so that what is published in Sydney in a newspaper with a national circulation may be actionable, but the same story published in the same newspaper in Melbourne may not be actionable. 
One could multiply examples of the manner in which differences in the law produce different results according to which State or Territory law is applicable. What I have said should be ample to demonstrate an urgent need to tackle the task of law reform on a national basis. As long ago as 1957 no less an authority than the then Chief Justice of Australia,  Sir Owen  Dixon, suggested that this Australian Parliament should establish a national law reform body. At the Tenth Legal Convention of the Law Council of Australia held in Melborne that year the Chief Justice said: 
Is it not possible to place law reform on an Australia wide basis? Might not there be a Federal Committee for Law Reform? In spite of the absence of constitutional power to enact the reforms as law, it is open to the Federal legislature to authorise the formation of a body for inquiry into law reform. Such a body might prepare and promulgate draft reforms which would merely await adoption. 
In all or nearly all matters of private law there is no geographical reason why the law should be different in any part of Australia. Local conditions have nothing to do with it. Is it not unworthy of Australia as a nation to have varying laws affecting the relations between man and man? Is it beyond us to make some attempt to obtain a uniform system of private law in Australia? 
The Standing Committee of Attorneys-General has not been conspicuous for its success in promoting law reform on a uniform basis. While it is a very useful instrument for exchanging views between law Ministers, it is clearly not equipped to deal with law reform on a comprehensive and uniform basis. This cannot be achieved unless an expert body, working fulltime on the task and removed from the pressures of day to day politics, is established for this purpose. 
Each State as well as the Australian Capital Territory has its own law reform body. The existence of these separate bodies must inevitably cause a duplication and overlapping of effort. The Law Reform Commission would not replace the State bodies, although it will be able to take over the work now done by the Australian Capital Territory Law Reform Commission. The establishment of a national law reform body would provide an agency for the exchange of information between State law reform agencies and with law reform agencies in other countries. I would hope that when the Law Reform Commission is established it would not be bound to English precedent but will have regard to substantial accomplishments in many areas of law reform in other countries and, in particular, in the United States of America. 
So far I have referred to the need for laws to be uniform as between the several jurisdictions existing within Australia. There are, however, major areas of law within the competence of the Australian Parliament in respect of which an Australian Law Reform Commission will play an essential role in the development and reform of the law instead of, as in the past, reliance being placed on ad hoc committees without adequate resources for research and the examination of submissions from interest groups. It should not be overlooked that in respect of the Territories of Australia the Australian Parliament has undoubted plenary legislative power, and the Territories are coming to represent an increasingly significant proportion of the Australian population. Within the next 10 years it is expected that the population of the Australian Capital Territory will outstrip that of Tasmania. The population of Darwin is the fastest growing of any Australian city. The Australian Parliament, therefore, has a very direct and substantial interest in reform in the area of private law, quite apart from the question of uniformity of law between the Territories and the States. 
The Bill therefore provides that the functions of the Law Reform Commission will include the reform of laws that are within the competence of this Parliament to amend - whether they be laws which operate throughout Australia or Territory laws - and also the consideration of proposals for uniformity between the laws of Territories and the States. Where the recommendations of the Commission cannot be given effect throughout Australia by this Parliament, they can be given effect in the Territories by this Parliament or by the legislatures of those States which see fit to adopt them. I should say that I regard this as a not completely satisfactory solution to this great Australian problem. It is, however, the best that can be produced at this stage given the constitutional limitations and divisions that exist in Australia. 
Having explained the broad purpose of the Bill and the role of the proposed Law Reform Commission, there are only one or two features of the Bill to which I need to draw attention at this stage. The functions of the Commission are set out in clause 6. They are to review or consider proposals for the making, consolidation or repeal of laws to which this Act applies, and tq consider proposals for uniformity between laws of the Territories and the States. The expression 'laws to which this Act applies' is defined in clause 3. It includes all laws, whether statute law or the rules of common law or of equity, that this Parliament has power to amend or repeal. Thus it includes, for example, laws made by this Parliament and ordinances and other laws in force in a Territory. 
In reviewing laws to which this Act applies, the Commission will have in view systematic development and reform of the law, including, in particular the modernisation of the law, the elimination of defects in the law, the simplification of the law, and the adoption of new or more effective methods for the administration of the law and the dispensation of justice. Clause 7 requires the Commission to pay particular regard to the need for preservation of individual rights and liberties as far as practicable when proposals for reform are being developed. 
The Commission will exercise these functions in pursuance of references made to it by the Attorney-General and the Bill, in clause 6, recognises that it is open to the Commission to suggest matters that should be referred to it for investigation. Under clause 10 the Commission may make, or be asked by the Attorney-General to make, an interim report, and clause 35 requires the Attorney-General to lay a report by the Commission before each House of Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House from the time of receipt of the report. Clause 9 of the Bill would ensure that the Commission is accountable to the Parliament which creates it. 
The composition of the Commission is governed by clause 12, which provides that the Commission is to consist of a  chairman  and at least 4 other members, each of whom must be either a judge of a federal court or a supreme court of a State or Territory, a practitioner of such a court of at least 5 years standing, an experienced academic lawyer or a person otherwise specially qualified or experienced. The members are appointed by the Governor-General and may be full-time or part-time members. The  Chairman  must be a full-time member. 
Sitting suspended from 1.5 to 2.15 p.m. 
The Bill provides in clause 12, sub-clause (8), for a member of the Commission being a legal practitioner of a particular Territory, to be designated by his instrument of appointment as a member in respect of that Territory, and for him to take part in the proceedings of the Commission in respect of such references only as the  Chairman  determines to be of special significance in relation to that Territory. This will enable lawyers with special experience in the law of a particular Territory to bring the benefit of their experience to the consideration of reforms of the law of that Territory. 
Related to this provision is a provision in clause 27 that the  Chairman  may constitute a division of the Commission consisting of not less than 3 members with all the powers of the Commission for the purpose of a particular reference. When the reference relates to the law of a particular Territory, the member designated a member in respect of that Territory would normally be one of the members constituting the division. Thus it would be possible for 2 divisions of the Commission to be working on 2 different references concurrently - one, perhaps, relating to a limited question of Territory law and the other of wider significance. Or a reference on a topic of importance to the whole of Australia, determined by the  Chairman  to be of special significance to each Territory, might be dealt with by the Commission as a whole. 
Provision is made in clause 23 for the engagement as a consultant to the Commission of any person having qualifications and experience relevant to a particular matter referred to the Commission. The Commission is to be an independent statutory corporation with power, subject to appropriate controls by the Treasurer and the Attorney-General, to submit its own estimates, operate its own bank account and engage its own staff. The provisions relating to the corporate status of the Commission are in clause 11, the appointment of staff in clause 22 and the finances of the Commission in Part V. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I can say to the honourable member that I have seen the newspaper publicity to which the refers. It draws attention to the interest shown by overseas interests - in particular, Japanese interests, I understand - in the resources of the Pilbara region. Some little time ago arrangements were made for me to go to South Australia and Western Australia tomorrow - I hope to leave tomorrow night - to confer with the appropriate Ministers in South Australia and Western Australia who have responsibilities for secondary industry and industry generally on matters of a like kind to what is happening in the Pilbara. I certainly will be having discussions with them. Following that, I hope to visit the Pilbara over the weekend with members of my Department. We will make a thorough study, insofar as that can be done in a couple of days, of the area. I understand that at the same time Ministers of the Government of Western Australia will be present, and I do hope that profit will come from it. As far as the present stage of the feasibility study is concerned, I have not any up to date knowledge of that. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members are probably aware that on 9 October this year my colleague the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  made a statement in the Senate announcing that the Government had decided to publish in bound volumes a consolidation of the Acts passed by the Australian Parliament as in force at the end of this year. The Attorney-General pointed out that the reprint of the Acts is a massive task, and referred to the fact that when the last consolidation of Australian Acts took place, which was as long ago as 1950, the publication ran to 5 volumes of Acts and an additional volume of tables, indexes and materials of that kind. The Attorney-General said that the amount of legislation since that time has been such that it is estimated that, by the end of this year, the Acts of the Australian Parliament will run to some 11,000 pages, which is more than twice the size of the previous consolidation, and that the new consolidation will probably extend to some 11 volumes each of about 1,000 pages. 
Honourable members are probably also aware that the Government Printer is using new Photon equipment for the printing of Hansard. This equipment will also be used in connection with the printing of the consolidation and should be of tremendous help. The Attorney-General is hopeful that, by using this equipment, the first volume of the consolidation will be published in June 1974 and each subsequent volume will be published at monthly intervals. The aim is to complete the project by June 1975. As the AttorneyGeneral has said, this time-table is an immense improvement on the last consolidation, which took some 5 years to complete, notwithstanding that that publication was only half the size of the one now proposed. As already mentioned, the last consolidation took place a long time ago - in 1950. Notwithstanding the fact that the more important Australian Acts are regularly published in pamphlet form, this new consolidation is long overdue and will be of tremendous assistance to persons, both lawyers and others, in finding provisions in Australian Acts. It is well known to anyone who practises law that one of the greatest troubles that any lawyer faces is finding his law. If he has to spend a lot of unnecessary time finding it, it is expensive and it is reflected in the expense which inevitably, unfortunately, is passed on to the client or the consumer. This consolidation of Acts will help in large measure to overcome that problem and make the law easier to find. The year 1950 is indeed a long time ago.. 
An important preliminary step in the program of publishing the consolidation is the enactment of the Bill now before the House. To repeat the rather apt phrase that was used in 1934 by the then Attorney-General when introducing the Statute Law Revision Bill of that year, and used again in 1950 by the Attorney-General of that time, the main object of the Bill is 'merely to cut away the dead wood on the statute-book'. Although this is its main object, the Bill goes further than the repeal of obsolete Acts and provisions in Acts. It also corrects errors and up dates some matters of form. In short, the Bill will clear the way for the consolidation, and will substantially reduce its volume and improve its form. I would like to assure honourable members that the Bill will not effect any change in substance in the law. Having in mind the object of the Bill, particularly when that object is considered as clearing the way for the publication of the consolidation, I am sure that the Bill will be supported by both sides of the House and be given a speedy passage. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following the general tariff cuts announced on 18 July, tariff rates against certain products from New Zealand including certain plastic products, were reduced by more than one-quarter of the rates previously operating in order to maintain margins of preference existing at the time of the cuts. This was in conformity with the Government's undertakings and commitments in relation to New Zealand. 2 and 4. In the event of any firm or company being seriously affected by imports from any source, including New Zealand, the Tribunal established by the Government is authorised to recommend appropriate remedial action. The procedures to be followed by a firm or company affected are outlined in the Government's statement of 18 July. 
Total imports of plastic materials and products in 1972/73 amounted to $127 million of which New Zealand supplied$ 1.8 million, or 1.4 per cent of total imports. 
The Tariff Board's Report on Plastic Products was signed on 2 April 1971. The reference was fowarded to the Tariff Board on 12 October 1965. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to parts (1) and (2) of the question. 
The table below shows the quantity and value of imports classified under statistical items 053.30.01 Marmalades' and 053.30.09. 'Jams, fruit jellies, fruit puree and pastes', in the Australian Import Commodity Classification, for the years ended 30 June 1970 to 1973 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as fallows: 
It is possible that some importers and retailers will not reduce their prices by the full amount required to give effect to the tariff reductions. The Government will however look to the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices and the Prices Justification Tribunal to expose those who add extravagant margins to the prices of imported goods, or who fail to pass on savings resulting from the tariff reductions. 
In making the decision to reduce tariffs the Government was conscious of the urgent need to take major steps to deal with inflation by increasing competition and stimulating in the short term a sufficiently large inflow of additional imports to meet pressing demand. An increase in the supply of goods, particularly consumer goods, must cause pressure against price increases and thereby assist in curbing inflation. There is no single cure for inflation. The Government's action in reducing tariffs should be viewed as part of a complex of measures intended to have an overall beneficial effect for the great majority of Australians. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information sought by the honourable member relates generally to the gazettal, pursuant to section 310  of  the Bankruptcy Act 1966-1970, of discharges from bankruptcy by the operation of section 149 of that Act which have occurred since 4 March 1971. 
Section 149 provides for the discharge by operation of law upon the expiration of the times fixed by that section of each person who immediately before 4 March 1968 was an undischarged bankrupt or who might thereafter become a bankrupt. The operation of section 149 is subject to certain exceptions in that it does not have the effect of discharging: persons who are no longer living at the relevant date; persons who are undischarged from an earlier bankruptcy at the relevant date; persons who have been discharged or whose bankruptcy has been annulled by an order of the Court made prior to the relevant date; persons in respect of whose discharge pursuant to section 149 an objection has been entered by the trustee, the Registrar or a creditor and not withdrawn. 
The identification of all the persons falling within the first and second of the abovementioned exceptions is virtually impossible and it is therefore difficult to state with accuracy the number of persons who have been discharged by the operation of section 149 on or after 4 March 1971, the date upon which discharges pursuant to that section first occurred. It is estimated that on that date more than 25,000 persons, including persons who became bankrupt under State laws relating to bankruptcy and insolvency, may have been so discharged and that since that date a further 4,000 persons have been so discharged. 
The considerable volume of work involved in the identification of the large number  of  persons who have been discharged by the operation  of  section  149  because of the exceptions mentioned above, has limited the gazettal of all the discharges which have occurred. 
The Attorney-General is presently considering, in conjunction with a number of proposals for amendments to other sections of the Bankruptcy Act, appropriate amendments to sections 149 and 310 (3) (a) to overcome the practical difficulties which these sections have revealed in complying with the requirement to gazette discbarges by the operation of section 149. 
In the meantime, some additional Registry staff have been provided and a program has been commenced in some, but not all, Bankruptcy Districts to gazette discharges pursuant to section 149. So far as can be ascertained, in every case where a formal request has been received by a Registrar for the gazettal of a discharge by the operation of section 149, the discharge has been gazetted. 
The following additional information is supplied in answer to the honourable member's questions: 
The precise number of persons is not ascertainable for the reasons mentioned above but it is estimated that approximately 1,800 persons ' were so discharged. 
Of those discharges which have been gazetted, the delay has varied between 1 month and 13 months. 
The number is unknown but probably exceeds 27,500. The first of these discharges became operative on 4 March 1971. 
Appropriate amendments of the Bankruptcy Act to overcome the practical difficulties resulting from the operation of section 149 are under consideration. 
 in reply - Very briefly, the Government is naturally pleased that the Opposition approves and supports this measure. It is a measure extending into the legislation the provisions that require salaries and remunerations to be paid, and the principle that was described by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  is a proper one - that measures of this sort should find expression in an enactment of this Parliament. The only other point I would like to make is that the fragmentation - the division - that exists in the present salary and remuneration system or structure throughout Australia is to be regretted. There is no point laying blame here for what contributed to the situation but the Government is very much aware of it and indeed the Remuneration Tribunal Bill that went through this House the other day is a significant step towards the solving of that particular problem. As to the other remarks made by the right honourable gentleman dealing with parliamentary officers, of course those views are shared by all members of this House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply - Briefly in response to the remarks of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  I can say that the Government is very pleased to be able to introduce this measure because practitioners know that the job involved - or the work involved - in finding the law and wading through those statutes is unnecessarily cumbersome and involved. The last consolidation was completed in 1950 - 23 years ago. Volumes containing all the laws passed since that time have to be perused, studied and gone through if one wants to have any degree of assurance about what the law is. The annual consolidations just do not make up for the defect. I think we are a long way from the ideals that were expressed by thinkers in the 18th century. It was hoped at that time that people would be able to write down their law in some simple, single form so that ordinary laymen not skilled or learned in the law would be able to find where it was and understand it. Society has moved a long way from that innocent view on what could be done. But this measure is a step in that direction. 
We all know that if lawyers have to spend hours looking for their law and trying to find out where it is, with the accompanying uncertainty that they might miss something, that is reflected in uncertainty in the judicial process, the decisions of judges and juries, and of course in the cost that ultimately is passed on to the consumer, the client. Anything that can simplify the finding of the law improves the situation. We are very happy to be able to introduce this measure at this time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 in reply - In the short time left, let me say just a few words. I do not think the Government underestimates the magnitude of the problem. Whereas previous governments may have been deterred by the magnitude of the problem, this Government is not; it is determined to atempt to solve it. I recall the absurdity, in my view, of the different sets of laws that exist throughout Australia. In the Australian Capital Territory for example, we had one set of laws dealing with negligence and contributory negligence as they relate to motor cars, and it is not long ago that in New South Wales there was quite a different test. The measure of whether a man received damages or not depended upon whether the accident took place on this side of the Australian Capital Territory-New South Wales border or on the other side of that border. Even the question of where a person sued - which court was available to him - depended upon artificial lines of distinction of that sort. 
The measure in some sense can be put down to an interest by lawyers in lawyers' law, but it goes far beyond that. Differences exist throughout the country in the laws relating to hire purchase, bills of sale, credit generally, corporations, defamation - as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  chose to mention - traffic and crime. They are all different or likely to be different throughout Australia. It is a feature of our federal system. I think we pay a terrible price for it. The way in which it can be overcome is not easy; we appreciate that. The whole concept that the States of Australia and the Territories should be regarded as though they were France against Germany or the United States against the Argentine seems to me to be offensive in its absurdity; but we are stuck with it. The lawyers do their best to try to make it work, but it is an expensive and inefficient way of applying the legal solution to man's social problems. The Law Reform Commission will be at least an attempt, a beginning, to rationalise laws by legislation, where that is possible, or by persuasion, where it can be done only in that way. We commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I ask for leave to move together the amendments standing in my name which have already been circulated. 

 - Mr Speaker, I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the Australian Book Sellers Association recommends that its members sell British books at prices listed in a Schedule of Prices. The Schedule shows prices invoiced by the British publishers and the recommended Australian prices. Although book sellers are not obliged to charge the recommended price, it is understood that in most cases they do. It is not known how the British publishers determine the invoiced prices. Some British publishers have Australian branch offices or wholly-owned subsidiary companies. It may be that in these cases the British publisher determines the price at which his books are sold in Australia, but I have no definite information to this effect. 
(2) 
Hardcover copies of Elaine Morgan's book 'The Descent of Woman' are available from Australian booksellers; I understand the recommended retail price is $7.30 per copy. 
I have no information as to whether the book is available in Noumea and Djakarta. 
I am informed that a paperback edition of the book is not available in Australia. The local agent of the British publisher of the hardcover edition has said that no advice has reached him that a paperback edition is available. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The Government Aircraft Factories have received thirteen firm orders for Nomad aircraft. The Australian Army has ordered eleven aircraft and J. Brabham Aviation Pty Ltd and Nationwide Air Services Pty Ltd have each ordered one aircraft. In addition the Minister for Defence made public during his visit to Indonesia in April this year that Australia would supply four aircraft to Indonesia as part of the Defence Aid Program. Worldwide marketing efforts are continuing and distributorships are progressively being awarded. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No central records are kept of the value of these purchases. Period contracts arranged for the various types of petroleum products are used by ordering officers in Australian Government departments and most Australian Government instrumentalities throughout Australia. It would be an extremely lengthy process to obtain and consolidate details from all purchasing sources in order to produce a total of actual purchases. 
An assessment of the value of usage has, however, been derived from the estimated quantities adopted in letting period contracts, together with the recorded costs of purchases under separate contracts. 
The concept of 'Australian-owned and controlled' companies is one of some complexity. 
The following figures, in response to parts (a) and (b) of the question are based on simple majority ownership of the firms concerned: 
Part (a) - Australian-owned companies - $5. 3m. 
Part (b) - Other companies- $23.2m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Supply disposes of surplus Australian Government owned goods by either public auction or tender. The auctions and tenders are widely advertised and any person or organisation wishing to do so may hid for the lots offered. Before goods are committed to auction or put out to tender, the requirements of any Australian or State Government department or instrumentality are first met and in appropriate cases, consideration is also given to requests from charitable and other community type organisations. 
Surplus Australian Government owned goods in Papua New Guinea, including equipment from the Services, are not normally returned to Australia for disposal. Only valuable equipment required for further use in Australia is brought back. Items foi disposal in Papua New Guinea are first used to satisfy local government or institutional requirements with the balance being sold either by public tender or auction. As in Australia, any person or organisation may bid for the available items. 
Australian Council for the Arts (Question No. 991) 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. Constable Sandeman has been on sick leave with full pay since 15 November 1972. Were he to remain in the Northern Territory Police Force, every consideration would be given to advancing him to positions in the Force suited to his disabilities, ft would seem that his disabilities are such as to preclude him from performing the normal duties of a policeman, and to that extent his opportunities for promotion must be affected. He has, for this reason, expressed a desire to be retired from the Force and to undergo a course of re-training for another occupation. Arrangements have been made for his medical examination in connection with his wish to be retired and for re-training for an occupation of his choice. Upon retirement, he would, of course, be entitled to the payment of compensation in respect of his disabilities. Constable Sandeman has expressed his appreciation of the arrangements made on his behalf. 
1 have directed that the matter should be taken up as soon as his injuries have become stabilised and an assessment made of his permanent disabilities. Upon retirement from the Force, Constable Sandeman will, of course, receive a pension and periodic payments of compensation. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
From an examination of the functions of the Branch which consisted of three persons, it seemed clear to me that certain of its activities amounted to political surveillance and were therefore incompatible with the democratic principles of this country. 
In my view, it is not a proper function of a police force to engage in surveillance of public or private affairs for political or industrial purposes. But there is scope in the Northern Territory for officers experienced in legitimate law enforcement work. 
I received a telegram from the Aboriginal Development Foundation and Northern Territory Council for Aboriginal Rights complaining that two officers of the Special Branch of the Northern Territory Police Force had attended a meeting of the Bagot Settlement, Darwin. This caused me to examine the functions of the Branch. 
The Prime Minister announced on 16 October 1973 that consideration is being given to the creation of a law enforcement authority bringing together under one organisation the work of law enforcement currently performed by the Commonwealth Police, the A.C.T. Police, the N.T. Police and the law enforcement units with the Department of Customs and Excise. It is planned that within the authority there will be a division appropriate to the Northern Territory. In examining this matter a review is being made of the branches of the existing Police Forces. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information on comparative prices in Australia and the United States of America for U.S. produced parts for tractors is not readily available. Representations have however recently been received alleging the existence of price differentials of the order referred to. Copies of these representations* will be forwarded to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices and the Prices Justification Tribunal for information and action as appropriate. 
See  (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes; my attention has been drawn to statements made by opposition members in the State Parliament of Western Australia, expressing dissatisfaction with the level of industry being attracted to that State. 
The Australian Government's policy on ownership and control of Australian industries and resources was set out by the Prime Minister at the AustraliaJapan Ministerial Committee Meeting held in Tokyo in October this year. The Prime Minister tabled his statement in the House on 7 November. To assist in the implementation of this policy, legislation was introduced recently to expand and strengthen the Australian Industry Development Corporation by making Australian ownership and control a primary function alongside the development of Australian industry. This legislation has been referred by the Senate to the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control which is required to report to the Senate by 12 March 1974. The Honourable Member will also be aware of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act, under which any proposed take-over of shares in an Australian Company by overseas interests is examinable by the Government. Similarly,, under policy measures, proposals for the take-over of assets of Australian companies are also examinable. These measures, of course, apply equally to Western Australian industry as to industry in any other State or Territory. 
and (4) I am not in a position to provide the details requested. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
(a) The area is part of the State of Western Australia. 
Persons residing in the area are residents of Western Australia. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no system as such, but there is provision for special consideration to be given to requests from organisations seeking to obtain items of historical significance. Each case is considered on its merits. In addition, selected items are offered to the Australian War Memorial. The Department of Supply also maintains records of items required by State museums and other non-commercial organisations, and when these items become available for disposal their sale is negotiated at mutually acceptable prices. 
The decision to make a gift of Castlemaine to the Maritime Trust of Australia was taken in the light of the aim of the Trust to establish a Maritime Museum to preserve and exhibit items of historical interest on ships and the sea. Castlemaine was built by the Melbourne Harbour Trust at Williamstown, and launched in 1941 by Dame Pattie Menzies. The ship is one of the last remaining of the 60 corvettes built in Australia in World War II and named after local cities and towns. The Government considered it appropriate that the Castlemaine should be included in the proposed Museum. 
It is not Department of Supply practice to release information on unsuccessful commercial tenders. However, in addition to several commercial tenderers there were two other community-type organisations interested in the Castlemaine: these were the Grays Point Sea Scouts, N.S.W., and the Western Australian Tourist Development Authority. 
While again there is no established system, items are provided from time to time to charitable and other organisations for relief or emergency purposes. These items include blankets, clothing and cooking utensils. In such cases known requirements are dealt with before public tenders are invited. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The officer concerned is still in the employ of the Organization. The supply of material about individual citizens to be used in the media of which this case was an example was wholly unwarranted and outside the functions of A.S.I.O. The DirectorGeneral of Security has informed me that some time after he assumed office, he discontinued the practice of giving background briefs to journalists. 
I am familiar with some of the newspaper publicity that has been given to the so-called jumbo steel plant which has been talked about as being appropriate for Western Australia. Of course I cannot say that I have read all the newspaper publicity dealing with it. The matter first came to my attention when I saw a copy of a letter written by the Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Tonkin,  to the Prime Minister urging full support for the proposition and drawing attention to the fact that from the Western Australian point of view there was advantage in it because it would create diversity of employment opportunities in and capital for Western Australia. In that context there were discussions between representatives of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and officers of the Department of Secondary Industry late last year and early this year. There has been correspondence on the matter. 
I recently wrote to the General Manager of BHP,  Mr McNeill,  and although it is inappropriate to make public all the contents of that letter at this stage the general tenor of it was that the Government welcomed the initative taken by BHP and its Mt Newman partners in regard to the establishment of a steel plant of this kind in Australia, particularly one of this magnitude, and that the Government recognises that the establishment of such a plant could bring important benefits to Australia and Western Australia in particular. The Government hopes that the feasibility study that BHP has put forward as a possibility, as a probability, as something that it is interested in, will proceed. Obviously there are other matters that are the subject of consideration, such as a variable deposit scheme and the tax issue, which obviously is involved because this is a proposition, as I understand it, whereby a consortium with a high element of overseas ownership and control would become involved on a take and pay basis. There is also the question of exchange control. But generally the Government welcomes the initiative and we hope that BHP will initiate the study that has been talked about. 
I will consult the Attorney-General on the matter. I only represent him in this place. It seems to me, however, that what the honourable member asks would be a most unusual course to follow. 
I do not know that it is. The world is full of unusual cases. Perhaps it is appropriate for me to say that I have read the newspaper reports concerned with the subject matter that is being considered by the House at this stage. I have had discussions with the lawyer who acted for  Mr McLeod.  He rang me last night. I did not ring him. He is a constituent of mine. 
I was interested, but as anyone here who knows of the law will agree, it would be completely improper for me to disclose what was said by that gentleman to me because a degree of professional privilege attaches to a brief of that sort. I leave it on that basis here, but certainly I will consult the Attorney-General on the matter and ascertain his views. 
One always listens with great attention to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  He is a good friend of every member of this House. I apologise to him for the interjection I made early in his speech when I said: You can do better, Jim'. I listened intently, waiting for a contribution on what is the defect in the Australian constitutional law today that this measure is trying to overcome, and I heard not one useful suggestion put forward by him. That is what I had in mind when, perhaps unfortunately, I said: 'You can do better, Jim'. There is a saying attributed to the iron chancellor from Prussia, Bismarck. When he was first thinking of going into politics he sought guidance from someone and took speaking lessons. He reported back to his tutor in a little time that he was making considerable progress; he could now speak for 20 minutes and say nothing. I think honourable members might well reflect on that. I suggest that that is really what the honourable member for Moreton was measuring up to. I say that with great respect to him because we are good friends. 
This measure seeks to introduce some flexibility into Australian constitutional reform. We all know what federalism is. I do not seek to canvass the merits and the arguments for and against it here tonight. It would be improper to do so. But some of the futures which the Constitution has and which are accepted by any writer on the subject are rigidity and legalism, and no one familiar with the Australian constitutional system would deny that these are the most outstanding features of our Constitution. Whether it works for the States or the Commonwealth, or whether it reflects centralism, federalism or regionalism, one thing is sure: It is rigid and very difficult to change. It was made seventy or eighty years ago to suit conditions of a different age. It is legalistic; it is in the hands of lawyers. 
This measure seeks to enable negotiating positions to be taken between the juristic people or sections of Australia, the States and the Australian Government to enter into agreements. It honours a promise made by the Prime Minister at the Constitutional Convention that convened in Sydney in September last year. The honourable member for Moreton talked of haste and things being done in 24 hours, but I remind him of the meeting in Kirribilli House which sparked it all off. He was not there and neither was I, but the newspapers were full of it. With the exception of one State Premier, the Premier of Queensland, who out of pique or something or other refused to come, every State Premier went to Kirribilli House with the Prime Minister and they came to an agreement which was written up at the time. I do not say that I have all the newspaper reports about it here but I have some of them. This measure is honouring an undertaking that the Prime Minister gave at the opening session of the Constitutional Convention in September last year. It is of interest to go through some of the newspapers I have. The 'Advertiser' headlined it 'Fire Real Initiative from the Convention'. A 'Canberra Times' headline stated: 'Agreement by States on Change'. John Jost wrote in the 'Australian': 'Premiers and PM Find a Way Out'. The 'Canberra Times' again said 'Exchange on Powers'. So they go on. There was an agreement between the Premiers and it was followed up. If one is looking to see where goodwill comes from, one will find that it comes from this Government. 
On 12 September 1973 the Prime Minister wrote to the Premiers following that undertaking, advising that the Attorney-General would be in touch with the State Attorneys as to arrangements for draftsmen to consider the Bill. On 2 November the first draft was sent to the State draftsmen by the First Parliamentary Counsel. On 19 November - we are now in March - the draft Bill was considered at a meeting of the Commonwealth and State draftsmen. Presumably the State draftsmen were acting on their instructions, as the Commonwealth draftsmen were acting on our instructions. (Quorum formed.) 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I was giving details of the various steps that have been taken to consult with the States on this matter through their representatives on the Constitutional Convention Committee. On 20 November a letter was received from  Mr Punch,  the Minister for Works in New South Wales and  chairman  of Committee B of the Constitutional Convention, asking for copies of the Bill for consideration by the Committee as soon as possible. The Prime Minister replied advising that discussions between the parliamentary draftsmen were still continuing but that he would meet the request as soon as possible. On 30 January 1974 there was a letter from the Attorney-General to State Attorneys-General forwarding revised drafts. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! A quorum was called, which took up some of the Minister's time. I suggest that the House pay him the courtesy of not engaging in conversation and further interruption. 
That was followed by a letter from the First Parliamentary Counsel to State draftsmen forwarding revised drafts. 
It does not matter. Let me make the point. On 31 January a letter was sent from the First Parliamentary Counsel to the Chief Executive Officer of the Convention, again forwarding copies of revised drafts. Similar steps were taken on 13 February. I will cut this short,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  More steps of a similar kind were taken on 14 February in relation to revised drafts. All this indicates that agreement was being reached progressively. On 18 and 19 February draft Bills were considered by the meeting of Commonwealth and State draftsmen. The same thing happened on 20 and 22 February. On 25 February there was the first suggestion from  Mr Punch  that it might be inappropriate for the referendum to coincide with the Senate election. The underlying point here is this: As 1 said at the outset, we have in Australia an excessively rigid Constitution. We have a Constitution that is excessively legalistic. Attempts to change it by referendum invariably fail. 
In most cases. The whole history of Australia is that they fail. Whether it is because of conservatism by Australians and fear of change or whether it is because of the adversary system that exists in this House, I do not know. I suspect that that has a lot to do with it. Whatever Governments put up, whether there is merit in it or not, it invariably meets opposition from the Opposition. I say that to the honourable gentlemen sitting opposite me with respect. Once anyone is heard to say anything at all against a proposal for constitutional change it invariably fails. 
The only instrument of change in the whole country - notwithstanding that 70-odd years have passed since Federation - has been our High Court. That again is legalistic. The most recent example of it being able to help us was the concrete pipes case in 1971. There was a gap of 62 years since the Huddart Parker case in 1909. The Court expressed a view on what laws could be made in respect of corporations. It took more than 60 years for the High Court to be able to change it. That is not good enough. With the rate of change that is occurring in the world today, constitutional change must keep up. If referendums will not do it and if the High Court, although more successful, cannot do it, another means has to be found. I argue that it must be found in what I will call cooperative federalism. That is an expression which the Prime Minister has used on many occasions. We on this side are often accused of being centralists. 
Honourable members opposite say that we are. Let us consider this measure. If the people carry it, this measure will take power away from us and give it to the States. If this measure succeeds we will be giving power to the States. I ask honourable members opposite: Where is their centralism allegation then? What I am trying to point out is that the argument is fought out in shibboleths, trite sayings, slogans and dogma - all too often party dogma. Honourable members opposite accuse us of being centralists. We have said: 'Let us reach common ground. The Constitution is bad. We all agree that it is bad'. The States will not give us power - we know that - because they want it for themselves. It is an institutionalised system. It goes against human nature for people having power to want to give it up. We recognise that. We are saying: 'Let us have the power to give something to them and see whether we can reduce the opposition that exists at the moment to their giving power, where it is appropriate, to us so that we can move towards a better system'. That surely is co-operative federalism. At the moment it is all one way, and it does not work. 
The State Premiers recognised the merit of that when they met at Kirribilli House back in September. The only gentleman who was not prepared to go there, because he seemed to be suffering from a fit of pique, was the Premier of Queensland. All the others recognised it and openly declared their support for the proposition. It was something that was negotiable. It was something about which civilised men - Australians who have the welfare of Australia at heart - could sit down and say: 'Here is something we can give to you because it is proper and correct. Here is something you can give to us because it is proper and correct'. That is an additional means of change. In other words, it represents flexibility. It gets rid of the rigidity and the legalism - I am a lawyer - that are inherent in the system at the moment. 
Here I have to be political, but I do not mean it in any base sense. I hold very strongly the view that arguments are put forward to support a point of view by using words that have nothing to do with that point of view. The honourable member for Moreton moved for deferment. He said: 'Stand the matter over. We have not had enough time to think about it'. There it is. He is a lawyer in regular practice. He could read it in 30 seconds. It is written in the Queen's English. It is not difficult. Heaven knows how many stages have been reached where the Australian AttorneyGeneral has co-operated with the various State Attorneys-General. The proposal has been put to  Mr Punch  at the Constitutional Convention. It has been backwards and forwards. Agreement has been reached. Mind you, agreement is not necessary. We do not have to have the agreement of the States. This proposal eventually will be put to the Australian people. The idea is to ask them to let us have power to give power to the States. We do not need the agreement of the States. It is courteous and obviously civilised to confer with them and reach agreement. We have done all that. 
But honourable members opposite come along and say: 'You have given us only 24 hours notice. What on earth have they been doing since September last year? They could pick up the Bill and read it in 30 seconds anyway. I must say that when such expressions as 'give us more time' are uttered there is an underlying reason for them because honourable members opposite do not really want the reform. All the reasons for not referring matters which have been put forward in the past such as suggestions referring to the weakness of the present constitutional system and the fact that the States are concerned about referring powers to the Commonwealth because they might not be able to get them back or to attach conditions to them, precedent or subsequent, surely are nonsense. Let honourable members opposite pick up any book on constitutional law written by any learned writer anywhere in Australia in the last 40 to 50 years such as those written by  Sir John  Latham. They will find that there is no reason for concern. The concern comes from politicians who sit on Liberal and Country Party seats. They express concern and cloud the issue. There is no legal doubt about the issue and never has been. Let honourable members opposite try to find their views put forward by a reputable lawyer anywhere. Again, one must look to underlying motives. 
Honourable members opposite do not want change. They prefer the present system. This might sound political. It is political but not, I hope, in a base way. It is political because, basically, honourable members opposite do not want the Constitution to be changed. They know that it is so widely held to be a bad Constitution that they cannot be heard to agree with that view. So, honourable members opposite mouth all sorts of things like 'give us more time'. How often have we heard the expression 'give us more time' said in this chamber? We on this side can deal with this matter. Why can honourable members opposite not do so? We had to think up the reasons for this legislation. We have to put forward the propositions and to do the constructive work yet honourable members opposite always say: Give us more time'. We can do this work and we were in Opposition for 23 years. Why can honourable members opposite not do it? 
I hold strongly to the view that this matter of constitutional change is far too important a matter to be left to lawyers. If the solution is to be found is has to be found by politicians because there is a very close working relationship between law and society. Law sets the guidelines, whether it be company law, criminal law, the law dealing with securities and exchange or the law of torts. The law sets the guidelines for the conduct of the whole of society. To my way of thinking, this country has a ridiculous basic system of laws. For example, is it widely known that each of the 6 Australian Stares, for reasons of private international law, is a separate sovereign State? Those members opposite who are lawyers perhaps will remember a case of Anderson v. Eric Anderson concerning a motor car accident which took place in the Australian Capital Territory. The person who was injured decided to sue in New South Wales where the law was different to the law applying in the Australian Capital Territory. If it were held in New South Wales that there was any element of fault on the part of the injured person who was driving one car, it would have meant complete failure and that no compensation would be payable. In the Australian Capital Territory, by the laws of this Territory, such a finding would mean merely a reduction in the measure of damages. The argument went backwards and forwards. Here in Australia in, I think, 1971 or 1972 the question was: 'What was the law to apply?' Should they apply the law of New South Wales because the New South Wales court was considering the case or because one of the parties lived in New South Wales, or should the law of the Australian Capital Territory apply? If there had been a Victorian element in the case another complicating factor would have been introduced. If a party had sued in New South Wales he would have obtained one result and if he had sued in the Australian Capital Territory there would have been a different result. 
We talk about being one nation but the situation I have just described does not help us to work towards being one nation. Yet when people like those on our side of the House come forward and say: 'Let us try to reach agreement. Let us go to the people with a referendum. Let us hope that the High Court judges do the right thing' - which they do, because they are Australians like the rest of us - from where does the opposition come? It comes always from the Liberal and Country Parties, for a variety of different reasons. However, they never state the real basic reason why they do not want the change. They prefer things as they are, although they are not prepared to admit it to the people. Honourable members opposite rely on confusion, doubt, clouding the issue and pitching the argument. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  is a past expert at it. Honourable members opposite are on a different level altogether to honourable members on this side of the chamber. 
This Bill, more than anything else this Government has brought forward, nails the idea of centralism in the obscene way in which it is sometimes described by Opposition spokesmen because it seeks to have the Australian people say to the Australian Government: You can have power. You do not have to exercise it, but you can have power to give away power - power to give it to the States'. Yet honourable members opposite, using all their sophistry say: 'Even that might be bad'. This Government has tried to say: 'Look, we will try to reduce some of the animosity that exists with the States. Let us add a new dimension to constitutional change, beyond the High Court and the referendum process which has proved so difficult. Let us set up a system whereby people from the States and from the Australian Government can sit down together and negotiate the constitutional changes that are so badly needed'. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian delegation on the twenty-second International Conference of the Red Cross at Teheran. For some years the International Committee of the Red Cross has convened international conferences to consider and develop all aspects of any humanitarian law applicable in time of armed conflict. The first of these conferences took place in 1971, the second in 1972. Further consideration was given to this work at the twenty-second International Conference of the Red Cross, which took place at Teheran from 8 to 15 November. Consistent with this Government's great interest in human rights, including the human rights of the individual in time of armed conflict------- 
I have no dissent at all from the first statement contained in the publication 'Inside Canberra' which I read last night with concern. I have a copy of it in front of me at the moment. The second statement implies that a decision has been made on the merger of the 2 departments whereas no decision has been made. Indeed, it would be completely wrong for a decision to be made at a time when the whole issue is still under consideration. 
The merger of the departments is being considered, but obviously the question of who will be the permanent head of the new department has not been considered. No decision has been made in that regard; it would be quite wrong to make such a decision. It is to be regretted that reviews or documents such as this publication which are circulated and widely read in Canberra should have this mischievous incidental effect, because it can cause serious embarrassment in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
It is interesting that members of the Liberal Party and Country Party Opposition not only encourage discontent and enjoy discontent but also are voyeurs of discontent and embarrassment wherever it occurs in this country or in the Public Service. This is manifest by their interjections at this stage. There is a proper time to do these things. I would like to say that both gentlemen referred to in the question and the officers who serve them have served loyally and well during the time that I have been Minister for Supply and Minister for Secondary Industry. I have been impressed by their dedication, their knowledge and their professionalism. Anything that causes mischief and misunderstanding of the kind referred to is to be regretted. No decision has been made on the matter. 
 I move: 
That a message be sent to the Senate requesting the Senate to resume consideration of the Bill intituled "A Bill for an Act relating to certain Trade Practices", which was transmitted to the Senate for its concurrence during the last Session of Parliament, the proceedings on such Bill having been interrupted by the Prorogation of the Parliament. 
This motion is merely procedural. Its purpose is to restore to the Notice Paper of the Senate the Trade Practices Bill which previously had passed this House and reached the Senate. The Government attaches great importance to the Trade Practices Bill, which will regulate restrictive trade practices and monopolisation and will protect the Australian consumer from unfair commercial practices. The Government is very concerned that there has been such a long delay in the enactment of any effective anti-trade practices legislation in Australia. The initial steps go back to 1959. The existing Restrictive Trade Practices Act enacted by the previous Government and which this Bill will replace, has proved to be one of the most ineffectual pieces of legislation ever passed by this Parliament. This was recognised by the Opposition when, as the Government of the day, it attempted to strengthen the law concerning restrictive trade practices. This Government has encountered delay with the Bill. The net result is that the people of Australia have had to endure for the last decade a wide range of restrictive, commercial and business practices which have been operating to the detriment of the community. Continued delay in the passing of effective legislation is only adding to the injustice and the injury being experienced by the community. It is not only the general public which is being injured but industry and commerce themselves as the practices lead to inefficiency in industry and artificially high prices and add to inflation. It is in the interests of industry itself, as well as of the general public, that the practices that are injurious be stopped as soon as possible. 
This Bill has received considerable attention. The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has spelt out in detail the intentions of the Bill. Private individuals and industry associations have examined it and commented on it. Officers of the Attorney-General's Department have been made available to discuss and explain its provisions. There can be no argument for any further delay in the consideration of the Bill. It is not surprising that some business and commercial interests that practice unfair and injurious actions as will be prohibited or controlled under the terms of this Bill should be so determined in their opposition. The Government appreciates that they are entitled to express their opinions and to argue their case. It has facilitated their doing so. Indeed, as a consequence, the Attorney-General has studied their submissions closely together with the comments from other interested parties. As a result the Attorney-General will introduce a number of amendments to the Bill when it is placed before the Senate. These amendments will go a long way towards meeting certain concern that has been expressed about certain sections of the Bill expressed in the informed and responsible submissions made to the Attorney-General. The Attorney-General will give details of these amendments when consideration of the Bill is resumed in the Senate. I ask that the motion be accepted'. We hope that the Bill will be given urgent consideration in the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who preceded me spoke about how the Government had ruined the economy in the last 12 months. I hope to say a few words about that later. This debate on the Appropriation Bill is an appropriate occasion to say something about government and business in Australia as it exists under a Labor government because it is sometimes claimed that as many Australian businesses have close associations with conservative parties and the Australian Labor Party has strong associations and affiliations with trade unions an Australian Labor government would be bad for business. It is also claimed that the Australian Labor Government's plans, its intentions, much of its thinking and its history require it to redistribute resources away from areas of lesser importance towards areas of great national need - areas that include social welfare, the relief of poverty, education, health and the solution of quality of life problems in the cities - and that this will have an adverse effect on business in Australia. It is true that the people who put forward these complaints are often businessmen. Mostly, however, they are the views of a very few big businessmen, some of whom have had their names in the newspapers recently, but they are gentlemen who would regard a Labor government as anathema to them no matter what it did. The mere existence of a Labor government is an assault to their conscience. To some others who hold similar but not quite so conservative views the very success of a Labor government's economic management policies is an embarrassment that can be overcome by them only in outbursts of resentment. Both claims are false. 
The development of vigorous and efficient Australian industries is a basic policy aim of the Australian Labor Government. A strong and growing business sector is one of the keys to achievement of Labor's social welfare program. In the short time available I shall try to trace how successful we have been in the short period we have been in office. The first year of the Labor Government saw a restoration of full employment. It was a year of great and growing prosperity in the business sector. During the year 1973 the gross profits of Australian companies increased by a billion dollars - a 20 per cent increase compared with the last year of the previous LiberalCountry Party coalition Government. In response to the strong demand for their products and with their confidence restored businessmen have increased their investment in new plant and buildings to new record levels. By the December quarter 1973 private fixed capital expenditure was 23 per cent, or almost one-quarter, above its level a year earlier under the previous Government - the so-called government of big business - and further increases are planned by businessmen. The annual reports of company after company show record profits. On the rural front we have seen, in the same first year - we have been listening, of course, to some so-called alleged rural spokesmen although one would doubt their bona fides- 
We represent more rural areas than you would ever represent. (Quorum formed.) On the rural front we have seen in the first year of the Labor Government one of the greatest advances in farm prosperity in Australia's history. In the December quarter 1973 the gross farm product was no less than 47 per cent above its level in 1972  -  almost half as much again - and farm incomes rose by an estimated 60 per cent. Utilised industrial capacity in Australia is at an all time high. While doing all this, the Government managed to increase imports to Australia by about 53 per cent on the 1972 figures. Compare these facts with the last years of the Liberal-Country Party Government. They were years of growing unemployment, little prosperity, little demand for products, lower capital expenditure, lower rates of investment in new plant and buildings, lower profits and great amounts of unused productivity capacity. How better to rebut and give the lie that we are anti-business than to recite these simple and recent facts? 
How often have we also heard the claim by supporters of the former administration that under a Labor government ever-increasing bureaucracies will starve private business of the manpower it needs. This claim also is completely refuted by the facts. In 1972  -  the last year of the previous coalition government - private employment in Australia grew by only 53,000. Government employment increased by 35,000 of which 7,300 represented growth in the Australian Public Service. That was a ratio of private to government of less than 5 to 3. In 1973, in complete contrast, private employment grew by 187,000 and, despite the increase in the Australian Public Service necessary to carry out our policies, total government employment increased by only 28,000, which was less than in 1972, notwithstanding 4 Labor Party governments throughout Australia. Not only did we restore the growth in employment shattered by our predecessors but it was restored in a ratio of 7 to 1 in favour of the private sector. 
Of course Australia has not been able to escape the effects of the present world wide inflation. A series of breakdowns in the world monetary system in recent years threw currency markets into turmoil. We all know that; it is a notorious fact. World food prices have soared to unimagined levels as a result of severe shortages cause by drought and crop failures in the world's major food producing countries. Shortages of many basic industrial commodities, including oil, chemicals, paper, iron and steel and non-ferrous metals have also exerted strong pressure on prices. As a major trading nation Australia could not escape the effects of these world forces which have been particularly strong on export commodities such as food, wool and non-ferrous metals. Food alone accounts for 47 per cent of the increase in consumer prices in Australia in the past year - nearly half of the increase that has taken place. 
No Australian Government could have avoided the inflationary influence of these world changes. The previous Government however, was particularly guilty of culpable neglect in leaving us exposed and defenceless against those world changes, and what they meant to us. The Country Party in particular must carry much of the blame for this because of its usual predictable irresponsible attitude to revaluation, and the Liberal Party also for being so weak and ineffectual as to not being able to stand up to the Country Party when it wrangled about revaluation back in 1970. Together they made the situation worse by failing to maintain the proper value of the Australian dollar and their failure to control the inflow of unwanted and inflationary funds from abroad. 
Let me give the figures. They have been well given but they bear repeating. In consequence, in the last 6 months of 1972 the money supply in Australia increased at an annual rate of 34 per cent - about 4 times the annual rate of increase for the past few years. This has been referred to by many authoritative speakers in recent times. There was no defence against this money inflow - the previous Government left us defenceless. In 1972 Australia's foreign exchange reserves almost doubled in one year, rising by more than 2 billion dollars. In the last half of the year capital inflow into Australia amounted to almost a billion dollars. This flood of foreign money financed a speculative property boom which pushed home prices beyond the reach of many people. 
The previous Government compounded the problem by refusing to regulate the amount of finance flowing into housing. During the period 1970-71 to 1972-73 the volume of money made available as credit by the various lending institutions in Australia for housing construction - they were permitted to do it, there was nothing to control or regulate the position - is estimated to have quadrupled, placing intolerable strains on the available supplies of manpower and materials and further increasing home prices. The previous Government had done nothing to increase the capacity of that industry to enable it to cope with the great, increase in demand. 
The inevitable increases that took place in the prices of staple items in the budgets of Australian families then generated claims for wage and salary increases which could not in equity be denied by our wage fixing authorities. They have, it must be stated, also generated industrial unrest. When we took office, the seeds of inflation had been sown and in many respects its immediate growth was beyond our immediate control. 
It is well known that in framing policies to deal with this situation we completely and will always reject the policy used by previous governments of attempting to cure inflation by creating unemployment - putting people out of work. That road leads to the stagnation which we were elected to eliminate and which we did eliminate. It leads to great hardships. It leads also to the destruction of the business prosperity that we have worked to re-establish and which we have re-established. 
Let me list a number of the basic and important steps which we have taken to date. We have restored the Australian dollar to its true value - an approximate revaluation of 30 per cent. We have stopped the excessive inflow of foreign funds by instituting the variable deposit requirement scheme. We have made general and specific tariff reductions that will improve industrial efficiency as well as help contain the rate of inflation. 
We have established machinery to restrain prices in Australia. The operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal have worked against price increases over a wide range of items. Public inquiries and private hearings into the prices of iron and steel, motor vehicles, paper and beer have resulted in the companies concerned accepting price increases lower than they had proposed. People who read the newspapers will appreciate the truth of what I am putting forward. We have urged wage fixing authorities to give preference to minimum wage earners whose need is greatest rather than awarding equal percentage increases to all wage and salary earners. 
Legislation with real substance has been introduced to protect consumers and businessmen from unfair methods of dealing and restrictive trade practices. They could have been operating now were it not for the LiberalCountry Party Opposition in the Senate. Without the measures we have taken we would now face an inflation of disastrous proportions and the prospect of a serious business recession. 
The Government is of course aware that some of these policies may and probably will also result in structural changes in our Australian economy. Changes that although nationally beneficial and desirable for that reason, could appear to hurt a minority of Australian firms and workers if measures were not taken to avoid this. For this reason, we provided, on the occasion of the 25 per cent tariff cut, for special forms of adjustment assistance which, we are happy to say, we have not had to use on any significant scale. Nevertheless the measures stand ready for use should the need arise. We are involved in the preparation of a much more comprehensive system of adjustment assistance to industry. In continuing the tariff review initiated by the previous Government and in taking the actions to stimulate the imports that I have described, the 
Government has given and is giving to Australian industry, the opportunity to develop efficient lines of production which can stand securely on their own feet without wasteful and discriminatory support. 
On the question of wasteful and discriminatory support, we should not forget that, while the tariff has fostered the growth of important sections of Australian industry, it has not been without cost to business and the community generally; cost that is inevitably borne by the consumers, that is, by all of us. It was estimated several years ago that the cost of the tariff protection available in Australia - broadly in terms of an equivalent subsidy - would, if it were all used, be in the vicinity of 2 billion to 3 billion dollars per annum. Whatever the actual measurement and cost of that protection, we have reduced it during our short term in office by more than a quarter. 
In saying that I am not here suggesting that the Australian consumer unnecessarily paid this amount of extra money. I am putting the facts forward to indicate the extremely high and largely unknown - because it is unseen - cost of protection that is carried by the community. I am also saying that the benefits to the Australian consumer by our actions like the 25 per cent tariff cut and our revaluation are enormous. They are in the process also of becoming obvious. 
Firm in our belief that there are great benefits to be obtained from international trade and that if we are to pay for our imports we must export, we have announced plans to establish an export bank to facilitate the provision of export finance for medium and long term credit sales of machinery and capital equipment. We support the expansion of international trade because international trade allows us to make the most of our natural advantages in the areas of mining and rural products as well as in secondary industry and primary industry. By concentrating on what we are good at and by giving Australians access to overseas produced goods in terms of goods and services we stand to maximise the return by doing this for every day's work done by average Australians. We will be ensuring a high and increasing standard of living for all Australians, because we seek to benefit from international trade. 
We appreciate that the import side of the international trade coin can create competition for Australian firms but we have every confidence in .the ability of Australian industry to withstand and match such competition given the opportunity and provided resources are not wastefully diverted into inefficient and cost increasing avenues of production. 
I have been discussing the relationship between government and business. I have given facts to prove that under this Whitlam Labor Government, Australian business is doing extremely well. No-one really disputes it. Circumstances and situations will change in this ever-changing world, but the Government takes pleasure in the prosperity and plans for it to continue. I strongly believe that Australian business will always do better under a Labor government than under non-Labor governments for no other reason that the blunt truth of the matter is that Labor governments administer the economy and take action where it is necessary in the interests of all Australians. We do not simply preside over it, as our predecessors did. I might say that the greatest enemy to business confidence in this country today is the covert and snide campaign that the Opposition parties are waging by dangling false bogies in front of businessmen. As I go around the country and speak to businessmen- (Quorum formed.) 
Pursuant to section 33(3) of the Criminology Research Act 1971, I present the First Annual Report of the Australian Institute of Criminology for the year ended 30 June 1973 together with a statement by the AuditorGeneral on the financial statements of the Institute. 
Pursuant to section 43(5) of the Criminology Research Act 1971 I present the First Annual Report of the Criminology Research Council together with a report from the AuditorGeneral on the financial statements of the Council for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement concerning the survey of manufacturing activity conducted by the Department of Secondary Industry. 
in reply - I shall be brief in my reply. The Government welcomes the support that has been extended to this measure by all honourable members who have spoken in the debate. One or two questions have been asked in the debate. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  asked where the Institute was likely to be located. It is my understanding that it will be located in Canberra. I appreciate the point he made about the advantages of locating it in another capital city. Considerable thought was given to the degree of association which should exist between such an institute and a university. Indeed, I think someone raised in the debate on this Bill in the other place the question of the Institute's association with the College of Advanced Education. I know that in the very early discussions which preceded the decision to set up the Institute I was attracted to the idea that a postgraduate section could be attached to the School of Advanced Studies at the Australian National University. The thinking that prevailed was that the relationship and association should be strong but informal. 
The subject of lawyers' law is one that does not often attract very much interest, even in this Parliament, which is a pity. The lack of priority that has been given to reform of lawyers' law over many years is something for which we have all paid dearly. Anyone who practices in law can well sympathise with and appreciate the remarks of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  about the difficulty in finding the law and the enormous amount of time that is all too often wasted on doing so. One has to go to the principal Act and search the various amending Acts and the Schedules to them in an attempt to discover it. I often think - indeed, I have said so on numerous occasions - that the cost of a law yer's services to his clients is often much greater than it need be because of the consolidation problem. As we know, the Government is taking active measures to consolidate the Commonwealth statutes. They have not been consolidated since, I think, 1955. To my way of thinking the situation almost verges on scandalous. We are all guilty in this respect. The statute law revision measures which have been initiated are part of the same process. 
We can all sympathise with the problem but the fact is that not many people are attracted to parliamentary drafting work. Various measures have been taken to try to attract people. I think the tribute which was paid to the former honourable member for Berowra,  Mr Tom  Hughes, is a tribute that was well earned. He set up the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. Another significant step forward was taken last year by the present Government when the task of drafting delegated legislation - ordinance and regulations - was given to a special section of the Attorney-General's Department, thus freeing the Office of Parliamentary Counsel for the task of preparing Bills only. It was because of that measure and the dedication of the officers of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel that the Government was able to introduce and have enacted a record amount of legislation during 1973. I know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has on many occasions in my presence paid tribute to  Mr Charles  Comans, who is the First Parliamentary Counsel, for the quality of the work that he and his fellow officers have turned out. They have worked themselves very hard indeed. I have seen them when their eyes have been bloodshot from working virtually all night on turning out the mass of legislation that the Labor Government managed to introduce and have put through the Parliament last year. So anything that will improve the situation should be sought. 
This measure is largely experimental. As the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  said in the Senate, it is just another step forward. A lot will depend on the quality of the men who staff the Institute - the Director and the people he chooses to work with him. It will be related, of course, to the work they can attract from the universities and the assistance that is given to them by officers of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel and others. In terms of the different styles that exist at present between the State governments  and the Australian Government and in view of the desirability of uniformity, I see this as being a measure to which one can look forward as having a great chance of success. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Id Committee 
The Bill. 
I refer to clause 11 of the Bill, which reads: 
The Director shall be paid remuneration at such rate, and an annual allowance at such rate (if any), as the Parliament fixes, but, until 1 January 1975, the rate of remuneration and the rate (if any) of that allowance shall be as prescribed. 
The Director shall be paid such -allowances, other than an annual allowance, as are prescribed. 
I move: 
Leave out the clause, substitute the following clause: - " 11. (1) The Director shall be paid such remuneration as is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal, but, until that remuneration is so determined, he shall be paid such remuneration as is prescribed. " (2) Subject to the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973, the Director shall be paid such allowances as are prescribed. " (3) Payments under this section shall be made out of the funds of the Institute.". 
This amendment relates to what 1 would suggest is a routine matter, namely, the remuneration of the Director, lt is consequential upon the creation of the Remuneration Tribunal by the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 15 April 1973 and 20 August 1973 my Department received from the banks submissions relating to the changes in banking practice that will result from the electronic data processing of cheques and accounts, being changes that have a direct bearing on the form of the Bill. My Department has considered those submissions and has discussed them with representatives of the banks. Further discussions are to be held shortly. The honourable member may be assured that the preparation of the legislation will be proceeded with as expeditiously as possible. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Steps to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of Australian manufacturing industry can bring important benefits to the consumer in terms of the quality, supply and price of goods required to satisfy consumers' material needs. The activities of the Department of Secondary Industry in promoting the efficiency and competitiveness of industry can therefore have important implications for consumer protection. All areas of the Department are involved in activities of this kind. 
Particular Departmental activities which have a more direct bearing on consumer protection relate to the work1 of the Standards Association of Australia and the Industrial Design Council of Australia. The Standards Association of Australia (which incorporates consumer representatives and undertakes consumerorientated work in both the standards drafting and quality assurance fields) is currently expanding its consumer activities in co-ordination with the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards. The Industrial Design Council of Australia undertakes design promotion programs directed at improving the quality and efficiency of products and processes and thus helping to meet consumers' needs. 
The Department has also adopted the practice of including at least one consumer representative on each of the industry panels established to provide the Government with advice on the problems concerning particular sectors of industry and on matters affecting their future development. 
It is not possible to provide a meaningful figure of the number of officers of the Department who are engaged on work which has a bearing, directly, on consumer protection. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
to (6) The Attorney-General did not appoint an expert committee to advise him on the establishment of a Federal ombudsman. The Committee on Administrative Discretions, comprising  Sir Henry  Bland as  Chairman,  Professor H. Whitmore and  Mr P.  H. Bailey, which was appointed by the previous Government presented an interim report in January 1973 on the matter of an Australian ombudsman. That report was tabled in the House of Representatives on 29 May 1973. The final report of the Bland Committee, -which contained further recommendations relating to the establishment of an ombudsman, was tabled on 25 October 1973. 
Yes. 
The heavy legislative program during the last Budget Sittings of the Parliament prevented the drafting of the necessary legislation being completed. Drafting of the legislation is proceeding with a view to the Bill being introduced during the current sittings of the Parliament. 
The Attorney-General has furnished the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
There is no Division of the Department known as the Intellectual Property Division. There is an Intellectual Property Section of the Intellectual Property and Industrial Law Branch of the Federal Courts, Intellectual Property, Territories and Law Reform Division. The functions of that Section are the formation of legal policy in relation to intellectual property and for the administration and reform of the law relating to Intellectual Property'. 
Seventeen (17). 
(a) Advisings Division - positions numbered 5, 16, 32, 33 and 34. 
Business Affairs Division - positions num bered 3, 5, 8, 10 and 23. 
Justice and Family Law Division - positions numbered 8, 17 and 26. 
Federal Courts, Intellectual Property, Territories and Law Reform Division - positions numbered 8, 10, 12 and 25. 
(a) Advisings Division - positions numbered 2 and 35. 
Business Affairs Division - positions numbered 6, 7. 16, 24 and 28. 
Justice and Family Law Division - positions numbered 14, 16 and 19. 
Federal Courts, Intellectual Property, Territories and Law Reform - positions numbered 17 and 21. 
All of the positions which have been filled except two have been filled by officers from within (he Australain Public Service. 
Positions numbered 5 and 23 attached to the Business Affairs Division have been filled by persons from outside the Australian Public Service. 
(a)  Mr E.  J. Cooper was appointed to position No. 23. 1965-1967- Articled Clerks' Course. 1968- 1969 - LL.B. (Queensland). 1970- 1973- LL.M. (Queensland). 1965-1967- Articled  Clerk.  1969 - Admited to practise as a Barister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Quensland. Since admission, continually engaged in private practice mainly in the commercial law field. 

 Mr W. J. Beerworth was appointed to position No. 5. 1962-1964- B.A. (Sydney). 1965-1968 - LL.B. (Sydney). 1968-1969 - LL.M. (Virginia). 1971- 1973- S.J.D. (Doctor of Juridicial Science). (Virginia) Doctorate dissertation 'Critical analysis of securities regulations in Australia and annotated drafts of a proposed model code for adoption in the Federal Parliament of Australia'. 
May 1969-May 1971 - Associate Attorney with a New York firm of solicitors doing general assignments particularly in securities, corporate finance and international business fields. 
I present the report together with the minutes of proceedings from the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Privileges in connection with the matter of the letter fraudulently written in the name of the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  published in the 'Sun NewsPictorial' on 6 December 1973. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
 Mr Speaker- 
A very great American, Abraham Lincoln, once said: 'You can fool some of the people some of the time, but you can't fool all of the people all of the time'. We have just heard a valiant attempt by Liberal Party and Country Party spokesmen to fool all of the people all of the time. Let us reflect on some of the things that the last  speaker,  the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  tried to put over. He talked of profit. Under the Government of which he was a member, profit in this country was at an all-time low. Under a Labor Government profit is at an all-time high. He talked of human rights and civil liberties. Under his Government they were at an all-time low. When this Government, through its AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy),  introduces human rights legislation and anti-racist legislation, from where does the opposition come? From the Liberal Party and, in particular, the Country Party. Where does all the opposition come from to the promotion of the free enterprise mixed economy, public enterprise system of Australia? It comes from the Liberal Party and the- Country Party. 
Where does the opposition come from the Government's proposals for anti-restrictive trade practices legislation, legislation designed to encourage competition, to encourage the best features of free enterprise? It comes from the Liberal party and the Country Party. Who espouses it? The Australian Labor Party. The Opposition opposes it because it favours monopolies, cartels and restrictive trade practices. Under the previous Government's administration what was the state of the Australian economy? Two hundred thousand people were unemployed; investment figures were at an all-time low; apathy in business was at an all-time high, and there was a lack of confidence. Australia's international reputation was almost abysmally low; we were treated as a joke in international affairs. After 15 months of a Labor Government, as a result of dignified policies on foreign affairs Australians abroad now walk taller. Reinvestment decisions by Australian businessmen are at an all-time high. Reinvestment was up 22 per cent or one-fifth in the December quarter of last year. It totalled $330m, indicating increased confidence in the continued prosperity of Australia. It took a Labor Government only 15 months to do it. The Opposition had 23 years to do it and it was failing as time went by. Who put an end to unemployment? This Australian Labor Government did. Yet Opposition members have the gall to come into this chamber and speak in an hysterical manner and behave in the way that they do. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is a study in vacuity - that is the best description anyone can give him. He is a study in vacuity every time he stands up here. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  perhaps could not be described in the same manner, but he certainly is not candid, nor is he frank, and as I said- 
Dishonest. Putting it in the terms of that great American, Abraham Loncoln, he is trying to fool the people, but the facts will speak for themselves. Let us talk about the Senate. Who rejected the Commonwealth Electoral Bills? The LiberalCountry Party Coalition in the Senate did. Who even refused that small but important measure to allow the Australian Capital Territory, commonly accepted as the most underrepresented part of Australia, to have representation in the Senate? The Liberal Party and the Country Party did because they thought they might not win an Australian Capital Territory position. Their people in the Senate said: 'No. We will not even let the Australian Capital Territory, with 200,000 people, have any senators - notwithstanding that Tasmania, say, has 10 senators. 
Who refused the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill? Who refused the referendum Bills? The Government put forward 5 proposals that it says the Australian people should be allowed to vote on. The Opposition is entitled to take the view that the people should vote one way, but it is not entitled to say that the people should not consider the proposals. Yet that is what the Opposition is doing. The Government put forward a proposition that would outlaw gerrymanders and enshrine in the Constitution, if the people approved of it, the principle of one man one vote and the principle that electorates should Le as near as practicable equal. The Opposition is entitled to say that it does not believe in electorates being as nearly as practicable equal, it is entitled to say that it does not believe in the principle of one man one vote - and obviously by its actions it does not. Its whole electoral system rests on the principle of one man one vote not being so. But it is not entitled to let the Australian people be denied the right to think about it. Yet on every electoral proposition for a referendum that the Government has put forward to put a matter to the people to allow the people to decide, the Opposition has said no. 
The Opposition cries 'centralism'. The height of its hypocrisy is the opposition that it put forward to the proposal whereby an exchange of powers between the Commonwealth and the States could take place. When the Labor Government puts forward the proposition: Give us the power to give away power, to give power to the States, if they are minded to accept it and give something in return for if it meets with their agreement, the Opposition says that not even that should be agreed to; that that is centralism. It says that the power to give away power is centralism. How absurd can you get? I do not mind Opposition members being absurd, but when they say that the people shall not even consider it and they oppose the legislation here and they oppose it in the Senate, their hypocrisy should be seen and understood and appreciated. The very success of Labor Party policies, the success in restoring full employment, the success in restoring business confidence- 
Let the honourable member look at the surveys carried out by the Department of Secondary Industry. 
The best evidence of business confidence is two fold; record profits that speak for themselves and record decision to reinvest moneys in industries - '$330m or an increase of 22 per cent in the December quarter. That indicates the confidence of businessmen in this Government. When the Opposition was in power, the businessmen were screaming out: 'God save us from them'. And we have. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party spoke about mandates. The techniques and the technology and the definitions of mandates need not concern us but think of one little point that I put. In the last few years under the previous Go.ernment estimates were given that the state of Australian education, that all-important matter of Australian education - our children growing up - was so sick and sorry that $ 1400m over 5 years was required to put it right. That was the result of a survey by State Ministers for Education and their respective bodies. Honourable members opposite could not do it; they would not do it. In our first year we doubled the spending on education. Sure, we took away $70m from the superphosphate bounty and sure, we took away $40m from the investment allowances, but our other policies produced the reinvestment figures I have just given. We found that the reinvestment allowance was not necessary so we put that money to good use. We spent it on education, housing and social services, the things the Opposition neglected for 23 years. We spent $700m, in round figures, on education in our first year and the success that has attended the efforts of this first Labor Government in so long is what produces the Opposition's hysteria and its hatred, and causes it to resort to subterfuge, dishonesty and to trying to feil all the people all the time. 
Let the listeners hear what the Opposition says and then weigh those words against the facts as they now know them - full prosperity in the Australian community, something that did not exist 18 months ago; full employment, something that did not exist 18 months ago; education being put right, something that was not being done 18 months ago; housing being put right, something that was not being done 18 months ago; social services being put right, something that was not being done 18 months ago. I could go on. That performance pro  duces  the Opposition's hysteria and its opposition and provokes its hatred. Twentythree years produced an intolerance in the Opposition that does not permit anyone, whether a Labor Government or any other alternative Government, to come along and find the answers that it could not find. 
One can see now increased expenditure for culture and the arts, a different attitude to oil exploration and the control of Australia's resources. I remind the House that the previous Government was selling our resources to overseas interests. We know why. We know that the Opposition got its support in large measure from overseas interests and was selling our resources to them. We know the figures for the vital energy resources of Australia - oil and natural gas - which resulted from the Opposition's deliberate policies which were designed to achieve, in the end, overseas control of them. But who tries to get them back into Australian hands? The Australian Labor Government. Who stops this sell off of Australia? Who takes steps through attempted amendments to the Australian Industries Development Corporation legislation so that Australia can be bought back from overseas control? The Australian Labor Government takes all the initiatives. But who opposes them? It is the Liberal Party and the Country Party which are consistent in their opposition to everything that is put forward by way of reform. It is pique on their part; it is hysteria on their part; and it verges at times on hatred. 
There is one other problem which, I suppose, goes to the credibility issue. The last  speaker,  the Leader of the Australian Country Party, quite incorrectly said that the Labor Government was elected to power on the votes of the people in Sydney and Melbourne. In some measure it was. But implicit in what he said was that the rest of the people did not vote for us. How untrue. We won five out of five seats for Tasmania in the House of Representatives. How much better can one do than that in Tasmania? We won a majority in South Australia and in New South Wales. How much better can one do than that? It was a completely dishonest approach. When this Government comes along and says: 'We take account of the fact that Australians are to be found all over Australia - in rural areas, big country towns, regional centres and cities - but in certain parts there is great need for attention'. The western suburbs of Sydney in particular and some of the suburbs of Melbourne require the expenditure of money. In large measure they are without sewerage and public transport, let alone educational facilities and hospitals. 
Let us look at what is sometimes called public squalor' which was so pervasive under the Opposition's system of government. We set up a special Cities Commission under the responsibility of my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and gave it funds to put these things right. In regional decentralisation, the subject that has been paid lip service for so many years, for the first time in Australian history an area has been singled out - Albury-Wodonga - and will be made a growth centre. Funds have been made available for it. For the first time negotiations have been taking place with the States over the best way to solve the urban housing crisis in Australia. These are things that the Opposition never did when in government. These are things it did not even put its mind to because its philosophy would not permit it to. The Opposition's philosophy is: Sit back and let the exploiters continue to exploit. Hands off. Preside, take the status that comes from presiding, but do not govern, do not try to guide and do not lead. That is how the previous government got itself into the mess it was in. In IS months we have transformed this country, and make no mistake about it. 
I come back to the point I made earlier about hysteria, hatred, pique and intolerance. The Opposition cannot permit these successes to continue so it resorts to blocking the Government in the Senate and using its numbers in a House that was not elected at the time that the people of Australia believed they were electing an Australian Government - December 1972. It is a House that was elected in part much earlier, in some cases 5 years before, when the world was different and when circumstances were different. The Opposition uses its numbers there to block the popular will, even to the extent of saying to the people of the Australian Capital Territory, my electorate: You shall not have 2 senators in that House'. There are 200,000 people involved and they have only one man in the entire Parliament and no State or local government. The Opposition blocks steps even to remedy that. This Government has achieved a great deal in its short time in office. It wants to continue doing a great deal. It has great schemes that it wants to put forward. It wants to continue doing the good work in controlling Australia's assets in the interests of all Australians. It wants to continue to improve social justice in this country. The battle has not stopped. 
It is basically true that the Opposition's annoyance and intolerance comes not only from what we have done but also from what we are continuing to do. For example, we pledged that we would move progressively toward putting pensioners on 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Opposition wants us to stop doing that. It wants us to go back to the Liberal-Country Party system under which pensions averaged about 19 per cent of average weekly earnings. That is what the Opposition wants us to do. We pledged that we would abolish the means test within the life of the Parliament. We want to continue to move towards that, notwithstanding the cost. It is a promise we made and we want to continue that move. The Opposition through its sense of frustration, its pique and its hysteria wants that trend to stop. It would not have done it and the Opposition knows it would not have done it. We want to give out of a greater sense of justice and honesty, a system of interest rebates to home buyers. The Opposition wants to stop that. It cannot let the Labor .Government continue with its program of social reform. It cannot let justice be done to Aborigines and to low income earners. It cannot let this prosperity continue. It has to stop it somehow. 
The difficulty will be, of course, that the Opposition has not got policies to replace our policies. In this short time - 15 months - that we have been in power I have yet to hear one proposal put forward by the Opposition on any of these major matters of social concern. I challenge anybody in this Parliament to name one. The Opposition cannot do so. There is deathly silence. It has not one policy on anything. It talks of spending less money and protests when we save money on the superphosphate bounty, the investment allowance or on some other matter and spend that money differently. I remind the House that our Budget of August 1973 spent less than the previous Government's Budget the year before. The hypocrisy comes through. We were less in deficit in August 1973 than was the previous government in August 1972. It was S660m in the red and we were less in the red. The Opposition should reflect on that when it screams out that we are spending more money than it did. We are not. We spend it differently, for better purposes and on things that are more important. 
Some mention has been made of the exchange rate. I would like to say a few words about the exchange rate and to add a few thoughts on tariff reform. I remember when the previous Government was faced with a crisis in, I think, 1970 that involved the exchange rate. If it had done the right thing then and reviewed the Australian dollar a lot of the inflationary problems now faced by the country would not have arisen. We know how Liberal and Country Party Ministers locked themselves away in a Cabinet room for a week. It is common knowledge that the Liberals were saying, on the best advice they had from the Treasury and from everyone else: 'We have to revalue the dollar, otherwise we will be in terrible trouble soon'. Who would not let them revalue? The Country Party. There was no revaluation of any consequence. 
Australia reaped the whirlwind in the second half of 1972 and in 1973 because the money supply in this country just quadrupled. Honourable members will recall the figures quoted by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  a little while ago. The amount of money in the building industry alone quadrupled in the 1971-72 period because of uncontrolled credit. The money supply went up by from 25 per cent to 30 per cent in 1972-73 because of the previous Government's refusal to take proper steps by way of economic management. It was left to the Australian Labor Party Government to revalue early in 1973 and in large measure to follow policies that produced a great allocation of resources to consumers, to purchasers of goods and to low income earners, because it meant that with the inflationary trends overseas the pressure on inflation was much less than otherwise it might have been. The best authority, of course, is  Dr Porter  of the International Monetary Fund. 
The previous Government let the production of money get completely out of control in 1972. The Labor Government's decisions on tariffs had to be taken for the same reason. The previous Government did not have the guts to do what had to be done. Those members of the Liberal Party who had studied these things knew what had to be done but they were frightened to do it and their Country Party colleagues would not let them do it. They were completely beholden to them. The Labor Government did what had to be done and followed up with policies that produced general prosperity and full employment in the country at the same time. Because of the very success of those policies the Opposition has used its numbers to oppose the reform of human rights, to oppose anti-discrimination legislation- 
I thank the honourable member for his question. The comparison between the performance of this Government and that of the previous Government is quite remarkable. In 1972, business confidence was at a very low level in Australia. Unemployment was at an all-time high, with something like 200,000 people being unemployed. Business decisions to invest in capital expenditure were low and faltering. Business decisions to reinvest out of profits were low and faltering. All the surveys conducted at the time indicated a lack of confidence on the part of secondary industry in 1972. 
After 15 months under the policies of this Government the situation is quite different. Unemployment has disappeared. Whereas 18 months ago business capacity in the factories of Australia was under-utilised and at an all-time low, in the December quarter of last year full capacity was attained. It was running at 90 per cent, as much as business could manage. So with the restoration of full employment, the achievement of record utilisation of capacities in Australan factories, productivity higher than ever before, imports higher than ever before - more than 40 per cent higher - the order books full . and with record rates of profit - something like 20 per cent on figures- - it can be seen that this Government's policies have met with a remarkable measure of success. The last surveys conducted by the Department of Secondary Industry in regard to manufacturing industry in Australia indicate that the confidence being expressed by businessmen is expected to continue and that their reinvestment decisions are being made into the future for the next 6 months to 12 months because as far as they can see ahead the policies of this Government will continue to achieve and maintain the prosperity that they have already produced. 
As the local member for the Australian Capital Territory I rise to welcome this Bill. It is of some interest - I should not think it constitutes anything in the nature of contempt or breach of privilege - to note that the Canberra afternoon newspaper has today as its headline: 'The Members for The A.C.T. - Representation Bill Passed'. Yet here we are now talking about this Bill. Perhaps the intelligence of the reporters is better than the intelligence of those of us who sit here at this stage. 
The matter on which I want to comment has already been touched on by previous speakers. The Australian Capital Territory is notoriously the most under represented area in Australia. There are certain historical reasons for this fact. The best way to describe the situation is to compare the Australian Capital Territory with Tasmania. Canberra has about 200,000 people and, as the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  mentioned a moment ago, that gives the Australian Capital Territory about 100,000 electors. Tasmania has a population of slightly below 400,000. Whereas the Australian Capital Territory has one full time politician representing 200,000 people Tasmania, with twice that number, has 10 senators, 5 members of the House of Representatives, 35 members of a lower State House, 19 members of an upper State House and, although I do not know the precise number, more than 500 aldermen. These facts come easily to my lips because I have quoted the figures so often to draw attention to the disparity in representation between one group of Australians and another. In these days when people talk about one man one vote, one sees how that ideal is certainly not achieved in a comparison of this sort. 
The Australian Capital Territory is a particularly articulate electorate. It is particularly well informed. Again, it is an electorate where there are social and historical reasons for this situation. Figures show that the Australian Capital Territory has about 5 times the national average of tertiary qualified people. The same goes for people possessing matriculation qualifications. In my view there is a strong feeling in the Australian Capital Territory electorate that it has been under represented. I say, although the previous speaker from the Opposition mentioned the question of Senate representation, that there was a strong feeling of grievance and of offence present among people in Canberra when last year the Senate denied, refused and rebutted the Government's initiative to try to give two Senate seats to the Australian Capital Territory. 
Reference has also been made to some form of local government for the Australian Capital Territory. I appreciate that this is a point of view upon which people differ. My own view, and the strong view of the local Australian Capital Territory branch of the Labor Party, is that local government with all its faults is something that people cannot be denied. We have taken an initiative to try to bring about local government. Whether it is called local government or territorial government is another matter. It need not follow the traditional form at all. Thus, while I was Minister for the Capital Territory, the Government took the first step towards bringing it about. It gave to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory a reference encompassing an inquiry into some form of territorial government. The Committee is now well advanced in its deliberations. I hope that in the not too distant future a report will be received from the Committee and that it will be given effect to by the Government. I have a strong feeling on the subject for a variety of reasons, most of which are obvious. I recall, with some pleasure, that my first speech in this House was directed to this very subject. I spoke then of the need for Senate representation for the Australian Capital Territory. This is something which the Government has tried to provide but which our opponents in the Senate have denied. The efforts have continued and from the passage of this Bill, with the support of the Opposition Parties in this House - if the afternoon paper is correct in quoting  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, it will not be opposed in the Senate either, although one cannot always be sure that what is done here will be done there - I, the Government and the people of the Australian Capital Territory and Jervis Bay, which is part of this single electorate, will take great satisfaction. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Negotiations have not been undertaken. Two delegations from the People's Republic of China visited Australia in 1973 and were given information on the aircraft. 
No. United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2918 of 14 November 1972 is concerned with the question of territories under Portuguese administration. 
Isolated School Children: Correspondence Education  (Question No. 11)  Mr Malcolm  Fraser asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Will he examine the possibility of developing special tapes to assist isolated school children who are being taught at home. 
Will he examine the equipment requirements for such a program. 
What is the cost of such equipment. 
Has his Department access to a high speed duplicator for copying video tapes. 
 I thank the honourable member for Macquarie for his question concerning defence factories. There can be no doubt that problems do exist with them in the sense that at a time of peace, a time of general relaxation in international tension as far as Australia is concerned, they pose a difficulty in relation to the obtaining of nondefence work. There can be no doubt also that if the Labor Government were not in power - if the Liberal and Country parties were in power - those government factories would be facing considerable retrenchments. There can be little doubt about that. 
Some time ago I began a course of action designed to encourage the acquisition of commercial work, non-defence work. I began making statements on the need for it and on the fact that there was unused excess capacity in the factories. We began to place advertisements in the Press seeking the co-operation of private enterprise industry in the solving of this problem. I am happy to say that the result of those efforts has been one of considerable success. There has been a considerable expression of interest. In fact we have an officer out full time obtaining work. We set up a committee to obtain work. In the case of some of the factories there has been a very considerable percentage increase in the nondefence work that the factories have been able to obtain. 
Recently, because of the emphasis that has been given in the community to the energy crisis and to the premium on the traditional sources of fuel, we have had an inquiry into the possibility of the factories - particularly the factory in the honourable member's electorate - making perhaps solar energy units that might be incorporated in government houses in, say, the Northern Territory or even the Australian Capital Territory. That committee has taken some steps towards a consideration of its proposals. That is something which is still under consideration. We also have in mind some schemes which we hope will produce a continuation of the success we have already had. For example, it is believed that the factories could make distress signalling devices for shipping and also an improved sheep shearing cutter. That is something which is particularly adapted to the skills, techniques and equipment that exist in the Lithgow Small Arms Factory. 
 That factory has made them previously and made them very well. So, in general terms, the action that the Government has taken has been very successful. In fact, one can measure that success in this way: It may interest honourable members to know that in recent times, since action was taken firm commercial orders received by the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow in 1974 exceed those obtained in the past 3 years. The general saving to the defence forces excess capacity vote is very considerable. There are different ways of measuring that saving, but, according to one measure, the saving could be as high as $4m. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill deals with remuneration and allowances for certain statutory office holders. Honourable members will recall that in 1971 the then Minister for Health, the Honourable  Sir Kenneth  Anderson, gave an undertaking that remuneration and allowances paid on an annual basis to various statutory office holders would be specified by Act of Parliament. This was in accordance with the wishes of the Senate. This Government followed a similar practice when it introduced legislation dealing with the establishment of new statutory offices. Practice has been for legislation to provide for the determination of remuneration by regulation until a specified date, after which the remuneration must be specified in an Act of Parliament. 
The need for this policy has been overtaken by the establishment of the Remuneration Tribunal last year. That Tribunal is now responsible for undertaking reviews of the remuneration of statutory office holders and others. It will do this at least once a year. Its determinations and reports will be subject to Parliamentary scrutiny, in accordance with the terms of the Remuneration Tribunal Act. This Bill is necessary to cover certain statutory office holders established before the Remuneration Tribunal Act was passed. Without passage of the Bill there will be no provision by which salary payments may be made after 1 July 1974. 
All the Bill does is allow existing remuneration to continue to be paid in accordance with regulations until a determination is made by the Remuneration Tribunal. This will ensure that the existing rates of remuneration continue to be payable should there be no determination by the Remuneration Tribunal before 1 July 1974. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
 The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Concern was expressed recently. 
There will be co-operation between the Australian Legal Aid Office and the Aboriginal Legal Services. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and I will keep under review the operation of the two services. To that end there will be discussions between our respective Departments. 
The Law Society of Western Australia has written to me expressing the view that there is no call for another legal aid organisation in Western Australia. It has asked that additional financial assistance be provided by the Australian Government to expand the Law Society's scheme of legal aid. 
I have informed the Law Society that the Australian Government has decided to establish the Australian Legal Aid Office to provide greater legal assistance to persons in need. I pointed out that an Australian Government service of this kind must be readily and equally available to all citizens of Australia and it was not therefore possible to accede to the Society's suggestion of using its Legal Advice Bureau instead of setting up an office of the Australian Legal Aid Office. 1 believe that the task of providing an adequate, ready and equal service in the field of legal aid is too great for the private profession to bear alone and that there are areas in which the service can best be provided by salaried lawyers. Equally, there are areas where the service can best be provided by the private profession. I have written to the  President  of the Law Society asking it to let me have proposals for extending the legal aid services provided through the Law Society with a view to considering provision in this year's estimates for an Australian Government grant to supplement existing legal aid schemes. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The investigation showed that some relevant information was lacking. Specific tests were put in hand late in 1973 and results are expected by mid 1974. 
See answer to (1). 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Ten (10)  -  Because of staff shortages and a general increase in the work load of the Department formal training in financial and auditing procedures has been restricted in the past twelve months to Administrative Officers from the States and the Northern Territory and in outrider Branches. Normally internal auditors meet in Conference each year but for a number of reasons, mainly because of staff changes, this could not be arranged in the past 12 months. The training program for '1974/75 makes provision for courses in finance and auditing. On the job training at all levels is a continuing process. 
The ten officers involved are all Third Division officers classified in classes 6, 7 and 8. 
All of the officers involved occupy operational positions but all have financial responsibilities and they exercise the main financial delegations in their areas. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) It has been long-standing practice to attempt to develop non-defence workload for the defence production factories in period of low defence demand. Although certain factories are highly specialised, there are skills and plant which can be brought to bear for non-defence purposes. The Government is aiming to achieve a more satisfactory utilisation of those resources. 
A Cabinet Submission dealing generally with matters relating to the defence production factories, including that of workload, is currently being prepared. 
Patients in Nursling Monies: Intensive Care Benefits  (Question No. 603) 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The establishment of the Legal Service Bureaux in each State and Territory is: 
 The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The Commissioner of Trade Practices made inquiries into the circumstances surrounding the closure of the 'Independent Sun' newspaper in Western Australia and he has given me a report on the matter. In view of the secrecy provisions of the 
Restrictive Trade Practices Act it would not be appropriate for me to disclose the contents of that report. I can say however that the Commissioner concluded that there was no further action that he could usefully take in the matter. Investigations under the proposed new Trade Practices legislation will not be shrouded by secrecy, of this kind. 
 The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to question number 479. 
 The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Restrictive Trade Practices Act provides for certain classes of agreements and practices to be examined by the Commissioner of Trade Practices and, if he thinks necessary, by the Trade Practices Tribunal, to determine whether those agreements and practices are contrary to the public interest. The matters raised by the honourable member have been referred to the Commissioner of Trade Practices for any action he may consider appropriate. 
On the basis of information provided by the honourable member, I would say yes. 
This part of the question seeks an expression of opinion which it would be inappropriate for me to provide. 
 The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The control of newspapers in Australia is largely a matter for State law. 
I understand that Newsagency Control Boards or similar bodies exist in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Western Australia and South Australia. 1 do not know of the position in Tasmania. 
I understand that these bodies consist of representatives of newspapers and, in some States, of representatives of newsagents associations also. I am not aware of any Government involvement in these bodies. 
I understand that these bodies control such matters as the accreditation of newsagencies and the transfer of newsagencies. 
and (6) This part of the question seeks an expression of opinion which it would be inappropriate for me to provide. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
I am not in a position to answer this question. Before doing so an inquiry would be necessary in which all relevant matters could be taken into account. In the course of performing its functions, the Trade Practices Commission provided for in the Trade Practices Bill 1973 could consider questions of this kind. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Restrictive Trade Practices Act provides for certain classes of agreements and practices to be examined by the Commissioner of Trade Practices and, if he thinks necessary, by the Trade Practices Tribunal, to determine whether those agreements and practices are contrary to the public interest. The matters raised by the honourable member have been referred to the Commissioner of Trade Pactices for any action he may consider appropriate. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the question. I am sure we all can assume that all honourable members in this Parliament share the concern of Australians generally when crimes of the sort to which the honourable member refers are committed, particularly when the fugitives, even though they might be only alleged fugitives, proceed to other parts of the world. The Government does have in mind amendments to the Extradition (Foreign States) Act to permit the application of that Act to countries which offer reciprocity of treatment to Australia under their domestic law. The Extradition (Foreign States) Act of 1966-72 deals with extradition to and from countries other than those in the British Commonwealth. It provides for continuation of former British extradition treaties and authorises the Governor-General to apply the Act to any other foreign State by regulation where a treaty exists. While it must be said that some progress has been made in negotiating new extradition treaties, it cannot be said that the progress has matched the increasing mobility of such persons throughout the world because of modern means of transport. I believe that the Attorney-General of 1969 approved of negotiations for an extradition treaty being made with Brazil, but now that we have reached this stage the situation is that in the case of, say, the Bartons, no treaty exists. 
It is proposed that the Act should be amended to permit the Governor-General to apply the Act to a foreign country where he is satisfied that under the domestic law of that country extradition is provided where reciprocity is offered, and proper safeguards will be made for protection of rights for fugitive persons in Australia who might be sought by a foreign country. Such persons should be fully protected by the Australian Act from prejudice arising on account of race, religion, nationality or political opinion. The proposal is that the Act be extended to a foreign country by regulation, and it will provide the Parliament with the same opportunity to scrutinise regulations applying the Act to any foreign country as applies to any other set of regulations made in the normal course of events. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Extradition (Foreign States) Act to permit the application of that Act to countries which offer reciprocity of treatment to Australia under their domestic law. 
The Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1966- 1972 deals with extradition to and from countries other than those in the Commonwealth of Nations. The Act provides for continuation of former British extradition treaties and authorises the Governor-General to apply the Act to any other foreign state by regulation where an extradition treaty is negotiated after the commencement of the Act. It also authorises the application of the Act, again by regulation, where a treaty other than an extradition treaty, which contains provisions relating to the surrender of fugitives - for example the hijacking convention - comes into force between Australia and other contracting foreign states. 
While some progress has been made in negotiating new extradition treaties it cannot be said that this has kept pace with the increasing mobility of criminals and other fugitives from justice. This is illustrated by the recent attempts to secure the extradition of the Bartons from Brazil in the absence of a treaty. Brazilian law provides that extradition from Brazil may take place where a treaty exists or where, in the absence of such a treaty, there is reciprocity of treatment. 
The term 'treaty' is denned in the Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1966 as including a convention, agreement or arrangement. Before the request for the extradition of the Bartons was made it was suggested to the Brazilian authorities that a treaty within the meaning of our Act should be made quickly by an exchange of diplomatic notes. Brazilian law, however, provided no such flexibility in relation to the form of a treaty. We then sought to negotiate an arrangement with Brazil to enable the application of the Australian Act to Brazil with Australian requests for extradition from Brazil being dealt with under the reciprocity provisions of their existing legislation. So far the Brazilian au thorites have been unable to reply to our proposals in this regard. 
What is proposed now is that the Extradition (Foreign States) Act should be amended to permit the Governor-General to apply the Act to a foreign country where he is satisfied that under the domestic law of that country extradition is provided where reciprocity is offered. The safeguarding of the human rights of fugitive persons in Australia sought by a foreign country are protected by the Australian Act. For example, the determination of whether a prima facie case is made out and whether a fugitive is a political offender are matters ultimately determined by the Australian courts. Nor can a person be surrendered if he would be prejudiced at his trial on account of race, religion, nationality or political opinion. 
It is highly desirable for the Bill to be taken through all stages during the current session of Parliament so that the Act can be extended to Brazil without delay. This is not merely to secure the extradition of the Bartons but generally to close off Brazil as a haven for white collar fugitives from Australia. There area a number of countries, of which Japan is one, where extradition laws provide for extradition where reciprocity is provided. This legislation will enable Australia to offer such reciprocity if the need arises where no treaty exists. 
It is not the intention of the Government to use this provision in substitution for the negotiation of extradition treaties. On the contrary we intend to press forward much more vigorously to negotiate new treaties where none exist and to negotiate new treaties where the treaties we have with other countries are inherited from Britain. Extradition is a 2- way process. It is necessary to ensure that extradition is not afforded from Australia in a way which is contrary to rights of the person sought by a foreign country. However, it is necessary also to ensure that justice be served and that fugitives be apprehended. 
I would stress that the proposal that extension of the Act to a foreign country should be by regulation means that the same opportunity will be afforded to Parliament to scrutinise and disallow regulations applying the Act to any foreign country as apply to any other regulations made by the Governor-General. Since treaties are. applied by regulation in the normal course Parliament will have the same surveillance of regulations applying the Act to a foreign country under the proposed legislation as it has when the Act is applied pursuant to a treaty. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
The honourable member's interest in the cause of inventors and the need to give encouragement to inventors is well known. The Government has under consideration a revised scheme for giving assistance to inventors and I hope that it will lead to action quite soon. Consultation with the Inventors Association will certainly be part of what we do. Consultation will be held before any legislation is introduced. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. This Bill is similar to the one with the same title that was passed by the House of Representatives last year except that the amendments which were circulated by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  before the double dissolution of Parliament have been incorporated in the Bill. In the previous Parliament the Senate was not prepared to debate the Bill on the ground that there had been insufficient time to con sider its provisions. This was notwithstanding that an almost identical Bill had been introduced into the Senate as early as 27 September 1973. No such reason for further delaying the passage of this important measure now exists. There has been ample opportunity for honourable members and for those whose activities will be affected by the Bill and their advisers to familiarise themselves with the provisions in the Bill. This opportunity has been availed of by a great many persons - as has been evidenced by communications and discussions with the Attorney-General and officers of bis Department. 
As I mentioned at the beginning of this speech the amendments circulated by the Attorney-General before the double dissolution of Parliament have been incorporated in the present Bill. Those amendments were prepared in the light of comments that had been received. Where it had appeared that improvements could be made to particular provisions this was done. Many of the amendments were of a drafting nature only - some of them to meet doubts that had been expressed whether or not the doubts were justified. Other amendments went beyond the drafting and made changes of substance but without changing the basic structure and scope of the Bill. The amendments to which I have just referred are indicated for the convenience of honourable members in black type in a memorandum that has been prepared to indicate the differences between this Bill and the Bill that was passed by this House on 8 November 1973. 
The purpose of the Bill is to control restrictive trade practices and monopolisation and to protect consumers from unfair commercial practices. The Bill will replace the existing Restrictive Trade Practices Act, which has proved to be one of the most ineffectual pieces of legislation ever passed by this Parliament. The Bill will also provide on a national basis long overdue protection for consumers against a wide range of unfair practices. Restrictive trade practices have long been rife in Australia. Most of them are undesirable and have served the interests of the parties engaged in them, irrespective of whether those interests coincide with the interests of Australians generally. These practices cause prices to be maintained at artificially high levels. They enable particular enterprises or groups of enterprises to attain positions of economic dominance which are then susceptible to abuse; they interfere with the interplay of competitive forces which are the foundation of any market economy; they allow discriminatory action against small businesses, exploitation of consumers and feather-bedding of industries. 
In consumer transactions unfair practices are widespread. The existing law is still founded on the principle known as caveat emptor - meaning 'let the buyer beware'. That principle may have been appropriate for transactions conducted in village markets. It has ceased to be appropriate as a general rule. Now the marketing of goods and services is conducted on an organised basis and by trained business executives. The untrained consumer is no match for the businessman who attempts to persuade the consumer to buy goods or services on terms and conditions suitable to the vendor. The consumer needs protection by the law and this Bill will provide such protection. 
The Bill is especially important because of its relevance to inflation. The purpose of many restrictive practices is to maintain prices at levels higher than would otherwise prevail. This contributes to the inflationary trend. It also reduces the likelihood that the benefits of the Government's tariff cuts will be passed on to the public. Increased competition from imports will be of little benefit if not accompanied by increased domestic competition. Consumer protection also assists in the fight against inflation. It is the consumer who has to bear the burden of higher prices and of unfair methods of dealing. 
Since the Trade Practices Bill 1973 was passed by this House the relevance of restrictive trade practices to high prices has been the subject of comment by the Joint Committee on Prices. Such comments are to be found in the Committee's reports relating to meatmeal, imports of timber and flat glass imports. Indicative of the attitude the Committee has taken to the effect of restrictive trade practices on prices is the following passage taken from its report on imports of timber: 
The Committee considers that suggested prices and margins are restrictive practices which could result in prices being higher than they would otherwise be. This could reduce the benefit of upvaluation to the consumer or user. The Committee understands that there is doubt as to whether such recommendations would constitute an examinable agreement under section 35 of the Trade Practices Act. They could, however, fall within section 45 of the Trade Practices Rill 1973. The Committee notes that such practices have the effect of chilling the vigour of price competition. 
In his seventh annual report, which was tabled earlier today, the Commissioner of Trade Practices deals at length with price agreements and the close consideration that he has given to them. The Commissioner expresses the view that the dominant reasons for joining in a price agreement are to remove the uncertainty of the market place and to keep prices higher than they would be without agreement. The Bill gives effect to a recommendation by the Council of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in December 1971 concerning action against inflation in the field of competition policy. The recommendation urged member governments of OECD, as part of the action to be taken by them against inflation, to adopt stronger measures to control restrictive trade practices and to protect consumers. 
The Government has a firm electoral commitment to introduce effective legislation in the areas of restrictive trade practices and consumer protection. This implements the promises made by the Government at the last 2 general elections. The Government believes that the Bill introduced into this Parliament should, as far as possible, indicate what forms of conduct are to be prohibited. We believe that the existing restrictive trade practices legislation is unsatisfactory in this regard. Under that legislation prohibition of a practice or agreement comes not from the law itself but from a restraining order made by the Trade Practices Tribunal. These proceedings can only be instituted by the Commissioner of Trade Practices where, in his opinion, the institution of such proceedings is desirable. To this, there is a real exception in the case of resale price maintenance and apparent exceptions in the cases of collusive tendering and collusive bidding. In our view, except for resale price maintenance, the existing Restrictive Trade Practices Act unfairly places the burden on persons whose responsibility it is to administer the law, not to make it. I do not overlook the need for some flexibility in legislation of this kind. Some agreements and practices are not objectionable. The law should provide for such agreements or practices to be treated after appropriate consideration by the administering authorities as exceptions to the general rule. This is the approach taken in the Bill. A related consideration is that a law is bound to be ineffective if it commits to the administering authorities more work than they could hope to perform. 
The unsatisfactory operation of the existing Act is made clear in the seventh annual report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices. This report states that on 30 June this year there were no fewer than 12,213 operative agreements entered in the register maintained by the Commissioner. This was only 147 fewer agreements than the corresponding number on 30 June last year. The Commissioner and his staff have done their best to deal with a vast number of agreements and practices in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Act. But it is clear from the report that the rate of progress they have been able to achieve is extremely inadequate if effective control of restrictive agreements and practices is to be attained within a reasonable period. The progress being made under the existing Act is such that it would be many years before the legislation had any significant impact on the economy. This would be unsatisfactory if inflation were not a pressing problem. Such a slow rate of progress is plainly intolerable. 
Another important principle is that a breach of such legislation should give those who are affected by the breach the right to bring private enforcement proceedings. Under the existing Act one who is adversely affected by a practice or agreement has no right to take the first necessary step of instituting proceedings in the Trade Practices Tribunal. Under that Act the institution of such proceedings is the exclusive prerogative of the Commissioner of Trade Practices. If the Commissioner takes no action the person adversely affected by the practice or agreement has no alternative course of action. It is clear that the effectiveness of legislation with respect to trade practices will depend upon the existence of :i strong administrative agency. This Bill recognises the need for such an agency. 
The agency will be called the Trade Practices Commission and will consist of a Chairman, a Deputy Chairman and such other members as are appointed by the GovernorGeneral. The Trade Practices Commission will replace the Commissioner of Trade Practices. It will have a wide range of responsibilities covering not only enforcement, but also the granting of authorisations for conduct otherwise prohibited, the granting of clearances where there is uncertainty as to the application of particular provisions. One of the amendments to the original Bill enables the Commission to go even further in this regard by making available to the public general guidance information with respect to the carry ing out of its functions and powers. The Commission will also inquire, at the instance of the Attorney-General, into the need for further legislation with respect to practices that appear to be operating unfairly against the interests of consumers. 
The Commission's functions with respect to consumer protection will complement those relating to consumer standards which the Government is undertaking. The Bill provides for mandatory consumer standards where desirable. The method will be to prescribe the standard by regulation. Any such regulation will be made under the legislation now proposed although decisions to prescribe standards will be taken in close consultation with the Minister responsible for consumer standards. Some of the functions of the Trade Practices Commission will involve the making of administrative determinations of a quasijudicial character similar in a number of respects to the determinations at present made by the Trade Practices Tribunal. 
The Attorney-General is to have a limited power to give directions to the Commission. Comments that have been made on this provision have tended to overlook the very limited nature of the power. The power is not applicable in relation to the Commission's quasijudicial functions of granting authorisations or clearances, but it will enable the AttorneyGeneral to give a direction to ensure that the legislation is otherwise being administered in an appropriate manner. 
The scope of the Commission's functions and the discretion vested in it are such that a reserve power of this kind is desirable. For example, questions of priority may arise. The power of direction is accompanied, however, by a requirement that any direction given must be made public. This requirement will ensure that the basic statutory independence of the Commission is not eroded by secret directions. Tine Bill provides for the Tribunal to be retained as a body of review. It will have power to review determinations of the Commission upon the application of an interested party. 
I now refer to some features of the drafting of the Bill. Legislation of this kind is concerned with economic considerations. There is a limit to the extent to which such considerations can be treated in legislation as legal concepts capable of being expressed with absolute precision. Such an approach leads to provisions which are complex in the extreme and give rise to more problems than they remove. 
The present Bill recognises the futility of such drafting. Many matters have, of course, had to be stated in detail. But other provisions, particularly those describing the prohibited restrictive trade practices, have been drafted along general lines using, wherever possible, well understood expressions. I am confident that this will be more satisfactory. The Courts will be afforded an opportunity to apply the law in a realistic manner in the exercise of their traditional judicial role. 
As this approach to the drafting represents a change from that in the existing Restrictive Trade Practices Act it is not surprising that some of the comments on the Bill have expressed apprehension that it will lead to uncertainty. It is of course desirable that uncertainty be kept to the minimum in this as in any other law. But it is questionable whether detailed drafting leads to more certainty. Often it does no more than obscure the broad purpose of a provision. Chief Justice Hughes of the United States Supreme Court made this very point in an opinion he delivered in 1933 in the case of Appalachian Coal Inc. v. US when he said of the Sherman Act: 
Tt does not go into detailed definitions which might either work injury to legitimate enterprise or through particularization defeat its purposes by providing loopholes for escape. 
The Bill does in fact go very much further than the Sherman Act does to remove uncertainties. Special provisions are included in the Bill for no other reason than to remove uncertainty. These are the provisions for clearances and authorisations. In the great majority of cases the applicability of the provisions in this Bill will be clear. In those cases where some uncertainty does arise, particularly during the early years of its administration, there will generally be opportunity for the uncertainty to be removed by seeking a clearance or an authorisation. Another provision that will assist in this regard is the one that I have already mentioned enabling the Commission to give the public general guidance information concerning the carrying out of its functions and powers. 
The constitutional power of the Australian Parliament to enact legislation such as that contained in the Bill was clarified by the very important decision of the High Court in what is known as the Concrete Pipes case. For present purposes that case established that restrictive trade practices and monopolisation legislation contained in the Australian Indus tries Preservation Act could validly derive support from the corporations power. It also established that legal problems can arise when provisions that depend on that power are drafted so as to be inextricably mixed in their operation with provisions that depend on other powers. 
The Bill takes account of these considerations. Most of the provisions are drafted so as to apply only when a corporation is involved. But these provisions are given by clause 6 a separate operation in reliance upon other powers. In the result, provisions which appear to be restricted to situations involving a corporation, will have an extended operation involving inter-State trade or commerce, the Australian Capital Territory, Northern Territory or dealings with the Australian Government, any of its authorities or instrumentalities, or the use of postal, telegraphic or telephone services or a radio or television broadcast. 
The present Act places much emphasis on secrecy. Everything on the Register of Trade Agreements is subject to secrecy requirements, as are the functions of the Commissioner and his staff until, in relation to a particular agreement or practice, he institutes proceedings in the Tribunal. Such secrecy is undesirable and goes beyond what is reasonably necessary for the protection of confidential information. The Bill confines secrecy to confidential information. However the secrecy which has applied to the Register is not to be removed. I should add that under the Bill the existing registration requirements are not to be continued. The importance of the Register will become progressively less and less. The existing overseas cargo shipping provisions have been included in the Bill in their present form. This should not be taken as an indication that the Government is satisfied with the provisions. They will be the subject of a later review which will take into account, amongst other things, international negotiations. This will be done by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  who has the ministerial responsibility in this area. 
My last preliminary comment relates to the question of legal aid for matters arising under this legislation. When the earlier Bill was introduced last year an indication was given that a provision enabling legal aid to be granted in appropriate cases was under consideration. The present Bill includes such a provision. 
The Provisions with Respect to Restrictive Trade Practices 
In brief, the Bill prohibits the following practices: Contracts, arrangements and understandings in restraint of trade or commerce: monopolisation; exclusive dealing; resale price maintenance; price discrimination; anticompetitive mergers. 
The provisions with respect to contracts, arrangements and understandings in restraint of trade or commerce are to be found in clause 45. The words arrangements and understandings are now used in place of the words combinations and conspiracies used in the earlier Bill. The clause will cover restraints of trade or commerce such as price-fixing agreements and collusive tendering, marketsharing agreements and collective boycotts. Sub-clause (3), which was not included in the earlier Bill, makes it clear that a contract is not prohibited if its effect on competition is not significant. 
The making of contracts, arrangements and understandings in restraint of trade or commerce after the commencement of clause 45 will be prohibited. Contracts entered into before that date will become unenforceable, although a new provision in clause 87 will enable the Court to make consequential adjustments to the rights of parties. 
Monopolisation is defined in clause 46, which has been re-drafted since the earlier Bill was before this House. The clause covers various forms of conduct by a monopolist against his competitors or would-be competitors. A monopolist for this purpose is a person who substantially controls a market. The application of this provision will be a matter for the court. An arithmetical test such as one third of the market - as in the existing legislation - is, we believe, unsatisfactory. The certainty which it appears to give is illusory. 
Clause 46 as now drafted makes it clear that it does not prevent normal competition by enterprises that are big by, for example, their taking advantage of economies of scale or making full use of such skills as they have; the provision will prohibit an enterprise which is in a position to control a market from taking advantage of its market power to eliminate or injure its competitors. 
The provision will not apply merely because a person who is in a position to control a market engages in conduct within one of the classes set out in the clause. It will be necessary for the application of the clause that, in engaging in such conduct, the person concerned is taking advantage of the power that he has by virtue of being in a position to control the market. For example, a person in a position to control a market might use his power as a dominant purchaser of goods to cause a supplier of those goods to refuse to supply them to a competitor of the first mentioned person - thereby excluding him from competing effectively. In such circumstances the dominant person has improperly taken advantage of his power. 
Exclusive dealing is defined in clause 47. It covers arrangements in accordance with which a supplier of goods or services has entered into an arrangement with a person acquiring those goods or services from him and the effect of the arrangement is to limit the freedom of that person to deal as regards persons or places. 
Under the clause which has been re-drafted since the earlier Bill was before the House, there are 3 forms of exclusive dealing. In general, exclusive dealing will be prohibited only where the practice is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. This requirement, however, does not apply to 2 specific forms of exclusive dealing. One of these is where a person's ability to supply goods or services is entirely dependent on a licence, permit, authority or registration under a law of Australia and that person insists, as a condition of supply to another person, that the other person acquire all or part of his requirements of other goods or services directly or indirectly from the first mentioned person. The other specific form of exclusive dealing to which the requirement of reduction of competition does not apply is where a third person is involved. This covers the practice by which a supplier requires a customer to acquire other goods or services from a third person. This is often done pursuant to arrangements under which the supplier obtains a commission or other benefit on sales by the third person to the customer. 
The scope of the present clause 47 is significantly narrower than that of the provision it replaces. In particular, the present clause does not cover restraints that apply to suppliers. The clause will not cover the ordinary grant of an exclusive franchise to market a supplier's goods. The granting of such a franchise may not involve a restraint of trade or commerce. Where a restraint is involved, and where its effect on competition is significant, clause 45 will apply. 
Resale price maintenance is defined in Part VIII in substantially the same terms as defined in the existing Act. One of the changes made to this definition ensures that the definition covers action by a manufacturer to induce a retailer, who has obtained the manufacturer's goods through a wholesaler, to maintain retail prices specified by the manufacturer. Another change ensures that the definition covers the practice by which a supplier stipulates minimum prices at which a distributor may advertise, as distinct from sell. Permissible methods of recommending resale prices have been clarified, as also have the evidentiary provisions in clause 100. 
The practice of price discrimination is defined in clause 49, which has been redrafted since the earlier Bill was before this House. The drafting of the new clause has been improved in a number of respects. In particular, the clause is now expressly limited to discrimination that is of magnitude or of a recurring or systematic character. The prohibition of the practice applies where such discrimination is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods, and the clause makes it clear that that market must be one in which the parties to the discriminatory dealing supply goods. This last limitation removes any question of regard being had to effects on competition further down the line. There is no need under clause 49, as there is under the existing legislation, for a threat or promise, and the prohibition extends to the granting, as well as to the obtaining, of discriminatory prices. 
The discriminatory dealing provisions are based on provisions in the United States legislation known as the Robinson-Patman Act, and commentators have been quick to note that that legislation has been the subject of some criticism in the United States. I point out therefore that a number of significant changes have been made to avoid criticisms that have been expressed in relation to the American legislation. Of particular importance is the fact that the Bill is concerned with the preservation of competition of a much broader kind than is the case with the RobinsonPatman Act. 
Mergers are prohibited by clause 50 where a likely effect would be to substantially lessen competition in a market. Questions will of course arise as to whether particular mergers are likely to have such an effect on competition. In this regard the provisions for clearances and for authorisations will be available and will enable businesses to resolve their uncertainties. Additionally, the Bill now contains a provision to which I have already referred which will enable the Commission to give advance public guidance concerning the approaches it is taking in the administration of the provisions for merger control. 
The Bill does not conflict in any way with the operation of the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act. Provisions to avoid such conflict are to be found in clause 90. Sub-clause 9 of clause 90 enables the Government to ensure that a merger is permissible if, in the Government's view, there are special considerations which conform to the interests of national economic policy. 
Authorisations 
Authorisations may be granted by the Commission in respect of some practices. The effect of an authorisation is to remove the prohibition that would otherwise apply by virtue of this legislation. Authorisations may be granted in respect of contracts, arrangements or understandings in restraint of trade or commerce - other than those fixing or controlling or providing for the fixing or controlling of the price of goods. Authorisations are also available for exclusive dealing and mergers. 
The Government has concluded that the impact of the legislation would be greatly lessened if provision were made for authorisations to be granted in respect of agreements fixing the prices of goods. These agreements are now generally recognised in many countries as being undesirable, particularly in times of inflation such as we are now experiencing. 
In his latest annual report the Commissioner of Trade Practices, in discussing experience with the case by case examination of price agreements under the existing Act, has said: 
The progress made would appear now to justify some direct prohibition of price agreement as well as resale price maintenance, thus moving away from case by case examination in what ought to be a relatively settled area. 
The Commissioner expressed his view that price agreements are very unlikely to be in the public interest. In the case of services, however, the Bill does not rule out the possibility of an authorisation for a price-fixing agreement. Traditionally in legislation of this kind restrictive practices relating to services have not been felt to merit quite the same degree of control as restrictive practices relating to the supply of goods. There is now an increasing concern with services, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in particular has urged member countries to strengthen their legislation in this regard. 
The Bill has been prepared on the general basis that restrictive practices relating to both goods and services are of concern. However, representations were made that a number of special considerations may apply to particular kinds of services and the Bill does not preclude applications for authorisation of pricefixing agreements with respect to services. 
It is essential that the Commission should be able to deal expeditiously with applications for authorisations. The Bill has been framed with this in mind. The Commission will not be required to hold a public hearing in respect of every application for an authorisation. It will be able to hold such a hearing where it considers it appropriate. 
If the Commission deals with an authorisation application without a public hearing, the relevant documents will be available for public inspection - subject to special provisions for the protection of confidential information. In all cases the Commission is to be required to take any submissions into account. The approach to be taken by the Commission in considering whether to grant an authorisation is indicated in sub-clause (5) of clause 90. The Commission is directed by that provision not to grant an authorisation unless it is satisfied that a specific and substantial benefit to the public is likely to result from the practice in question. The Commission is also required to be satisfied that, in all the circumstances, the benefit to the public justifies the granting of an authorisation. 
The position, therefore, is that the onus will be firmly on the applicant to satisfy the Commission that the granting of an authorisation is justified. Unless and until an authorisation is obtained in respect of a practice falling into one of the prohibited classes I have mentioned, such practice will be unlawful. The Bill recognises, however, that there is a need for special transitional provisions for a period immediately following the commencement of the legislation. The prohibitions of contracts in restraint of trade or commerce and exclusive dealing will not become effective until 4 months after the commencement date. During that period it will be possible for persons to apply to the Commission for authorisations in respect of those practices. As the Commission may find itself unable to give full consideration to the applications it receives in this period, provision is included to enable the grant of interim authorisations. An interim authorisation, if granted, will have the effect of permitting the practice to continue until the Commission, after full consideration, makes a final determination. 
I should make clear also that the Commission will not grant interim authorisations as a matter of course. Parties wishing to obtain such an authorisation in the 4-month period would be wise to lodge their applications as soon as possible after the commencement of the legislation.  (Extension of time granted).  The Commission will not be under any obligation to grant instantaneous interim authorisations to persons lodging applications near the end of the period. The Commission will be able to attach conditions to any authorisations, interim or final. Breach of such a condition will entitle the Commission to revoke the authorisation. Applications for authorisations for proposed mergers will, as with all other authorisation applications, be placed on a public register as soon as they are received by the Commission. This is necessary if the Commission is to take into account the views of other interested persons. Until there has been an opportunity for such persons to make their views known on a proposed merger, the Commission could not be expected to make a determination authorising the merger. This will not prevent parties to proposed mergers having prior informal and private discussions with the Commission. I would expect such discussions to be of considerable assistance to parties contemplating possible mergers, even though the informal guidance given by the Commission will not be binding upon it. 
The Bill also provides for clearances. The purpose of a clearance is to remove uncertainty as to the applicability of certain provisions, in contrast to the purpose of an authorisation, which is to permit a practice to be engaged in notwithstanding that it falls into a prohibited class. The provisions relating to enforcement and remedies in respect of breaches of the restrictive trade practices provisions are to be found in Part VI. The question whether there has been a breach of the law will be a matter for the court, as is the case with breaches of most other laws. Pending the establishment of the proposed Superior Court of Australia the only court with jurisdiction under the legislation will be the Australian Industrial Court. Such matters will not be determined by the Trade Practices Commission or the Trade Practices Tribunal, both of which are administrative bodies. 
A breach of a provision in the legislation with respect to restrictive trade practices will render the person liable to a pecuniary penalty, an injunction, or damages. Proceedings for a pecuniary penalty will need to be instituted by the Attorney-General or the Trade Practices Commission. The penalty, when received, will go into consolidated revenue. The amount of such a penalty will be a matter for the court to determine having regard to relevant matters including in particular those matters set out in clause 76. The circumstances can be expected to vary considerably from case to case and the penalty determined by the court can be expected to vary accordingly. The maximum penalty the court will be able to determine will be $250,000 in the case of a corporation and $50,000 in the case of a natural person. Such a penalty and the proceedings to recover it will be civil in character. A breach will not constitute an offence for the purposes of the criminal law and the penalty will not be a fine. 
The difference may at first appear to be only a matter of form but the important consequence is that such proceedings, involving business dealings to the extent that they do, will not find their way into a criminal court. Proceedings for an injunction will be able to be initiated by the Attorney-General, the Trade Practices Commission or by any other person. Proceedings for damages will be able to be initiated by any person who suffers loss or damage as a result of a contravention. Provision for certain classes of agreements and practices to be exempt from the legislation I have described is to be found in clause 51. This clause follows closely the corresponding provisions in the existing legislation. In addition there is a power similar to the one in the existing Act to exempt by regulation or ganisations concerned in the marketing of primary products. There is also power to provide exemptions by regulation for practices related to inter-governmental arrangements. 
The Consumer Protection Provisions 
The consumer protection provisions are to be found for the most part in Part V. Some of these provisions are expressly limited to transactions involving consumers. The meaning of a consumer is dealt with by sub-clause (3) of clause 4. A consumer is there defined to cover in general a person who acquires goods or services of a kind ordinarily acquired for private use or consumption. The definition does not cover a person when he acquires goods for the purposes of resupply. Nor does it cover a person who acquires services for a business. The consumer protection provisions do not necessarily displace State legislation in the same field. Clause 75 expressly states that Part V is not intended to exclude or limit the concurrent operation of any law of a State or territory. The Bill recognises that in many consumer protection matters there is a need for a national approach, and that the effectiveness of State laws is necessarily limited. 
Division 1 of the Part V prohibits a number of unfair practices. Clause 52 prohibits misleading or deceptive conduct - and does so in general terms. It is important that there should be such a provision if the law is not to be continually one step behind businessmen who resort to smart practices. Clause 52 overlaps the operation of some of the other more specific provisions. I point out in this connection that a breach of a specific provision exposes the person concerned to a penalty, whereas a breach of the more general provisions in clause 52 gives rise to a right to an injunction only. Clause 53 prohibits a number of specific forms of false representations with respect to goods and services. Clause 54 prohibits the offering of prizes in connection with the promotion of goods and services when there is no intention of actually providing the prizes. Clause 55 prohibits misleading conduct covered by the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property as revised at Stockholm on 14 July 1967. This Convention covers conduct that is liable to mislead the public as to the nature, the manufacturing process, the characteristics, the suitability for their purpose or the quantity of goods. Clause 55 does not come into operation until the Convention enters into force for Australia. I exepect that this will be soon. Clause 56 prohibits the practice known as bait advertising. This is the practice in accordance with which a bargain is advertised and in point of fact the bargain either does not exist or is available for a very short time only. The purpose of such advertising is mainly to attract a customer into a store. 
The practice of referral selling is prohibited by clause 57. This is the practice by which a supplier induces a customer to acquire goods or services by indicating that the consumer, after paying for the goods or services - and I stress that it is after such payment - will get rebates or commissions on subsequent sales by the supplier to other persons whose names are provided by the consumer or who view the work done for the consumer by the supplier. Clause 58 prohibits the acceptance of payment after an indication of intention to supply as ordered. Clause 59 prohibits the making of misleading statements about homeoperated businesses. Clause 60 prohibits coercive conduct by salesmen or debt collectors at a person's place of residence. Pyramid selling is a practice that has been a cause of much concern in recent years. This practice is prohibited by clause 61, which has been redrafted since the earlier Bill was passed by this House. I have already mentioned that the Bill will enable consumer standards to be prescribed and made mandatory. Provision is made in this connection for product safety standards and product information standards. A prescribed product safety standard will require compliance with safety standard requirements. A prescribed product information standard will require the disclosure of information relating to matters such as the performance, composition, contents, design, construction, finish or packaging of goods. The provisions relating to both kinds of standards are to be found in clauses 62 and 63. 
Clause 64 deals with the practice of unsolicited goods and unsolicited' directory entries. The clause prohibits the assertion of a right to payment for such goods or directory entries. This provision does not apply if the person against whom a right to payment for goods is asserted, ordinarily uses like goods in the course of his profession, business, trade or occupation. Under clause 65, a person who has received unsolicited goods is to be relieved of liability for loss or damage to the goods, other than loss or damage resulting from the doing by him of a wilful and unlaw ful act. Division 2 of Part V provides for a number of conditions and warranties designed to protect the consumer to apply and to be incapable of being excluded. These provisions are limited to consumer transactions. I have already referred to the limited meaning of 'consumer' under sub-clause (3) of clause 4. 
Clause 67 prevents the inclusion in consumer contracts of provisions rendering Australian law inapplicable to contracts, the proper law of which is otherwise Australian. Paragraph (b) of this clause prevents the substitution of provisions in the law of another country for provisions in Division 2. Clause 68 renders void a term of a consumer contract that purports to exclude, restrict or modify the application of Division 2. Clause 69 provides for certain conditions as to title encumbrances and quiet possession to be implied in every consumer contract. Clause 70 implies certain conditions in consumer contracts for the supply of goods by description. An amendment since the earlier Bill was before this House excludes the application of this clause to sales by auction or by competitive tender. Clause 71 implies certain undertakings in consumer contracts as to quality or fitness. Clause 72 implies certain conditions in consumer contracts for the supply of goods by reference to sample. A new clause 73 has been included to deal specifically with the rights of parties in hire purchase transactions. Clause 74 implies certain conditions in consumer contracts for the supply of services. 
Enforcement of Consumer Protection Provisions 
A contravention of a provision of Part V - other than the general provision in clause 52 - is to be an offence. The maximum penalty for such an offence is to be, in the case of a corporation, a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in the case of an individual, a fine not exceeding $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than 6 months (clause 79). Contraventions that can be regarded as excusable are the subject of special defences provided in clause 85. Provision for injunctions is included in clause 80. A right to recover damages is conferred by clause 82. 
I am indebted to the House. Apart from that right, clause 87(2) empowers the court, upon finding that there has been a contravention, to direct a refund of money or a payment to a person who has suffered loss or damage. The jurisdiction to deal with consumer protection proceedings under the Bill is to be confined initially to the Australian Industrial Court. This will assist the early development of a cohesive body of case law which might not be possible if, in the early stages of the operation of the legislation, courts of lower status - presided over by magistrates, for example - were to have jurisdiction. In due course it will be desirable to confer jurisdiction on such lower courts to deal with consumer protection matters. It will be desirable that the ready enforcement of rights under the legislation is facilitated in this way. A suitable opportunity to confer jurisdiction on courts of lower status will arise when the proposed Superior Court of Australia is established. I envisage that an amendment for the purpose will be effected at that time. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it will be apparent to honourable members that the Bill is of great importance. It represents a great advance in the areas of restrictive trade practices and consumer protection and attends to a wide variety of problems. This is intended to promote efficiency and competition in business, to reduce prices and to protect all Australians against unfair practices. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.19 to 8 p.m. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to establish the Superior Court of Australia. The Bill is, with minor variations to which I shall refer later, the same Bill as the Attorney-General introduced in the Senate in 1973 and again in April this year. The proposal to establish a Superior Court of Australia has now had a long history. The project was approved by the Menzies Government 10 years ago. It was brought by  Mr Justice  Bowen, when he was Attorney-General, to the stage of a Bill being introduced. That Bill was allowed to lapse, and at the end of 1972  Senator Greenwood  as Attorney-General announced that the project was being abandoned by the McMahon Government. 
The policy of the Labor Party on this matter has been one of consistent support for the establishment of the Superior Court. The Prime Minister's policy speech for the 1972 Federal elections contained a firm commitment to establish the Court. The Government believes that the areas of major Federal law should be administered by a Federal court established under legislation enacted by this Parliament, and should not be left to be administered in State courts. The Constitution established the High Court of Australia, and it empowered Parliament both to create other Federal courts and to invest the courts of the States with Federal jurisdiction. Extensive use has been made of the powers to invest State courts with Federal jurisdiction. In the 73 years since federation, Federal courts have been established to deal only with matters of bankruptcy and industrial law. Indeed, even in the bankruptcy field, the Federal Court of Bankruptcy sits only in Sydney and Melbourne, and- bankruptcy matters are dealt with by State courts in the other States. The Australian Industrial Court has come to be invested with a miscellany of jurisdiction in other matters in recent years. It has been given jurisdiction in certain matters under the Broadcasting and Television Act. It exercises jurisdiction under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. There are other matters. 
But with these exceptions, the laws made by this Parliament have been administered in State courts staffed by judges appointed by State governments. There has not been, as the present Attorney-General reminded the Senate in 1972 in speaking to the announcement that the then Government would not proceed with the Superior Court, any real opportunity Tor this Parliament to examine,, so far as it may be proper for the Parliament to do so, the manner in which these laws have been so administered. Of course the courts have not distinguished between Federal and State law, and litigants in Federal actions have not suffered any disadvantage or enjoyed any advantage over litigants in State actions. It has been put forward as one of the virtues of the present system, that a State court does not generally need to inquire whether the matter before it is a Federal or State action. Problems of limits of jurisdictions and of power to deal with a particular matter have thus been avoided. 
There are targe areas of jurisdiction where there are undoubtedly many matters of a specialised nature falling within federal jurisdiction. Bankruptcy is a case in point; so too are taxation, trade practices, family law, industrial property and a wide range of matters arising out of laws made by this Parliament. It is proper that the Australian Government should be able to be sued and to sue in its own courts. More important still, the decisions of Australian Ministers and officials should be subject to review, so far as it is proper for courts to do so, and to judicial supervision by a court able to build up expertise in the field of administrative law. Judicial review of administrative action will become a very significant part of the jurisdiction of the new Court as the Government proceeds with other plans to establish administrative appeals tribunals and to simplify and extend the procedures for judicial review. 
One significant consequence of Federal law being administered in State courts is that this Parliament is thereby excluded in practice from considering reforms in an important area of the law, that of practice and procedure. The practice and procedure of the courts has a substantial effect on the rights of individuals. That effect may result from the delays caused by archaic procedures, from the costs involved, or from the manner in which judgments of the courts are executed. The present system also allows the rights of a person under Federal law to vary from one State to another. For example, whether he has a right of appeal and what form that appeal may take, or whether there is a right to a jury in a civil matter, may depend on the State in which the action is brought. 
When the Bill was before the Senate earlier this year, it was opposed by the Opposition on grounds that had been put forward for a number of years by opponents of the Superior Court proposal. It has been said that the new Court would lead to additional litigation because of the problems in determining whether cases before the Court were matters of Federal jurisdiction or not, that there ought only to be a single system of courts in Australia, which should be the State courts, that the creation of the new Court would detract from the status of the State Supreme Courts and that there are not enough lawyers of ability in Australia to provide judges for a new federal court as well as for the existing State courts. All of these arguments have been carefully considered by the Government. The Government believes that, notwithstanding the constitutional difficulties that may arise in determining the limits of jurisdiction of the new Court, the advantages to be derived from establishing a Federal court of unlimited jurisdiction are far greater than the disadvantages. Moreover, the Government believes that far too much has been made of the argument that there would be jurisdictional problems arising in matters before the new Court. There are fringe areas where these problems will arise, but these fringe areas will not affect the main bulk of the important jurisdiction that the new Court will exercise. In the case of matters now dealt with by the Australian Industrial Court, the Bankruptcy Court and the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and in matters arising under laws made by the Parliament, such as taxation, trade practices, matrimonial causes and the like, there will be few if any occasions when jurisdictional problems are likely to provide difficulties to the litigant before the new Court. 
That the Bill would result in some jurisdiction passing from State Supreme Courts to the proposed Superior Court is undeniable. However, the answer to the essential question whether there should be a court created by the Australian Parliament under its constitutional power to deal authoritatively on an Australia-wide basis with questions of Federal law cannot be determined by reference to the prestige and status of State Supreme Courts. Nor does the Government believe that there will be any problem in finding lawyers of adequate calibre to staff the new Court. The new Court should not, of itself, result in a demand for many additional judges. There are already 16 judges appointed to the courts which are to be replaced by the new Court. The taking over of family law jurisdiction now exercised by the State Supreme Courts under the federal legislation should not of itself increase the total number of judges required to administer that jurisdiction. I would emphasise that the placing of the family law jurisdiction in a special division of the Superior Court will permit the appointment as judges of that division of lawyers who are particularly qualified to exercise jurisdiction in family law matters. This will permit appointments to be drawn from a wider field than has hitherto been the case with appointments to the State Supreme Courts. 
The proposal for the Superior Court was originally put forward by the present Chief Justice of Australia when he was AttorneyGeneral and the justification for setting up the Court rested largely on the need to relieve the High Court of most of its single justice original jurisdiction. The High Court would thus concentrate on its task of interpreting the Constitution and acting as the ultimate court of appeal within Australia. There were then substantial arrears of work in the High Court, but this has been remedied. I have already indicated the Government's view that the justification for establishing the Superior Court does not rest entirely on the circumstantial foundation of the work load on the High Court at any particular time. Nevertheless, the original justification remains valid, notwithstanding that there may now be no particular burden of original jurisdiction, other than in constitutional matters. The High Court will be left free to continue its great work as a constitutional and appeals court. In much the same way, the Superior Court can become a great trials court in Federal matters. 
I turn now to a general description of the Superior Court Bill. The Superior Court would absorb the jurisdiction of the Federal Court of Bankruptcy and the Australian Industrial Court. The Bill would not automatically abolish those courts. They would, except in respect of pending matters, continue without jurisdiction, until such time as there are by resignation, retirement or otherwise, no longer any judges of those courts. To continue those courts until then avoids any constitutional problem that might attend upon the abolition of a court created by the Parliament while there are still judges of that court. 
It should be made clear that the Superior Court would continue to exercise the jurisdiction of the Industrial Court under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in the same way as the Industrial Court. In those cases in which the Conciliation and Arbitration Act requires a matter to be heard before a bench of 3 judges, the Superior Court would be constituted by a bench of 3 judges. There would be no appeal to the High Court from the decisions of the Superior Court in those matters in which there is now no appeal to the High Court from the Industrial Court. 
The original jurisdiction that the Superior Court will exercise is to be determined in two ways. In the first place, clause 19 of the Bill sets out a list of matters in which the Court will have original jurisdiction. Broadly speaking, this list corresponds with the list of matters of federal jurisdiction specified in the Constitution itself. It will be noted from subclause 19 (2), however, that the Court will not have jurisdiction in cases where a State is a party except with the consent of the parties to the action. 
In the second place, jurisdiction in particular matters will be specifically conferred on the new Court under particular laws made by the Parliament. Thus, for example, this Bill would specifically confer jurisdiction on the new Court under the Matrimonial Causes Act and under a number of o!&lt;cr statutes. 
Under the Constitution, the Parliament is empowered to invest State courts with federal jurisdiction. State courts have in fact been invested with jurisdiction in most of the matters coming within federal jurisdiction under the Constitution. This has the result that in respect of most of the matters specified in sub-clause 19 (1) of the Bill the Superior Court will have a concurrent jurisdiction with that of the State Supreme Courts. I have earlier referred to the jurisdictional difficulties which have been alleged as a reason for opposing the creation of the Superior Court. So that those difficulties can be confined to as few cases as possible, the Bill has been so drafted as to make the jurisdiction of the 
Superior Court concurrent with the existing federal jurisdiction of State Supreme Court's except with respect to those matters where it seems unlikely that any problem of defining the limits of federal jurisdiction will arise. This approach has the consequence that, in a case where there is a real doubt whether the matter is one of federal jurisdiction or not, it can be commenced in a State Supreme Court instead of in the Superior Court. 
It is proposed that the new Court would take over the original jurisdiction now exercised by the High Court under laws made by the Parliament, except for some few cases where, in the nature of the jurisdiction, it seems appropriate for the High Court to continue to exercise it. For example, it is not proposed that the jurisdiction of the High Court as a Court of Disputed Returns under the Electoral Act should be transferred to the Superior Court. It is not, of course, constitutionally possible to divest the High Court of the jurisdiction conferred on it directly by the Constitution. In such matters, the Superior Court would exercise a jurisdiction concurrent with that of the High Court, but it may be expected that, for the greater part, actions would be instituted in the Superior Court rather than in the High Court. With the proposal that the High Court should sit only in Canberra, its exercise of original jurisdiction in all but the most important matters will become relatively inaccessible to litigants residing in the States. The Superior Court, with judges located in each State, would be readily accessible throughout Australia. As facilities become available, it is contemplated that the Court might sit in major provincial centres in each State. 
The matters to which I have so far referred follow broadly what was proposed in 1968 by the then Attorney-General. The present Bill departs from what was then proposed in a number of important respects. 
In the first place, this Bill approaches the jurisdiction of the Superior Court differently from the 1968 Bill. The 1968 Bill did not attempt to specify the matters arising under existing statute law in respect of which the Superior Court would have jurisdiction. It was intended that jurisdiction would be conferred on the Superior Court in these matters by amending the individual Acts of Parliament. Thus it was not possible to tell from a reading of the 1968 Bill what would have been the extent of the Superior Court jurisdiction under the existing law. The present Bill, however, seeks to spell out the whole extent of the jurisdiction the Superior Court is to have under the existing law. 
Secondly, the present Bill would constitute a Full Court of the Superior Court as a court of appeal from decisions given by single judges of the Superior Court in the exercise of its original jurisdiction. Under the 1968 Bill an appeal would have lain directly from a single judge of the Superior Court to the High Court. Only in personal injury cases would there have been an internal appeal to a Full Court of the Superior Court under that Bill. The present Bill also provides for an appeal from the Full Court of the Superior Court to the High Court, but only by leave of the High Court or of the Full Court of the Superior Court. As already indicated, an exception to this system of appeals is to be found in matters now within the jurisdiction of the Industrial Court under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The establishment of this internal appeal system will help to ensure uniformity of interpretation of the law by the Court throughout Australia. 
Thirdly, it is now proposed that the Superior Court should take over the jurisdiction presently exercised by the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Under the 1968 Bill those courts would have been left intact and the Superior Court would have been a court of appeal from those courts. 
A significant part of the jurisdiction now exercised by the Supreme Courts of those 2 Territories would be exercised by the Superior Court when established. For example, divorce proceedings, bankruptcy proceedings in the case of the Northern Territory Supreme Court, and actions by and against the Australian Government or its officers in the Territories would be instituted in the Superior Court instead of the Supreme Courts. 
With the development of national legislation in new fields such as consumer protection and companies in which jurisdiction would be exercised by the Superior Court, there will be further erosion of the jurisdiction of the Territory Supreme Courts. They will be left with the major part of their jurisdiction at a level which is vested in District or County Courts in the States. The logical development in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory would, therefore, be to invest the Superior Court with a general Territory jurisdiction and to establish an Intermediate Court to exercise jurisdiction in the Terri tories in most criminal and lower level civil matters. Ultimately, the Supreme Courts would disappear, leaving 3 levels of original jurisdiction in each Territory, namely, Court of Petty Sessions, Intermediate Court and Superior Court. 
Because the Superior Court will be a federal court for the purposes of section 5SB of the Judiciary Act a legal practitioner admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of any State or Territory would be entitled to practise before the Supreme Court in its Territory jurisdiction. This will make it necessary to review the present arrangements regulating the legal profession in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The Bill proposes, therefore, in subclauses 33 (3) and 34 (3) that the Supreme Courts of the 2 Territories should continue for the present to exercise jurisdiction in matters relating to the admission to practice in the 2 Territories and in the control of legal practitioners admitted to practice before the Territory Supreme Courts. 
Fourthly, the Bill provides for the Superior Court to be organised on a District basis for administrative purposes. It provides for the appointment of Chief Judges in charge of a District or Districts of the Court. The Bill would create the Districts of the Australian Capital Territory and of the Northern Territory, for the purpose of the Court exercising on a geographical basis the jurisdiction now exercised in the 2 Territories by the respective Supreme Courts. The Bill also provides for other Districts to be created by regulation. 
For the purpose of exercising its jurisdiction, there are to be 6 Divisions of the Court, instead of 2 Divisions as in the 1968 Bill. These 6 Divisions, which are specified in clause 13 of the Bill, correspond to the principal aspects of jurisdiction to be exercised by the Court. Jurisdiction in a Division will be exercised normally by judges assigned to that Division. There will be a Chief Judge of the Industrial Division, who will administer matters relating to the exercise of the industrial jurisdiction of the Court. This provision is made having regard to the special nature of that jurisdiction, and to the fact that the Court would be, as already described, constituted in the same way as the Industrial Court for the exercise of that jurisdiction. Provision is made for the appointment of Chief Judges and Senior Judges in the other 
Divisions of the Court, and for the appointment of Chief Judges for the Districts of the Court. The provision for the appointment of Chief Judges of Divisions other than the Industrial Division was not included in the Bill previously introduced into the Senate. It is also convenient to mention at this point that the Bill now contains provisions enabling separate registries for separate Divisions of the Court to be established. 
Fifthly, the Bill provides for the practice and procedure of the Court to be prescribed by regulations, but the regulations so made may not remain in force beyond 30 June 1975. Except where regulations otherwise provide, the practice and procedure of the Court would continue to be regulated by existing provisions applicable to the particular jurisdiction being exercised. For example, until regulations made under the Bill otherwise provide, the practice and procedure in bankruptcy matters would be that now applicable to the Federal Court of Bankruptcy. 
It has been common practice for rules relating to the practice and procedure of a Court to be made by the judges of that Court. Exceptions to this are found in the Federal Court of Bankruptcy and the Australian Industrial Court, and in the practice and procedure under the Matrimonial Causes Act. In each case, the practice and procedure is dealt with by regulation and not by rules made by the judges. A good deal of what is covered by practice and procedure affects substantive rights, so that the judges, in making rules relating to these matters, are in effect legislating. 
To leave practice and procedure to be prescribed by regulation may be thought to run counter to the principle that the courts should be independent of the executive Government of the day, especially in a court such as this where the Australian Government would be a litigant. Accordingly, it is intended that practice and procedure should ultimately be dealt with by Act of Parliament. The provision for regulations to deal with practice and procedure until 30 June 1975 is to enable legislation embodying a code of practice and procedure to be drawn up and submitted to the Parliament. 
Clause 2 of the Bill provides for the Act to come into operation on the day on which it is assented to. The Superior Court would not, however, commence to exercise jurisdic tion until a date to be proclaimed. This will enable judges and officers of the Court to be appointed, regulations dealing with the practice and procedure of the Court to be drawn up, accommodation to be provided and other necessary administrative matters to be dealt with before the Court commences to exercise jurisdiction. Obviously the most important appointment will be that of Chief Justice. It is contemplated that, if the Bill is passed by Parliament, an early appointment of Chief Justice will be made to enable the first Chief Justice to participate in the considerable task of organising the necessary administrative arrangements. 
The Bill has been so drafted that the various aspects of the jurisdiction of the Court may be commenced on different dates. The general original Federal jurisdiction and the general appellate jurisdiction of the Court, which would be conferred by clauses 19 and 21 of the Bill, would commence on the date fixed by proclamation as the date on which the Court commences to exercise its jurisdiction. 
Different dates may be set for the transfer of jurisdiction from the existing courts, and for the Superior Court to commence to exercise jurisdiction in matrimonial causes matters and taxation appeals. It is intended that ultimately the matrimonial causes jurisdiction of the Superior Court will be exclusive to that Court and State courts will not exercise jurisdiction under that Act. Sub-clause (5) of clause 20 provides for a gradual phasing-in of the exclusive matrimonial causes jurisdiction of the Superior Court. Different dates may be fixed in respect of different States, or even of different parts of the same State. 
These provisions have been designed to permit flexibility in the transfer of jurisdiction to the new Court. It may be possible to transfer the jurisdiction of the existing Federal Courts and the Supreme Courts of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory at the same time and on the date on which the Court is empowered to begin the exercise of its general original and appellate jurisdiction. The Government would hope that this would be so and that it will prove to be administratively possible for the Court to commence to exercise its full range of jurisdiction at the earliest possible date.. 
I indicated earlier in my speech that this Bill differs in some minor ways from the Bills the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  introduced in the Senate last year and again earlier this year. In addition to the matter concerning the appointment of Chief Judges that I have already mentioned, the main differences are that the court's jurisdiction in a particular district would no longer be required, as a general rule, to be exercised by a judge of that district, provision is made to enable bankruptcy proceedings pending in State courts to be transferred to the Superior Court of Australia, and there would be transferred to the Superior Court the jurisdiction of State and Territory Supreme Courts under section 92 of the Marriage Act. Also, jurisdiction under certain provisions of the Customs Act, the National Health Act and the Post and Telegraph Act would not be transferred to the Superior Court, as consideration is being given to vesting jurisdiction under those provisions in the new Administrative Review Tribunal to be established by separate legislation. 
The Bill will not abolish forthwith any of the Courts from which jurisdiction is to be transferred. I have already explained that the Territory Supreme Courts will continue to exercise jurisdiction in relation to legal practitioners until the laws relating to the legal profession in the 2 Territories have been reviewed. The Federal Court of Bankruptcy and the Australian Industrial Court will be left only with jurisdiction in pending matters. The courts will not be abolished while any of the present judges of those courts continue to hold office in those courts. The Bill provides that each of the 4 courts concerned may be abolished on a date to be fixed by proclamation, but not while there are judges who continue to hold appointments to those courts. 
With the inevitable expansion of the legislation of this Australian Parliament, the Superior Court will play an important part in the judicial life of Australia. The Government hopes it will have a significant jurisdiction in defining civil liberties under the Human Rights and Racial Discrimination Bills which the Parliament will also be considering. With the implementation of the policies of the present Government and the establishment of more effective procedures for judicial review, the Superior Court will have an important part to play in the relationship between the individual citizen and the Executive Government. I am confident that the Court will achieve considerable stature, and will be subordinate only to the High Court as the interpreter of Federal law in Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to amend the Statute Law Revision Act 1973. Honourable members will probably recall that, when introducing the Bill for that Act in December last year, I referred to it as a preliminary step in the Government's program of publishing a consolidation of the Acts passed by the Australian Parliament as in force on 31 December 1973. 
Work on the consolidated reprint is now well in hand and has disclosed some further defects and matters suitable for statute law revision in a number of the Acts to be reprinted, as well as some defects in the Statute Law Revision Act 1973 itself. Although the defects are largely of a formal or technical nature, they do give rise to problems in the preparation of the reprint and it is desirable that they be corrected as soon as possible. The Bill now before the House seeks to make the necessary alterations, so that work on the reprint may be facilitated. 
The Bill contains three main provisions apart from the amendments set out in the Schedules. Firstly, it provides, in effect, that the amendments made by the Bill are to be deemed to have been made on 31 December 1973, the date of commencement of the Statute Law Revision Act 1973, thus enabling the amendments to be incorporated in the reprint. Secondly, certain amendments that were wrongly made by the Statute Law Revision Act 1973 are rendered ineffective, so as to enable the amendments to be correctly made by the Bill. 
Lastly, the Government Printer is required by the terms of the Amendments Incorporation Act 1905-1973 to include in a reprint of an Act a reference to the enactment by which each amendment is made. This would technically require the Printer to make numerous references, in a rather cumbersome form, to the Statute Law Revision Act 1973 as amended by the present Bill. Clause 8 of the Bill will make references simply to the Statute Law Revision Act 1973 sufficient. 
As honourable members will perceive, the Bill deals only with matters of formal statute law revision and does not deal with any matter of substance. I commend the Bill to the House and hope that honourable members will support its speedy passage. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
The responsibility for the administration of the Structural Adjustment Board is with the Minister for Overseas Trade, not with the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, but I am happy to tell the House that a number of steps have been taken to make known the facilities that the Government hus now set up to be available to people who are affected when resources move from one aspect of industry, from one industry or from one part of an industry to another. Those resources may be on the management side, the capital side or the employee side. In general terms they can be said to be on the management side - such as guaranteed loans, consultancy grants up to 810,000, closure compensation and other measures. 
An individual employee affected in that way may receive payment of his or her earnings for the previous 6 months for another period of 6 months, up to a sum of one and a half times average weekly earnings. That would be about SI 80 at present. The scheme as it relates to those people is administered by the 
Minister for Labor and Immigration. I know that my colleague, the Minister for Overseas Trade, has made a number of statements on this scheme. I have made a number of statements giving it wide publicity. I have spoken to industrialists, management and trade unions, making it as well known as possible. I know that my colleague, the Minister for Labor and Immigration, has done the same. But, as recently as yesterday, in order to avoid the possibility that some people still are not getting the message that these very advantageous facilities are now available, my Department took steps to insert in many newspapers throughout Australia advertisements making known to both management and employees the additional services. This is something quite novel for Australia and it is one of the most imaginative steps this Government has taken. There have always been movements from one industry to another or from one part of an industry to another but there has been little attempt, certainly under the previous Government, to cushion the hardship that sometimes has been felt. This Government has taken very strong and firm steps to cushion the effects of the process that always takes place. I think that answer might assist the honourable member. 
For the information of honourable members I present annual reports for 1972-73 of the following research and development establishments: Aeronautical Research Laboratories; Central Studies Establishment; Defence Standards Laboratories; Weapons Research Establishment. 
Pursuant to section 168 of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971-1973 I present the seventh annual report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices with respect to his operations during the year ended 30 June 1974. 
In reply - The eloquence of some of the contributions to the debate demands a short reply, it seems to me. May I say at the outset that the Government welcomes the support given to this legislation by the LiberalCountry Party Opposition. May I say also that I personally welcome the support given to the measure by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  I hope that this support for this measure is an indication of good things to come, although I do not expect that we will always find the same degree of agreement from the honourable member in relation to other matters. We all welcome the contribution made by the hon ourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  The degree of mobility of people who offend against the laws of some country and then flee to another country is increasing greatly in the world today. The world is in a transitional stage. 
I do not claim for one moment, and I do not think the Government claims - indeed, it cannot - that this measure provides all the protection for which the honourable member for Hunter asks. The honourable member raised many points. But the measure is a small step towards achieving something that was expressed many years ago by a prominent American politician of the 1940s - a man called Wendell Wilkie - who spoke in book form and in other forms of one world. 1 think it is an indication of the enclosing of the world in a smaller compass, brought about by improved transport and communications, that measures of this sort are now desirable, so that when a person flees from justice or from the jurisdiction of one particular country he is, in one way or another, more likely to be caught and brought before justice pursuant to legislation of this sort and agreements in the form of treaties. I welcome the support of the Opposition for this measure. We hope that when the legislation becomes law it can bring about the results we are all seeking. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 in reply - The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  indicated that in the Committee stage of the Bill certain amendments would be moved. The difficulty that the Government has with this proposition is that the amendments have nothing at all to do with the measure before the House. 
We are debating the Statute Law Revision Bill and, as my honourable friend said, the community, the society as a whole, Australia, has a great need of law reform of this sort. The last consolidation of the Commonwealth statutes of the Australian statutes - call them what you will - was as long ago as 1950, and they are hopelessly out of date. Although it is not my wish to be unnecessarily political in this debate, I think it is to the discredit of the previous Government that for so long it did nothing about remedying that very bad situation. 
Lawyers know how difficult it is to find the law. If I look at the volumes of Commonwealth statutes which almost cover the table in front of me I find that all except perhaps five or six are supplements that follow the consolidation in 1950. Every one of them is different. I look to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  a man who comes to this House with some experience in these matters. He knows how difficult and time consuming it is to find the law. Lawyers have to charge for their time and they pass the cost on to their clients who often would rather not have to pay the bill. From 1950 to 1974 nothing has been done. This Government seeks to consolidate the statutes and reduce all those books to eleven. It is a major effort; it is an ambitious effort. It will greatly simplify the task of lawyers in the job they have of finding the law and giving advice on it. Anything that defers or delays this measure is to be regretted. 
I have had my attention drawn to an answer given in the Senate by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  to a question on this subject by  Senator Brown.  He said, in part, that he was given to understand that the first volume of the consolidation would be available not later than 9 September this year and that other volumes would be published at approximately monthly intervals, the last volume being scheduled to be available not later than July next year. This very important but not widely known task of advising on the law is a matter of considerable priority, and the Government has some pleasure and pride in the steps that have been taken by the Attorney-General to bring about improvement. Yet the Opposition takes the view that this is an opportunity not to amend this Bill but to amend the Public Service Act. I can understand the tactics of politicians who want to do this or that, but I suggest with great respect to all the honourable members as- sembled opposite that it is not a proper use of the time of this House to try to move an amendment to the Statute Law Revision Bill which seeks to consolidate into 11 volumes all the books in which the law is to be found at the moment. 
The Opposition says: 'Here we can put in a little point, take up some time, score, and move something about which the Government feels differently, that is, whether Australian public servants should be required, obliged, compelled to take an oath or an affirmation.' This was debated at some length in this House back in December. I was in charge of the Bill at that time. This House declared its will and its intentions on the subject. It is true that in the Senate there were discussions because at that time the Senate was sitting and this House was not sitting. I understand that the AttorneyGeneral gave some undertaking that an opportunity would be presented for further discussion on it in the Parliament. That is proper. But we all know the things that have happened in that time since 13 December 1973, before the Parliament rose. The Opposition parties pulled on, forced, what some would call a very irresponsible election. It has been described in many places as an expensive and unnecessary waste of public funds. This Government was returned to office. 
Certainly not necessary. Three months have gone by, and the Parliament has been sitting again for only 2 weeks. Here in the House of Representatives the Government has brought in a Bill to facilitate the consolidation of all that law - that unnecessarily extensive law - into 1 1 volumes, and the Opposition says: 'Because it involves, as it must, amendments, schedules to Acts, renaming Acts, bringing them all together into 11 books, here is our chance to amend in a rather odd way another Act about which the Government feels differently.' This is probably not the occasion to make this point; it would probably be better made in Committee: One does not know whether to be serious or to laugh at the point of substance chosen by the Opposition. The very notion that in this day and age service depends upon an obligation sworn before the deity, or affirmed, is to my mind ridiculous. I grew up in this country. I believe that I am in the mainstream of Australian thinking. I think of all the examples where service is given and given well. Do we ask lawyers, doctors or nurses, or people in whatever occupation or profession one thinks of, to swear that they will do their best or else be struck down dead? No, we do not. In the British civil service it is not expected. In the State public services in Australia it is not done. 
Some honourable members on the other side of the House, because of their innate conservatism do not seem to be able to rid themselves of this pattern of thought. 
It is very enjoyable,  Mr Speaker.  I put this to honourable members opposite in a non-party way: Why do they insist that the public servants who served them well and who serve the Government well - people who are apolitical inasmuch as anybody can be apolitical, people who are dedicated through a sense of professionalism or skill .born of training, education and dedication - take a bible into their hands and swear upon it? 
 Why is it necessary? I was told a story of a typist who was required to do it. Why is it necessary to have a typist take an oath? Would honourable members require her to do it if they were employing her themselves? We are trying to introduce a little rationality into this world, and I suggest that rationality goes with a proper appreciation of employer-employee relationships, a sense of mutual understanding of the obligations on both sides based upon reason and an understanding of the job that both sides have to do. 
And the law, as my friend the Minister for Health says, because the law is in the Public Service Act. It matters not whether one believes or does not believe. It is not necessary to make it a condition of employment that people go through this little ritual. This is a small matter. I accept that. 
I am not making a fuss. These amendments were introduced not by us but by the honourable member's side. The present law became the law last year and the Opposition seeks to change it. So who is making the fuss? Those are the only points I wish to make. We are glad to have the support of the Opposition for the measure, notwithstanding that the Opposition is exploiting the situation by trying to move this amendment to the Public Service Act as part of a process of amending the Statute Law Revision Act. The other remarks I will leave to the Committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
We have surely seen one of the most flagrant abuses of the procedures of this Parliament - certainly in the time that I have been here. One can be tolerant in an understanding way of my good friend, the honourable member for Went- worth  (Mr Ellicott)  because this was his second or his third speech in this House. 
But the remarks of the honourable member for Wentworth who is new to this chamber - I say this with great respect to him - make it obvious that he has been set up by his colleagues. 
Do you not! We saw the best example of it during the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  who is not a member of the same party as my friend, the honourable member for Wentworth. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party spoke of amendments that members of the Opposition are not going to move. What could be a more flagrant breach of the Standing Orders than that? There is not to be found anywhere in the schedules of this Bill we are supposed to be debating a reference to the Public Service Act at which these amendments - the amendments that are not to be moved - are supposed to be directed. The amendments that are not to be moved are not to be found in the Bill about which we are talking. How often can one say that to illustrate the waste of time which the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party has put our new friend and colleague, the honourable member for Wentworth, up to? 
I am sure that the honourable member will, in time. The amendment sheet circulated by the honourable member for Wentworth is headed 'Amendment to Statute Law Revision Bill'. It does not appreciate and makes no reference to the fact that the Bill before this House is retrospective to 31 December 1973 because the law that the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party talks about was made then and a lot of people have come into the Public Service since that time. If this proposed amendment which has not been moved- 
I am staying on the amendments that are not to be moved,  Mr Chairman. 
The amendments would render invalid the appointment of every public servant who had not taken an oath or an affirmation and who joined the Public Service after 31 December 1973. 
I am trying to bring the debate to an end. 
I will do that in a moment. Where is the Deputy Leader of the Country Party? 
Have we ever seen a greater waste of the time of this Committee? 
I am talking about amendments that are not to be moved, which are. clearly out of order, and which have taken up the time of the Committee. 
Through you,  Mr Chairman,  may I ask the Committee how it came about that these amendments that are not to be moved and which have been associated with innuendo and attack- 
I accept your suggestion,  Mr Chairman.  But may I put 2 points, because the debate in the Committee stage is concerned with these non-existent amendments? I appreciate that it is a fictitious situation 
During the Committee stage of this Bill, one must grapple with this phantom. Let us look at the phantom which would disqualify many public servants who are already in the Service. It is not in the proper statutory form. 
It does not even deal with the citation of the Public Service Act. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 in reply - It is an occasion for some remarks in reply to my good friend, because we have been friends for many years- 
And we will remain friends. I meant no offence to him- 
You will draw your own conclusion from my remarks. 
I have read, as I imagine many honourable members have read, reports of allegations of an improper association between the New South Wales Government and Parkes Development Pty Ltd. It should be said that governments - whether they be State governments or Federal governments - should at all times be above suspicion of that sort and should appear to be above suspicion. One would think that when allegations are made by apparently responsible people, like the report from the  President  of the Sutherland Shire Council, they demand an answer and an investigation. In answer to the honourable member's question, this Government can do nothing about the matter. It is completely outside our ken. 
As the honourable member would know, there will be a debate on one aspect of this subject later in the day. I do not agree with the criticism. There can be no incompatibility between the role of the Industries Assistance Commission and the proposed legislation dealing with restrictive trade practices. The Government's policies in this regard are well known. The Government hopes to facilitate the use of Australian resources in the most economic and efficient way in which they can be used. That involves the Industries Assistance Commission advising us and giving us recommendations that will produce that result if we accept the advice and as we give effect to it. The Industries Assistance Commission is in fact charged, as I remember it, with taking into account the need to have compatibility between the Government's trade policies and the Government's protection policies. As is well known the restrictive trade practices legislation is designed to ensure that industries that are efficient do in fact compete with each other and that the competition produces in itself a better and more economic allocation of resources. So the 2 roles, the one of the restrictive trade practices legislation and the other of the Industries Assistance Commission, are completely compatible. 
The honourable member's concern about the situation that has existed in the Government's defence factories for some time is well known. The diminution in the workload coming from the defence factor has posed a problem for the Government's defence factories. If they were completely dependent upon defence work that problem would continue . because, from all accounts, the overseas situation as far as the defence of this country is concerned remains good. The long term solution surely depends upon the finding of a non-defence type of work for them to do. The Department has been particularly active in seeking out that sort of work. I have been involved in the making of a number of public statements to that effect and they have produced a good response from the private sector of manufacturing industry generally. An increasing number of inquiries have been put to us as to whether we can do work for the private sector on a contract basis. That is very reassuring. 
The Government is also investigating, and studying the relationship that exists between the Government's defence factories and other Government departments when their procurement policies come into operation. The recent report of the Scott Committee - the Comittee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy - had things to say on that aspect. As far as the most recent problem is concerned, the Government recently reconstituted the Committee to investigate the medium and long term problems of obtaining non-defence work for the factories. Because the question is without notice I do not have with me in the House today the names of the gentlemen who make up the Committee, but they are departmental officers, trade union representatives and also representatives of private industry. It is my hope that they will pursue this task vigorously and that I will have a report in the very near future. 
 The Government has not had an opportunity to look at these amendments at length. The Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  and I have had the amendments forless than an hour. However, I indicate that they do require further consideration and the Government will be opposing them at this stage, certainly the amendments relating to Part V. Some of the amendments obviously do require much more consideration. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 3 to 6  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
There is hereby established a Trade Practices Commission, which shall consist of a Chairman and such number of other members as are from time to time appointed in accordance with this Act. 
The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Governor-General. 
A member of the Commission other than the  Chairman  may be appointed as a full-time member or as a part-time member. 
For the purposes of sub-sections 4 (3a) and (4) of the  Superannuation Act  1922-1973 the Chair man and the full-time members of the Commission shall each be deemed to be required, by the terms of his appointment, to give the whole of his time to the duties of his office. 
 For the reason I indicated before, the Government will oppose the amendment at this stage although the amendment obviously does require further consideration. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 18 . to 28- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 29. 
The Attorney-General may give directions to the Commission in connexion with the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers under this Act other than its functions and powers under Part VII, and the Commission shall comply with any directions so given. 
Any direction given to the Commission under sub-section (1) shall be in writing and the AttorneyGeneral shall cause a copy of the direction to be published in the Gazette as soon as practicable after the direction is given. 
 The Government cannot accept the amendment and will oppose it. It is well known that this provision in the Bill relates only to matters of priority and not to anything of a judicatory nature. There could be no harm done by or misgivings about this provision, as was suggested by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott). 
Yes. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 30 to 39  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 40. 
When a member of the Tribunal, other than a presidential member, is informed by the  President  that the  President  proposes that the member shall be a member of a Division of the Tribunal in any proceedings, the member shall, to the best of his knowledge, disclose to the  President  any direct or indirect pecuniary interest that the member has in any business carried on in Australia, or in any body corporate carrying on any such business, being an interest that could be in conflict with his duties as a member of the Tribunal in those proceedings. 
 For the reasons I have given, the Government opposes the amendment at this stage although what the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  proposes does have appeal to me. However, it will have to be considered in another place. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 41 to 44  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 45 
A contract in restraint of trade or commerce that was made before the commencement of this sub-section is. unenforceable in so far as it confers rights or benefits or imposes duties or obligations on a corporation. 
A corporation shall not - 
make a contract or arrangement, or enter into an understanding, in restraint of trade or commerce; or 
give effect to a contract, arrangement or understanding that is in restraint of trade or commerce, whether the contract or arrangement was made or the understanding was entered into before or after the commencement of this sub-section. 
A contract, arrangement or understanding is not in restraint of trade or commerce for the purposes of this Act if the restraint has such a slight effect on competition between the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding and on competition between those parties, or any of them, and other persons as to be insignificant. 
The Government opposes the amendments, particularly the one dealing with the amendment to sub-clause (3). We take the view that the amendment would bring about a substantial diminution of the purpose that is sought to be achieved by the legislation, and for that reason it is bad. To restrict the provision only to significant effects on competition would be to lessen the purpose of what we are trying to achieve. On the question of the separability of the restraint provisions and the proposed amendment to sub-clause (1), the Government has taken the view that the common law is sufficiently firm on the point. 'The clause will be given further consideration. However, we oppose the amendment at this stage. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 46. 
A corporation that is in a position substantially to control a market for goods or services shall not take advantage of the power in relation to that market that it has by virtue of being in that position - 
to eliminate or substantially to damage a competitor in that market or in another market; 
to prevent the entry of a person into that market or into another market; or 
to deter or prevent a person from engaging in competitive behaviour in that market or in another market. 
For the purposes of this section, a corporation shall be deemed to be in a position substantially to control a market for goods or services if that corporation and any related corporation or related corporations are together in a position substantially to control that market. 
 The Government opposes the amendments. The addition of the word 'wilfully' would impose a limitation on the behaviour that is sought to be made accountable. Of course there are difficulties always, as anyone who practices in the courts knows, about establishing a state of mind, especially as to the wilfulness of a corporation which can act only through servants. For that reason and for others, the Government opposes the measure. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 47. 
Subject to this section, a corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, engage in the practice of exclusive dealing. 
A corporation engages in the practice of exclusive dealing if the corporation - 
Sub-section (1) does not apply to the practice of exclusive dealing constituted by a corporation engaging in conduct of a kind referred to in subsection (2) unless the engaging by the corporation in that conduct is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods or services. 
The Government opposes the amendment to clause 47. It takes the view that it is unnecessary, almost certainly, but if it were not unnecessary the probabilities are that other parties could be affected by the conduct envisaged and that that would be struck down by the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 48 agreed to. 
Clause 49. 49. (1) A corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, directly or indirectly discriminate between purchasers of goods of like grade and quality in relation to- 
the prices charged for the goods; 
any discounts, allowances, rebates or credits given in relation to the supply of the goods; 
the provision of services or facilities in respect of the goods; or " (h) such other acts, things or provisions as may ties provided in respect of the goods, if the discrimination is of such magnitude or is of such a recurring or systematic character that it is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods, being a market in which the corporation supplies, or those persons supply, goods. 
Sub-section (1) does not apply in relation to a discrimination if - 
the discrimination makes only reasonable allowance for differences in the cost or likely cost of manufacture, distribution, sale or delivery resulting from the differing places to which, methods by which or quantities in which the goods are supplied to the purchasers; or 
the discrimination is constituted by the doing of an act in good faith to meet a price or benefit offered by a competitor of the supplier. 
The Government cannot accept this amendment. It takes the view that the behaviour of price discrimination is generally, in those circumstances, so much against the public interest that to delete the words 'directly or indirectly' and to substitute for them 'knowingly' would so weaken the legislation as to be a bad thing for Australian consumers and people seeking to obtain the benefits of the legislation the Government has introduced. I repeat the remarks I made before about the difficulty of proving that something is done knowingly in the case of a corporation. As to the second amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth, that the words 'reasonably believed to be' be inserted, this introduces a subjective element into the question. We believe it works unfairly to the advantage of corporations indulging in this sort of practice. I say that carefully knowing that the Government wants to be fair in the overall situation towards corporations as well as to the people affected by their dealings. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 50. 
A corporation shall not acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares in the capital, or any assets, of a body corporate where the acquisition is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods or services. 
The Government opposes the amendment at this time because it is clearly a matter that requires careful consideration. There may be merit in some of the matters put forward by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  On the other hand, one can at first blush think of a situation where it would weaken the legislation considerably. One wonders why, merely because a matter was in the ordinary course of business and it produced a substantial lessening of competition, it should not he prevented. The Government opposes the amendment at this time. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 51. 
In determining whether a contravention of a provision of this Part other than section 48 has been committed, regard shall not be had - 
 The Government opposes the amendment for the reasons I have previously given. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 52 to 75  -  by leave - 'taken together. 
 The Government opposes the amendments. The Government takes the view that the question of conspiracy, as contained in paragraph (f) of clause 76, is a very necessary part of the legislation. On the other point raised by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  the 
Government has given considerable thought to whether the test should be on the balance of probabilities - the normal civil test in litigation - or whether it should be the criminal test of beyond all reasonable doubt, which the honourable member for Wentworth seeks to have inserted. The Government believes that the civil burden of proof is the proper one although it appreciates and expects that tribunals giving effect to that language will apply the normal tests of making a finding according to the civil test but where the consequences are such as are spelled out in this legislation. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 77. 
An action under sub-section (1) may be commenced at any time after the contravention. 
The Government opposes the amendment for the reasons I have given. The matter will be given close study. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 78 agreed to. 
Clause 79. 
A person who contravenes a provision of Part V other than section 52 is guilty of an offence punishable on conviction - 
in the case of a person not being a body corporate - by a fine not exceeding (10,000 or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 6 months; or 
in the case of a person being a body corporate- by a fine not exceeding $50,000. 
The Government opposes the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 80 to 84 - by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 85. 
Subject to sub-section (2), in a prosecution under this Part in relation to a contravention of a provision of Part V, it is a defence if the defendant establishes - 
that the contravention in respect of which the proceeding was instituted was due to a mistake, to reliance on information supplied by another person, to the act or default of another person, to an accident or to some other cause beyond his control; and 
that he took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due diligence to avoid the contravention. 
If a defence provided by sub-section (1) involves an allegation that a contravention was due to reliance on information supplied by another person or to the act or default of another person, the defendant is not, without leave of the Court, entitled to rely on that defence unless he has not later than 7 days before the day on which the hearing of the proceeding commences, served on the person by whom the proceeding was instituted a notice in writing giving such information that would identify or assist in the identification of the other person as was then in his possession. 
In a proceeding under this Part in relation to a contravention of a provision of Part V committed .by the publication of an advertisement, it is a defence if the defendant establishes that he is a person whose business it is to publish or arrange for the publication of advertisements and that he received the advertisement for publication in the ordinary course of business and did not know and had no reason to suspect that its publication would amount to a contravention of a provision of that Part. 
In a proceeding under this Part in relation to a contravention of Part V committed by the supplying of goods that did not comply with a consumer product safety standard or in relation to which the supplier did not comply with a consumer product information standard, it is a defence if the defendant establishes - 
that the goods were acquired by him for the purpose of re-supply and were so acquired from a person who carried on in Australia a business of supplying such goods otherwise than as the agent of a person outside Australia; and 
that he did not know, and could not with reasonable diligence have ascertained, that the goods did not comply with that standard or that he had not complied with that standard in relation to the goods, as the case may be, or he relied in good faith on a representation by the person from whom he acquired the goods that a consumer product safety standard or a consumer product information standard, as the case may be, had not been prescribed in respect of the goods. 
A person is not, without leave of the Court, entitled to rely on the defence provided by subsection (4) unless he has, not later than 7 days before the day on which the hearing of the proceeding commences, served on the person by whom the proceeding was instituted a notice in writing identifying the person from whom he acquired the goods. 
The Government opposes the amendment. It takes the view that the defences are quite liberal as spelt out in clause 85. Clause 76, which has already been dealt with, provides for all relevant circumstances, including circumstances in which conduct takes place, to be taken into account on the question of penalties. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 86 and 87 agreed to. 
Clause 88. 
The Commission does not have power to grant an authorization under sub-section (1) to a corporation to make a contract or arrangement, or to enter into an understanding, if the contract or arrangement has already been made or the understanding has already been entered into. 
The Commission does not have power to grant an authorization under sub-section (1) to a corporation to continue to be a party to a contract, arrangement or understanding unless - 
in the case of a contract - the requirements of paragraphs 45 (7) (a) and (b) have been complied with; or 
the contract or arrangement was made, or the understanding was entered into, before the expiration of the period referred to in subsection 2 (4) and - 
the authorization is granted before the expiration of that period; or 
11284/74-  R-  [20] 
the authorization is granted upon the expiration or revocation of another authorization granted to the corporation under sub-section (1) in relation to the contract, arrangement or understanding. 
The Government opposes the amendments sought. The Government believes that there is sufficient flexibility in the legislation in its present form. It also takes the view that it is also almost inconceivable that conduct of this kind could be in the public interest. These amendments would give rise to enormous problems of practical administration. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 89 agreed to. 
Clause 90. 
Subject to sub-sections (9) and (11), the Commission shall not make a determination granting an authorization unless it is satisfied that the contract, arrangement, understanding or conduct to which the application relates results, or is likely to result, in a specific and substantial benefit to the public, being a benefit that would not otherwise be available, and that, in all the circumstances, that result, or that likely result, as the case may be, justifies the granting of the authorization. 
The Government opposes the amendment for the reasons I have given. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 91 agreed to. 
Clauses 92 and 93 - by leave - taken together. 
Clause 92. 
 
Where a corporation so gives notice to the Commission, the Commission may at any time give notice in writing to the corporation stating that the Commission considers that any restraint of trade or commerce that results from the contract, arrangement or understanding or would result from the proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, has or would have such a slight effect on competition as to be insignificant, and, if the Commission gives such a notice, the contract, arrangement or understanding shall be deemed not to be in restraint of trade or commerce for the purposes of this Act. 
Clause 93. 
Where a corporation so gives notice to the Commission, the Commission may at any time give notice in writing to the corporation stating that the Commission considers that the engaging by the corporation in the proposed conduct would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods or services. 
Where- 
a corporation has given a notice to the Commission under sub-section (1) in relation to proposed conduct; and 
the Commission has given notice in writing to the corporation stating that the Commission considers that the engaging by the corporation in the proposed conduct would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods or services, 
 The Government opposes the amendment for the reasons I have given. They will be given close attention. 
Amendments and proposed new clauses negatived. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole. 
 The Government opposes the amendment at this stage. It is an interesting concept in this context and will be given very close study. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  asked 3 questions. The first related to districts in clause 5. There is no reference to districts in clause 5. The second question, relating to subclause (2) of clause 20, asked why the Government did not name a date now. It is for the very simple reason, as my honourable friend would know, that the reference is to pending actions and it is to give freedom of choice to the litigants. As far as sub-clause (8) of clause 20 is concerned - the question dealt with the words 'may apply' - the same comment applies. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
In view of the novelty of my friend's backward-looking approach I move: 
That the honourable member be given an extension of time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 in reply - The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  speaks as though Queensland were not part of Australia. By way of an introduction, perhaps I should assure him that my own experience has not been confined to the Australian Capital Territory. I have had experience in London, England and- 
You are lucky. I have had experience in the State of New South Wales, in Sydney in particular, for many years and also in many parts of country New South Wales. I have perhaps gained somehting from my experience since coming to Canberra, which is surrounded by an artificial sea called New South Wales. 
No, not the lake. That experience directed my attention to certain aspects of the administration of law in Australia that are perhaps not widely known, except to lawyers. They are certainly not known to laymen. I believe that these aspects are very much to the detriment of Australia. With respect to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  who up to a few years ago were colleagues of mine in the legal profession, I suggest that the legal profession is essentially very conservative. We take a great deal of delight in having mastered a set of rules, a set of jurisprudence, and in then being able to say: 'We know it. It is ours. We are on top of it. For God's sake, do not change it or we will have to start all over again.' 
Let me just remind honourable members of some aspects where a price is paid - a price that I regard as absurd - for the division of functions as it exists. For example, my friend, the honourable member for Moreton, talked about the need for one country. No one needs to persuade me of that. But may I remind him that in his own State of Queensland the honourable member for Wentworth, who is a well known and respected member of the senior Bar of New South Wales, probably cannot practise. I do not know whether he has been admitted to the Queensland bar, but almost certainly he has not. I certainly could not practise in Queensland. Why? I could not practise because Queensland operates a closed shop. 
That is what we want to correct. Does the honourable member for Griffith know that in his own State of Queensland they practise a closed shop? May I put another aspect that I regard as quite absurd. It concerns the situation the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  perhaps to his amusement or perhaps to his cost, found to exist when he was offended by a piece of defamation that was directed at him here in the Australian Capital Territory, this part of Australia surrounded by an artificial, legal, fictitious line. What was said about him was heard 8 miles away in Queanbeyan, which by virtue of being a legal entity, a legal fiction in large measure, is another part of Australia called New South Wales. The right honourable member found that whether he won or lost a case of defamation depended on whether a person listening happened to be on one side of a non-existent line or the other. The situation is quite absurd as it exists. We have 6 States. I think it was the honourable member for Moreton who made the point that we want to move towards one Australia. It is absurd to have, say, 8 different sets of hire purchase laws, 8 different sets of sale of goods Acts, 8 different sets of laws on defamation, 8 different sets of motor traffic laws and 8 different sets of company laws. It is good for lawyers; it is wonderful for lawyers. I did well out of it. 
It has a lot to do with lawyers and the attitude of mind that is created by them. A lot has ben made of the fact that in my second reading speech I quoted some very esteemed previous members of this Parliament and of the judiciary in Australia who had supported the proposition that the Government now brings forward. I quoted  Sir Garfield  Barwick, one of the great lawyers of the country and now the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia. In a 'Federal Law Review' article he supported the concept. I quoted  Sir Kenneth  Bailey, another great Australian jurist, who in an article in the 'Australian Law Journal' in 1963  -  I am going back as far as that - also supported the proposition, although I have to admit only in part. Of course one has to go back even further, because the very basis for what the Government seeks to do was laid as long ago as 1900, when the Founding Fathers, of whom so much has been said, wrote it into the Constitution on the assumption that some day a government would do it. It was assumed that there might be cheaper ways. It was assumed that, as Australia was a young country and an immature country at that time, the problem could be solved, and the Founding Fathers used the autochthonous expedient - an almost unpronouncable term - to bring it about. It is justice on the cheap, if you like. They did it, but they assumed a time would come when the Australian Government would get around to creating its own courts and then Australia would become one country, not 6 artificially divided groups as though Queenslanders were not Victorians, New South Welshmen were not South Australians, South Australians were not Tasmanians and the people of the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory were not Western Australians. 
I am indebted to my friend who interjects. That is what we are regarded as in law. My good friend, the honourable member for Wentworth, will concede that in terms of international law, conflict of laws, private international law, call it what you will, Victoria and New South Wales are as foreign as France and the Soviet Union. 
A start has to be made somewhere. Before I go on to talk about the start this Government is trying to make, let me say that to my way of thinking - I put this to all right thinking honourable members here - the situation as it exists, although it is often glossed over, is quite absurd and throws back to an earlier day. It is not we who look back; it is honourable gentlemen opposite who look back. To use a hackneyed phrase, they are States righters. They talk about these fictitious but legal entities called the States but pay little or no regard to the people who live on this continent called Australia. I was mentioning some of the Australian jurists who had supported the concept we bring forward now. A member of the New South Wales Court of Appeal,  Mr Justice  Bowen, a previous Attorney-General, supported it. 
I will come to why they disagree. In an article in the 'Australian Law Journal' in 1967  -  I am coming forward in time - he said: 
May I say that all the arguments which have been advanced against the idea have been carefully weighed and considered along with the arguments in favour of it and a decision has been taken to establish the court. 
Indeed, he introduced a Bill into this House, accompanied by a second reading speech, which sought to establish the Court. Mind you, honourable members will remember that at about the same time the Australian Labor Party began to espouse the idea as well. Hansard will record that fact. Of course, it is fascinating to reflect on the change of mind by some of these eminent jurists who were also politicians and members of the Liberal Party. When they were in office they talked in glowing terms about the need for a Commonwealth or Australian Superior Court but, once it looked likely that there would be a change of Government and that a Labor Government would come to office, they suddenly lost their enthusiasm for the idea. It is a valid point to make, and I put it forward. It is amazing how often measures were brought forward but not completed by the previous Government, espoused with enthusiasm and put forward as the solution to many of the country's ills but hot completed for one reason or another, often as a result of pressure put on the previous Government by vested interests, State or otherwise. Then the Australian Labor Government came into existence and the First Whitiam Ministry and the Second Whitiam Ministry said: 'We were persuaded by your ideas. They are good. We will do just that thing.' Now the Opposition says: 'We did not mean you to do it'. Opposition is mounted. 
It has to be conceded that there will be problems in the administration of such a new court, but may I put it to honourable members that there is a growing awareness in this country that it is absurd to have the divisions that exist. My friend from Wentworth makes the point: Why have this system? 
Yes, I am reminded of the speech that the honourable member for Wentworth made before the sitting was suspended this evening when the House was considering the restrictive trade practices legislation. The honourable member was opposing in that instance the Government's proposals to have some forms of consumer protection enacted on an Australia-wide basis. The purpose of that action is to treat the people of this country as the people of one nation and to get away from the absurd divisions by which the States for proprietary international law or conflicts of law purposes are treated as foreign states, almost foreign national states. We must make a start somewhere. That was the thinking of Nigel Bowen, Barwick, Windeyer, Bailey - all of them - as they spoke on it in the years immediately before the change of government. 
 I am told that it was not the decision of Windeyer. May I pick him up in this document. 
I have  read  it carefully. 
I have the reference here. My honourable, friend might be good enough to find it for me. It is one of the underlined passages. Surely the point is this: Although the honourable member for Moreton talks about massive disinterest - one can understand massive disinterest in respect of something which, on the face of it, seems to be legal - behind this concept is a pretty basic attempt insofar as it is open to this Australian Government to act, to establish a set of courts to which Australians can have access. 
One of the previous speakers in this debate pointed out that he did not even know which laws would apply in this new set of courts. I remember a case - perhaps my good friend from Wentworth may well remember it - in which I was involved. It was the case of Suehle against the Commonwealth of Australia and was heard in 1967 or  1968.  It was the case of a workman who was electrocuted. He happened to be electrocuted in South Australia where one set of laws applied. But he was employed by the Commonwealth. One would have thought if one had a rational system that it would not matter, but he happened to be living in the Australian Capital Territory - that is how I came into the matter - which had a different set of laws. He commenced his proceedings in the Australian Capital Territory Registry of the High Court. The situation might have been produced in which the laws of the Australian Capital Territory applied in order to determine whether he succeeded in claiming a very substantial sum of damages or whether he received nothing. The High Court decided to sit in Sydney.  Mr Justice  Windeyer had this terribly complex but fascinating problem, from the point of view of lawyers, which was posed by the fact that the man had been electrocuted in South Australia and that he had been driving a truck, the ladder of which had extended and come in contact with electric wires. The man was very badly hurt. If contributory negligence had been a defence, he might have received nothing. If it was just a means of reducing the verdict by a certain amount, he would have received a substantial sum of money. 
All right, and we are. trying to do away with that. The solution to the problem depended on which set of laws applied to this Australian who was employed by this 
Australian Government. There were 3 probable different answers. The judge made his decision. It was the decision of a single judge. He opted for the law of New South Wales, as I remember. He could have selected the law of South Australia or the law of the Australian Capital Territory and in each instance a different result would have followed. This problem was posed by the trial judge: He said: T suppose out of convenience I had had to say to counsel and the litigants that I was terribly sorry but they would have to come across to Western Australia where I would give my judgment because I was required to be in that State for the hearing of another case'. There would have been a different result in that State. How absurd can the situation get? 
I fully appreciate the remarks of the honourable member for Moreton. Every honourable member in this House, although we do not always agree with him, acknowledges that he has not only great eloquence but also a sense of history, and he spoke about that tonight. He talked about our logic. He talked about a sense of history. He talked of the autochthonous expedient. That is what it was - an expedient. Our founding fathers included this when Australia's population was 3 million and not 13 million as it is now. At that time Australia was not a nation. It consisted of 6 colonies bound separately to the British Crown. In what other way could this be done? The founding fathers foresaw that a time would come when attempts would be made to create in Australia a national system of justice. That is what this Government seeks to do by this legislation. We are taking the first step. 
I am reminded of other steps. For example, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  spoke about the need for company legislation. We all know the absurdities resulting from the fact that so many different company laws apply in Australia. We know the opportunities for abuse that these different laws provide. Opposition spokesmen say: 'Go and sit down with the States, talk with them and come to some agreement.' As the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  said in this House today, we would be here until the year 2001 before agreement was reached even about a time at which to meet. 
It took 2 years to get that law, and how long to lose it? Think of the abuses of company law? I have dealt with the question of defamation and the other aspects of the law in Australia which to my mind and to the mind of the Government, are wasteful and unnecessary. We believe strongly in diversity. We believe in the enrichment which can come from diversity, but not when it comes to waste; not when it comes to atavistic, backward-looking theories which come back in over-simplistic terms to States rights as though States were people. States are not people. States are artificial lines drawn on maps around certain geographic areas. They do not even represent regions of people in Australia, with the possible exception of Tasmania which is an island. 
They are part of the Constitution, and we do our best to work with it. Make no mistake: Australia pays a very great price for this division, this conflict, that is built into the system. We must start somewhere. For example, may I make the point to honourable members that, in the last week or so, the report of the Rae Committee - the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange - revealed in the Senate the scandal with respect to securities and exchange. That report showed a scandal. It talked of the massive waste of funds, fraud, deceit and all manner of like activities, even of the waste of money. It spoke of $300m having been subscribed to 200 companies for the purposes of exploration and development. That money was wasted, all thrown away. Crooks got it. Why? Because the States really do not want to but cannot basically enact legislation appropriate, to that purpose. This Government can. The Liberal-Country Party Government when it was in power did not because it does not believe in or attach much importance to that aspect. We will. 
We must have at least a beginning towards a set of Australian Government courts where matters of this sort can be determined. Already we have Australian Government courts dealing with bankruptcy and industrial matters. We have the original jurisdiction of the High Court which that body does not want and which it asks be taken from it. We have the matrimonial causes jurisdiction. I remember the legal convention that was held in 1967 or earlier at which eminent counsel including Watson,  Mr Justice  Toose and others - the present Solicitor-General, I think, was one of those present - all pleading that the present division, this cheap autochthonous expedient, be brought to and end or, at least, phased out. Here, as so often 'happens, we take the first step. But, also as so often happens, the opposition comes from honourable members opposite. The statement that I intended to read - I am indebted to my friend from Wentworth for finding it for me- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The Minister's time has expired. (Extension of time granted.) 
I thank the honourable member for Wentworth and the House. This passage is under the name of  Sir Victor  Windeyer, one of the great jurists of this country, an eminent legal historian. The passage I had in mind reads: 
I venture to quote what  Mr Justice  Holmes said in the Supreme Court of the United States some time in the 1920s. It is a well known passage. He said: When we are dealing with words which are also  a  constituent act like the Constitution of the United States we must realise that they have called into life a being the development of which could not have been foreseen completely by the most gifted of its begettors. It was enough for them to realise or to hope that they had created an organism; it has taken a century, and has cost their successors much sweat and blood, to prove that they created a nation.' He was, of course, speaking of the United States. The passage continues: 
We may apply that to our experience since Federation. The position of Australia in the world today forces this more and more upon our attention. The idea of 'federal jurisdiction' is not readily understood by people today, unless they be lawyers. The very word 'federal' is losing significance. We used to talk about the 'Federal Parliament'. We now call it the National Parliament'. We used to talk about the Federal Capital'. It is now the 'National Capital'. 
It is with those sentiments that the Government is in complete agreement. It has put forward this measure as a beginning to help to bring them about. 
Question put - 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Yes, my attention has been drawn to it. This subject has received attention in the Press and indeed in this House. The problem facing the textile industry in Australia goes back many years. It was because of that fact that the Government very early in its life last year set up the Textile and Apparel Industry Advisory Panel to bring the Department of Secondary Industry, as it then was, into closer relationship with the industry both at the management level and at the trade union level so that the Government had the benefit of the advice that the industry could give and the industry would know what the Government was thinking. Quotas had been placed on certain aspects of the industry to give some protection to it from certain imports as a result of the previous Government's failure to negotiate a General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade arrangement back in 1972. Those quotas remained in force until early this year when they were removed because of the success of this Government in entering into a GATT arrangement in respect of certain forms of apparel such as knitted wear and woven shirts. As a result of that the Panel has been kept in close consultation and imports have come into this country. During the election campaign, honourable members will recall, certain allegations were made which led the Government to make a reference to the specially created textile authority in the Industries Assistance Commission. That authority made a finding that certain forms of dislocation were occurring in the industry and the Government took prompt action on that. Restrictions are being imposed on imports from Taiwan, for example, and negotiations are under way with other importing countries. 
As far as Wangaratta is concerned, the Government recently formed a special task force, comprising representatives of the Department of Manufacturing Industry, the Department of Labor and Immigration, the Department of Urban and Regional Development and, I think, the Department of Overseas Trade, to go to Wangaratta and investigate the position on the spot. Indeed, while there it is taking the opportunity to go to Shepparton too, because it is in the same area. I expect to have its report in the very near future. 
Quite so. The Government sees the situation in towns like Wangaratta as providing a pilot study for what is happening in country towns that are excessively dependent on particular industries like, say, the textile industry. 
The Attorney-General is, of course, responsible for the matter. I believe it is correct to say that it was his action some years ago that led to the coming into being of the Committee that in its report drew attention to the very unfortunate situation that exists in the securities industry in Australia. I think it is appropriate to say as part of the answer that the Government is very concerned at the state of affairs that was revealed. It indicates a lack of responsibility and an extent of dishonesty that are appalling. It can also be said, of course, that in many ways the industry is far more associated with the principles and the attitude to commerce that is to be found represented in the Opposition parties in this Parliament rather than in the Government Party. Although the Government is fully in accord with the main thrust of the Rae Committee recommendations it has not as yet been able to study the detailed submissions. The AttorneyGeneral has in mind, and has already initiated, action to begin the preparation of legislation that will try to put the matter right. But one is also prompted to say that apart from the abuses, exploitation and dishonesty that were revealed in the securities industry, one has seriously to challenge the utility of it when it operates in the way shown in the report. As a means of raising capital for a capital-hungry country like Australia the sheer inefficiency of the industry is something to be deplored and something that the Government hopes to do something about. 
The matter raised by the honourable member is indeed a difficult one. All honourable members are rightly concerned about the revelations contained in the report of the Rae Committee. I indicated this in my earlier answer to another honourable member. The difficulty in the problem arises from the fact that there are competing values. One does not wish to see people escape from justice to another country. On the other hand, one has to recognise the very important fundamental right of freedom of passage and the serious consequences which flow from the withdrawal of a passport. This Government has 'been particularly determined to advance and to upgrade the concepts of civil liberties. That has perhaps been indicated by its attitude to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In that Covenant, there is declared the right that everyone shall be free to leave a country, including his own, subject to the normal operation of the law. The point raised by the honourable member is one that is receiving serious consideration. So long as what have to be called corporate criminals - people who commit white collar crimes, people with ample funds, people who can seriously disadvantage innocent people and then flee with their illgotten gains to other ' countries - the matter does deserve serious attention. The Government has already sought and has managed to obtain reform of the extradition laws of this country to overcome the problem in part. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Evidence Act 1905-1973 to apply relevant provisions of that Act to a joint sitting of the 2 Houses of Parliament. The sections of the Act which the Bill seeks to amend are sections 4 and 7. Section 4 requires all courts to take judicial notice of the signature of a number of office-holders, including the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. Section 7 enables copies printed by the Government Printer of the Votes and Proceedings or Journals or Minutes of either House of the Parliament, or of papers presented to either House, to be admitted as evidence in the courts. The amendments contained in the Bill seek to relate the provisions of these sections to a joint sittings of the 2 Houses. Clause 4 of the Bill provides for judicial notice to be taken of the official signature of the member presiding at a joint sitting. Clause 5 of the Bill provides for copies printed by the Government Printer of the formal records of the proceedings of a joint sitting, or of papers presented to a joint sitting, to be admitted in court in evidence. 
The Bill does not propose any changes in the principles embodied in the Act. Its purpose, as I have said, is to provide in relation to a joint sitting, in the same manner as the Act now deals with the signatures of the presiding officers and the proceedings of the separate Houses of the Parliament. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Parliamentary Papers Act to make appropriate provisions in relation to a joint sitting of the 2 Houses of Parliament. The Parliamentary Papers Act protects the publisher of Hansard against actions for defamation or other legal proceedings. The same protection is conferred on a person who publishes a document tabled in either House or evidence given before a Committee of either House or of both Houses where the House or the Committee has authorised the printing of the document or evidence. It is desirable that the same protection should be afforded a person who publishes a document, including the Hansard report of proceedings, the publication of which is authorised by a joint sitting of the 2 Houses. The Bill proceeds on the basis that for this purpose a joint sitting of the 2 Houses should be regarded on the same footing as either House sitting separately. 
Section 2 of the Parliamentary Papers Act provides that is is lawful for either House of the Parliament to authorise the publication of a document laid before it. Section 3 of the Act provides that a House of the Parliament or a Committee is deemed to have authorised the Government Printer to publish a document or evidence if the House or the Committee, as the case may be, has ordered the document or evidence to be printed. The section also provides that each House of the Parliament is deemed to have authorised the Government Printer to publish the reports of the debates and proceedings in that House. The purpose of clause 5 of the Bill is to make like provisions in respect of a joint sitting of the 2 Houses. 
Section 4 of the Act gives immunity from legal proceedings to a person who publishes a document or evidence where authority has been given by the Senate, the House of Representatives or of Committee, as the case may be, to publish that document or evidence. Doubts have been expressed whether the protection given by section 4 extends to the case where the authority to publish the document or evidence is derived, not from a resolution of either House or of a Committee, but from the operation of section 3 of the Act, which deems authority to have been given in certain cases. To put the matter beyond doubt, it has been thought desirable to include a provision in this Bill to amend section 4 to make it clear that the protection is afforded to a person who publishes a document or evidence the publication of which is deemed to have been authorised by either House, by a joint sitting or by a Committee. This amendment is contained in clause 6 of the Bill. 
The Bill introduces no new principles. It is, as I have said, intended to put publication of the proceedings of a joint sitting or of documents laid before a joint sitting on exactly the same footing as the publication of proceedings of either House or of a document laid before either House. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
I am happy to be able to inform honourable members that" the Government's efforts to obtain sales have been very successful. General approval has been given to construct 70 of these aircraft. Eleven aircraft are committed to the Australian Army, four to the Indonesian Navy - Defence Cooperation, six to the Northern Territory Aerial Medical Service, twelve to the Philippines Air Force, one to Nationwide Air Services, one to Aeromaritime Italia SPA and two to the Peruvian Army. There are 6 options with regard to the aircraft - two to Hawker de Havilland, two to Nationwide Air Services and two to Aeromaritime Italia SPA. That list, which accounts for all but 26 of the total number of aircraft so far authorised to be constructed, does not include 5 aircraft for which the Peruvian Army has been granted a right of first refusal subject to its first 2 aircraft, to which 1 have referred, satisfactorily meeting performance requirements. 
In 'addition to those firm commitments, negotiations are now actively in progress for 16 aircraft for Venezeula, ten for the Malaysian Air Force, six for the Philippines Aerospace Development Corporation, six for the Philippines Navy and an unspecified number for Ethiopian Airlines and Olympic Airways. In addition, negotiations have commenced with the air forces of Nigeria and Kenya and there are good prospects that another half squadron of aircraft will be purchased by the Philippines Air Force. Because of design changes and the unfortunate accident of which members are aware the first production aircraft is not expected until September, but success to date is better than that for the de Havilland Twin Otter at a similar stage of its development. 
For the information of honourable members 1 present the report entitled The Electronic Components Industry' dated April 1974. 

 - Senator Greenwood who represents the State of Victoria tried to suggest that an extension of the franchise to allow Australians who live in Canberra or the Northern Territory to send people into one of the 2 Houses of this Parliament is patronage. Before I came into this assembly I read some of the remarks attributed to the honourable senator in a speech which he gave in the Senate on the same subject and, quite frankly, I could not follow his arguments. He repeated those arguments in the speech which he just made. He says that public servants who support Labor- and they do this for very good reasons- are being got at in some way. He then says that because one of the most under-privileged groups in the community- the Aboriginals of the Northern Territory- are being helped by this Labor Government, they too are being got at in some way. Many many years ago a man called Voltaire described how words were invented to hide the real thoughts of certain spokesmen. This description could be used pertinently in that way here today. 

 Senator Greenwood talked also about a States House. Honourable members must ask themselves what is meant by the expression 'a States House'. As far as I can understand the system, senators, who are not State government people and who are not elected to the Senate as representatives of the New South Wales Government, the Queensland Government, the Victorian Government, the Tasmanian Government or the Western Australian Government, are elected to the Senate according to a different system of elections than those relating to the House of Representatives, but just as members of the House of Representatives are elected to that House to represent the people of a particular part of Australia, so too do senators represent people and not State governments. It is sheer nonsense to suggest, as was suggested a moment ago, that there is a conflict in that you can set up a House of people against a House of the States. The Senate is just as much a House of the people as is the House of Representatives. The fiction that senators represent State governments is broadcast and republished all the time. 
May I suggest something that I think should be said? It is a pity that joint sittings do not take place more often. What more absurd system can we have as a system of structural government written into our Constitution than one in which measures originate in the House of Representatives; having been considered in the House of Representatives go across to the Senate where they are considered again and are rejected or amended in ways in which the House of Representatives,  ot  the people's house as it is called, does not accept; after the necessary time lag come back to the House of Representatives where they are again debated; and are then sent across to the Senate where they are again rejected; this action leading to a double dissolution? Under this system, these measures are then canvassed before the people in an election; they will be introduced again into the House of Representatives which would go right through the gamut of examination and debate; and then they would go to the Senate where they are again examined, debated and voted on. At that stage there would have been 3 debates in the House of Representatives and 3 debates in the Senate which means that the measures would have been discussed 6 times. In addition, if there has been an election before that, these matters may have been debated before the people. If there is a double dissolution there is a debate before the people again. Finally these matters may be put before a joint sitting. All in all this measure, for example, has on my count been considered on about 7 occasions. Would it not be better if we could sit down at a meeting of members of both Houses at a single sitting? I make no apologies for the policies of my party when I say that we would have a better Goverment if the Parliament were not divided against itself in the way in which it is divided against itself now. The situation would be far, far better. 
Talk about obstruction! Just think of this measure in particular, which seeks to give the people of the Australian Capital Territory representation in this Parliament where they have not representation already, that is, in the Senate. Many measures that concern the people of the Australian Capital Territory are debated in that chamber but the people of the Australian Capital Territory do not have a representative to participate in any debate in the Senate, as they ave no opportunity to send a man or a woman to express their point of view in that chamber. 
The history of this measure began in 1968 when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  then Leader of the Opposition, introduced a private member's Bill seeking to do what this Bill proposes to do. The issues were canvassed at that time in the House of Representatives. Honourable members should remember that the Government of the day in 1968 refused the right of that Bill to go to a vote. The then Government stopped the debate on the measure. In 1970, the then Leader of the Opposition- the present Prime Minister- tried again, out of a recognition of the pretty fundamental and basic fact that a large number of people in the Northern Territory and in the Australian Capital Territory are without their democratic rights. On that occasion, a little over 4 years ago,  I  made my maiden speech on that legislation. Since then, the matter has been debated 7 times in this Parliament. Now, as a last resort, the Bill is being considered by this Joint Sitting. 
What a way to run a country. What a way to have to run a country. What a way to have to make laws. To make these laws we must go through this process. The measure which was debated earlier today by this Joint Sitting began in the minds of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, which was established by Prime Minister Menzies as long ago as 1958. The set of rules by which the people who are sent to the 2 chambers of this Parliament must try to run the affairs of this country make up a remarkably cumbersome, inefficient and backward system. 
A great deal has been said about obstruction. We remember what  Senator Withers  said in discussing, I think, the electoral legislation in the Senate in April of this year.  Senator Withers  said that the Opposition Parties in the Senate were determined to bring down the second Whitlam Ministry which, at that time, had been in office, following its election in December 1972, for some 15 months. Of course, the first Whitlam Ministry lasted for a month only while final election returns were obtained and Party elections held. The Opposition Parties in the Senateafter the election of the Labor Government began their course of obstruction which led finally to the calling of a double dissolution. This was precipitated by the refusal of supply by the so-called House of review. It is a House of obstruction, not a House of review. 
A little while ago in the House of Representatives we heard the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  say in respect of one of the measures that the Joint Sitting will discuss tonight or tomorrow- I refer to the National Health legislation which proposes a health scheme on which this Government campaigned and was elected; it was proposed first to the Australian people in 1968 and was restated in 1969, 1972 and 1974-that he and the Opposition would go to the barricades rather than yield one iota, one inch, to the will of the people. If the statement that the Opposition will go to the barricades to prevent that scheme being introduced in not enough proof of the obstructionism which comes from the Opposition parties, I point to the legal challenge that was mounted by 2 members of the Senate, who sit in this Joint Sitting now, before the highest court in the land. Those honourable senators said: 'We will not tolerate the present situation'. In order to stop the passage of our measures, every action must be invoked to prevent the democratic rights of the people being enacted. 
There sits in the House a good friend of many of us, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  He is fond of quoting Edmund Burke. May I remind the honourable gentleman of a statement that is attributed to Burke. He said: 
Bad laws are the worst sort of tyranny. 
What brings us together here today is a bad law. It is our basic law- the Constitution- which insists that people go through this enormous time scale of effort and frustration and which provides the opportunity for people who have lost the election, who have put their points of view to the people and who have had them rejected, as a government in exile, so to speak, in the Senate to say: 'We will not accept the will of the people. We will block it'. In that sense a form of tyranny is brought about by that bad set of basic laws. 
Let me say something about the general feeling in the Australian Capital Territory. I am sure that it exists in the Northern Territory and I am sure that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  will support me in this because he has spoken about it on other occasions. Here in the Australian Capital Territory there is a feeling of under-representation. Let us think of the ordinances that have been disallowed in the Senate- ones relating to legal practitioners, the Canberra Community Hospital and the trespass on Commonwealth lands. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  brought in an iniquitous piece of legislation dealing with the Aboriginal embassy. It was repealed by this Government and then in the Senate the repeal was disallowed by senators who refused to accept what the Government had said it would do and on what in part, at least in this city, it had fought an election and the people had voted. I could go on. Time and time again measures that have been introduced have been disallowed in the Senate where the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the people of the Northern Territory have no representation. 
All the legislation in the Australian Capital Territory is delegated legislation. The Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances is of prime, basic importance to the people of Canberra, but they are not allowed to have any person sit in on the hearings and participate in the Committee's deliberations. Not only is it unjust; it is also unfair. It shows a conservatism of mind on the part of the Liberal and Country Party representatives in this Joint Sitting that is almost unbelievable. When I look at my good friend the honourable member for Moreton I am reminded of another quotation. Disraeli said that conservatism is 'the mule of politics that engenders nothing'. It is absolutely incapable of creating anything; all, it can do is obstruct. Of course, the prime conservatives in this place are the members of the Country Party, aided and abetted by their Liberal colleagues who are real conservatives but who are not game to call themselves that and who choose the euphoric title of 'liberal', which they are not. There are far more liberals, in the real sense of the word, on the Labor side than there are on their side. 
The Death Penalty Abolition Bill, which succeeded in the Senate, related to Canberra as much as to any other part of Australia. Yet Canberra people were not allowed by the Opposition to have any representation in the Senate. Other examples could be given. I could refer to the ordinances dealing with temporary control of Lake Burley Griffin, medical practitioners and many others. 
I got a guernsey all right. There are nearly 250,000 people in Canberra. That is more than half the number of people in Tasmania. The Australian Capital Territory has 2 representatives in this Parliament- the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  and myself. May I put to the Parliament what representation Tasmania has? It has 10 senators, 5 members of the House of Representatives, some 35 members of a State Lower House, I understand about 19 members of a State Upper House and I am told about 500 aldermen. The discrepancy is a little remarkable. The Opposition says that because the Senate is a State's House representatives of the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory shall not sit in it. When members of the Opposition meet in their party room, do they vote as senators from Tasmania, Victoria or Western Australia? I think not. If they do, it is an added reason for doing away with the Senate, but I do not think they do, because they come here as Australians, not as, say, Victorians. By what right does a Victorian say that as a Victorian he objects to a New South Welshman as a New South Welshman, or by what right does a New South Welshman object as a New South Welshman to a person who lives in the Australian Capital Territory, where 250,000 people live? The Constitution speaks of the people of the States. It has very few references to the States as such. 
Behind the opposition that is mounted to this proposition lies not concern for a legal fiction, which is all that the description of the Senate as a States' House is. What lies behind it is deeplyfelt conservatism that the present system as it is understood cannot change, should not change. This is reflected in the Opposition's obstruction, whether it be to the Government's proposal for referenda reform, proposals for control over prices and incomes or all the other measures that the Labor Government, since it has been in office, has tried to implement, whether it be in relation to civil liberties, electoral reforms such as this measure or economic management. Whatever it happens to be, the Opposition has opposed it for the sheer sake of opposing it. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said the other day, the real crisis in this country at the moment is the threat to democratic order. That is right. That is the real crisis so long as the bloodyminded Opposition in its conservative guise says no to everything, forcing a situation whereby it takes 1 8 months for some measures to get to this stage of a joint sitting. This is the first time in the country's history that we have had to go to the last stage of having a joint sitting. It has never been necessary before. What better proof does the Opposition want of its hostility, its opposition, its obstructionism? A joint sitting has never been necessary before. The Opposition's attitude to this measure is consistent with its attitude to Supply. What the Opposition says is consistent with the proposition that it would turn off Supply again tomorrow if it could, or in November, March or April if it could. It cares nothing for the proper management of the country. It cares nothing for democratic reform. It cares nothing for the principle of one vote one value. It cares nothing for giving proper representation to the people of the Australian Capital Territory and it cares nothing for giving proper Senate representation to the people of the Northern Territory. I support the measure. 
I refer to the message received this morning from the Senate concerning the Trade Practices Bill. I move: 
That - 
A motion of which notice has been given or an amendment which expresses a censure of or want of confidence in the Government and is accepted by a Minister as a censure or want of confidence motion or amendment shall, until it is disposed of by the House, take precedence of all other business. 
A moment ago the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  accepted the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  as a motion of censure. He so described it. 

 - Mr Speaker, prior to the divisions I had been in the process of moving that the amendments requested by the Senate be taken into consideration in Committee of the whole House forthwith. I move: 
That the amendments requested by the Senate be taken into consideration in Committee of the whole House forthwith. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In Committee 
Consideration of Senate's amendments. 
Clause 2. 
1 ) Sections I and 2 shall come into operation on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent. 
Section 35 shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by Proclamation, being a date not earlier than the date on which the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property as revised at Stockholm on 14 July 1967 enters into force for Australia. 
The remaining provisions of this Act, other than subsections 45 ( 1 ) and (2) and 47 ( 1 ) and (2), shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by Proclamation. 
Sub-sections 45 (1) and (2) and 47 (1) and (2) shall come into operation at the expiration of four months after the date fixed under sub-section (3). 
Clause 4. 
1 ) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears- 'Companies Ordinance' means the Companies Ordinance 1 962- 1 974 of the Australian Capital Territory or, if that Ordinance is amended, that Ordinance as amended; 
Clause 7. 
1 ) There is hereby established a Trade Practices Commission, which shall consist of a Chairman and such number of other members as are from time to time appointed in accordance with this Act. 
The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Governor-General. 
A member of the Commission other than the  Chairman  may be appointed as a full-time member or as a pantime member. 
For the purposes of sub-sections 4 (3a) and (4) of the Superannuation Act 1922-1973 the  Chairman  and the full time members of the Commission shall each be deemed to be required, by the terms of his appointment, to give the whole of his time to the duties of his office. 
Clause 17. 
1 ) Where a member of the Commission other than the  Chairman  has or acquires any direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any business carried on in Australia, or in any body corporate carrying on any such business, being an interest that could be in conflict with his duties as a member, the member shall, to the best of his knowledge, disclose that interest to the  Chairman. 
Clause 29. 
The Attorney-General may give directions to the Commission in connexion with the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers under this Act other than its functions and powers under Part vii, and the Commissioner shall comply with any directions so given. 
Any direction given to the Commissioner under subsection ( I ) shall be in writing and the Attorney-General shall cause a copy of the direction to be published in the Gazette as soon as practicable after the direction is given. 
Clause 40. 
When a member of the Tribunal, other than a presidential member, is informed by the  President  that the  President  proposes that the member shall be a member of a Division of the Tribunal in any proceedings, the member shall, to the best of his knowledge, disclose to the  President  any direct or indirect pecuniary interest that the member has in any business carried on in Australia, or in any body corporate carrying on any such business, being an interest that could be in conflict with his duties as a member of the Tribunal in those proceedings. 
Clause 45. 
1 ) A contract in restraint of trade or commerce that was made before the commencement of this sub-section is unenforceable in so far as it confers rights or benefits or imposes duties or obligations on a corporation. 
A corporation shall not- 
make a contract or arrangement, or enter into an understanding, in restraint of trade or commerce; or 
give effect to a contract, arrangement or understanding that is in restraint of trade or commerce, whether the contract or arrangement was made or the understanding was entered into before or after the commencement of this sub-section. 
A contract, arrangement or understanding is not in restraint of trade or commerce for the purposes of this Act if the restraint has such a slight effect on competition between the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding and on competition between those parties, or any of them, and other persons as to be insignificant. 
Clause 46. 
1 ) A corporation that is in a position substantially to control a market for goods or services shall not take advantage of the power in relation to that market that it has by virtue of being in that position- 
to eliminate or substantially to damage a competitor in that market or in another market; 
to prevent the entry of a person into that market or into another market; or 
to deter or prevent a person from engaging in competitive behaviour in that market or in another market. 
For the purposes of this section, a corporation shall be deemed to be in a position substantially to control a market for goods or services if that corporation and any related corporation or related corporations are together in a position substantially to control that market. 
This section does not prevent a corporation from- 
engaging, during the period of 4 months immediately following the date fixed under sub-section 2 (3), in conduct that would constitute a contravention of subsection 45 ( 1 ) or (2) or 47 ( 1 ) if that sub-section had come into operation on that date; or 
engaging, after the expiration of that period, in conduct that does not constitute a contravention of any of the following sections, namely, section 45, 47 and 50, by reason that an authorisation is in force in respect of the conduct or by reason of the operation of section 92, 93 or 94. 
Clause 47. 
1 ) Subject to this section, a corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, engage in the practice of exclusive dealing. 
A corporation engages in the practice of exclusive dealing if the corporation- 
Sub-section ( 1 ) does not apply to the practice of exclusive dealing constituted by a corporation engaging in conduct of a kind referred to in sub-section (2) unless the engaging by the corporation in that conduct is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods or services. 
Clause 49.  (49.) (1) A corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, directly or indirectly discriminate between purchasers of goods of like grade and quality in relation to- 
the prices charged for the goods; 
any discounts, allowances, rebates or credits given in relation to the supply of the goods; 
the provision of services or facilities in respect of the goods; or 
the making of payments for services or facilities provided in respect of the goods, if the discrimination is of such magnitude or is of such a recurring or systematic character that it is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods, being a market in which the corporation supplies, or those persons supply, goods. 
Clause 50. 
1 ) A corporation shall not acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares in the capital, or any assets, of a body corporate where the acquisition is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods or services 
Clause 76. 
A person who- 
contravenes a provision of Part IV; 
b) attempts to contravene such a provision; 
aids, abets, counsels or procures a person to contravene such a provision; 
induces, or attempts to induce, a person whether by threats or promises or otherwise, to contravene such a provision; 
is in any way, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned in, or party to, the contravention by a person of such a provision; or 
f) conspires with others to contravene such a provision, is, if the Court so orders, liable to pay to Australia such pecuniary penalty (not exceeding $50,000 in the case of a person not being a body corporate, or $250,000 in the case of a body corporate, in respect of each act or omission by the person to which this section applies) as the Court determines to be appropriate having regard to all relevant matters including the nature and extent of the act or omission and of any loss or damage suffered as a result of the act or omission, the circumstances in which the act or omission took place and whether the person has previously been found by the Superior Court of Australia or the Australian Industrial Court in proceedings under this Part to have engaged in any similar conduct. 
Clause 77.  77 (1) The Attorney-General or the Commission may institute a proceeding in the Court by way of civil action for the recovery on behalf of Australia of a pecuniary penalty referred to in section 76. 
An action under sub-section (1) may be commenced at any time after the contravention. 
Clause 85. 
1 ) Subject to sub-section (2 ), in a prosecution under this Part in relation to a contravention of a provision of Pan V, it is a defence if the defendant establishes- 
that the contravention in respect of which the proceeding was instituted was due to a mistake, to reliance on information supplied by another person, to the act or default of another person, to an accident or to some other cause beyond his control; and 
that he took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due diligence to avoid the contravention. 
If a defence provided by sub-section ( 1 ) involves an allegation that a contravention was due to reliance on information supplied by another person or to the act or default of another person, the defendant is not, without leave of the Court, entitled to rely on that defence unless he has not later than 7 days before the day on which the hearing of the proceeding commences, served on the person by whom the proceeding was instituted a notice in writing giving such information that would identify or assist in the identification of the other person as was then in his possession. 
In the proceeding under this Part in relation to a contravention of a provision of Pan V committed by the publication of an advertisement, it is a defence if the defendant establishes that he is a person whose business it is to publish or arrange for the publication of advertisements and that he received the advertisement for publication in the ordinary course of business and did not know and had no reason to suspect that its publication would amount to a contravention of a provision of that Pan. 
In a proceeding under this Pan in relation to a contravention of Pan V committed by the supplying of goods that did not comply with a consumer product safety standard or in relation to which the supplier did not comply with a consumer product information standard, it is a defence if the defendant establishes- 
that the goods were acquired by him for the purpose of re-supply and were so acquired from a person who carried on in Australia a business of supplying such goods otherwise than as the agent of a person outside Australia; and 
that he did not know, and could not with reasonable diligence have ascertained, that the goods did not comply with that standard or that he had not complied with that standard in relation to the goods, as the case may be, or he relied in good faith on a representation by the person from whom he acquired the goods that a consumer product safety standard or a consumer product information standard, as the case may be, had not been prescribed in respect of the goods. 
A person is not, without leave of the Court, entitled to rely on the defence provided by sub-section (4) unless he has, not later than 7 days before the day on which the hearing of the proceeding commences, served on the person by whom the proceeding was instituted a notice in writing identifying the person from whom he acquired the goods. 
Clause 90. 
Subject to sub-sections (9) and (II), the Commission shall not make a determination granting an authorisation unless it is satisfied that the contract, arrangement, understanding or conduct to which the application relates results, or is likely to result, in a specific and substantial benefit to the public, being a benefit that would not otherwise be available, and that, in all the circumstances, that result, or that likely result, as the case may be, justifies the granting of the authorisation, 
Clause 92. 
Where a corporation so gives notice to the Commission, the Commission may at any time give notice in writing to the corporation stating that the Commission considers that any restraint of trade or commerce that results from the contract, arrangement or understanding or would result from the proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, has or would have such a slight effect on competition as to be insignificant, and, if the Commission gives such a notice, the contract, arrangement or understanding shall be deemed not to be in restraint of trade or commerce for the purposes of this Act. 
If, at any time after the Commission has given notice under sub-section (2) to a corporation in relation to a contract, arrangement or understanding, or a proposed contract, arrangement or understanding the Commission is satisfied that the notice was given on the basis of information that was false or misleading in a material particular or that there had been a material change of circumstances since the notice was given, the Commission may revoke the notice and, in that case, sub-section (2) ceases to operate, after the expiration of 30 days (or such longer period as the Commission by writing permits) after notice in writing of the revocation has been served on the corporation, to deem the contract, arrangement or understanding not to be in restraint of trade or commerce for the purposes of this Act. 
Clause 149. 
A member of the Commission or a member of the staff assisting the Commission shall not be required to produce in a court a document, copy or extract referred to in sub-section ( 1 ), or to divulge or communicate to any court any information concerning the affairs of any other person acquired by him from such a document, copy or extract, except when it is necessary to do so for the purposes of, or of a proceeding under or arising out of, this Act. 
Nothing in sub-section (I) or (2) applies in relation to- 
the communication of information to, or the production of a document, copy or extract to, the AttorneyGeneral or an officer acting on behalf of, and with the authority of, the Attorney-General; or 
the communication or production to a person of, or of information, documents, copies or extracts concerning, particulars of an agreement to which, according to those particulars, that person is or has been a party. 
Proposed new clause 1 56a.  "156a. (I) Where a corporation makes an application to the Commission for an authorization, the Commission gives a notice under section 91 (4) to a corporation to which an authorization has been given or proceedings have been instituted against a corporation under section 77, the Commission shall, at the request of the corporation, furnish to the corporation- 
a copy of every document that has been furnished to, or obtained by, the Commission in connexion with the matter to which the application, notice or proceedings relates and tends to establish the case of the corporation; and 
a copy of any other document in the possession of the Commission that comes to the attention of the Commission in connexion with the matter to which the application, notice or proceedings relates and tends to establish the case of the corporation, not being a document obtained from the corporation or prepared by an officer or professional adviser of the Commission. "(2) If the Commission does not comply with a request under sub-section ( 1 ), the Court shall, subject to sub-section (3), upon application by the corporation who made the request, make an order directing the Commission to comply with the request. "(3) The Court may refuse to make an order under subsection (2) in respect of a document or part of a document if the Court considers it inappropriate to make the order by reason that the disclosure of the contents of the document or part of the document would prejudice any person, or for any other reason. "(4) Before the Court gives a decision on an application under sub-section (2 ), the Court may require any documents to be produced to it for inspection. "(5) An order under this section may be expressed to be subject to conditions specified in the order. ". 
Clause 168. 
1 ) The Superior Court of Australia shall not commence to exercise any jurisdiction conferred on that Court by this Act before the day fixed by Proclamation under sub-section 2 (2) of the Superior Court of Australia Act 1974 as the day on which that Court is to commence to exercise its jurisdiction. 
If the commencing date is earlier than the day referred to in sub-section ( 1 ), then- 
until that day, any action, prosecution or other proceeding that could have been instituted in the Superior Court of Australia under this Act if that Court had commenced to exercise its jurisdiction under this Act may be instituted in the Australian Industrial Court; 
Senate 's amendment No. 1 - 
In clause 2, leave out sub-clauses (3) and (4), insert the following sub-clauses: "(3) Subject to sub-section (4), the remaining provisions of this Act shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by Proclamation. "(4) Sub-sections 45 (1) and (2), except so far as they relate to contracts, arrangements and understandings referred to in sub-section 88 (2), and sub-sections 47 ( 1 ) and 49 ( I ), shall not come into operation until the expiration of 4 months after the date fixed under sub-section (3 ). "(5) A reference in sub-section 45 ( 1) or (2) to the commencement of the sub-section concerned shall be read- 
for the purposes of the application of the sub-section concerned in relation to a contract, arrangement or understanding referred to in sub-section 88 (2)- as a reference to the date fixed under sub-section (3) of this section; and 
for the purposes of the application of the sub-section concerned in relation to any other contract, arrangement or understanding- as a reference to the expiration of the period referred to in sub-section (4) of this section. "(6) The power of the Governor-General to make appointments of members of the Commission or to make regulations under this Act may be exercised at any time after the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent but any appointment or regulation so made shall not take effect until the date fixed under sub-section (3). ". 
Senate's amendment No. 2- 
In clause 4, in the definition of "Companies Ordinance" leave out "or, if that Ordinance is amended, that Ordinance as amended". 
Senate's amendment No. 3- 
At end of clause 7, add the following new sub-clause: "(5) A person shall not be appointed as a member of the Commission unless he appears to the Governor-General to be qualified for appointment by virtue of his knowledge of, or experience in, industry, commerce or public administration.". 
Senate's amendment No. 4- 
In clause 17, after sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following new sub-clause: "( 1  a)  Where an interest is so disclosed to the  Chairman  and- 
in the case of an interest in a business- the person carrying on the business; or 
in the case of an interest in a body corporate- that body corporate, is concerned in an application before the Commission, being an application in the hearing and determination of which the member who has the interest is or will be participating, the  Chairman  shall cause the interest to be disclosed to the public". 
Senate's amendment No. 5- 
In clause 29, sub-clause ( 1 ), leave out 'under' (second occurring), insert 'related directly or indirectly to '. 
Senate 's amendment No. 6- 
At end of clause 40, add the following new sub-clause: "(2) Where an interest is so disclosed to the  President  and- 
in the case of an interest in a business- the person car rying on the business; or 
in the case of an interest in a body corporate- that body corporate, is concerned in the proceedings, the  President  shall cause the interest to be disclosed to the public. ". 
Senate's amendment No. 7- 
In clause 45, sub-clause (2), leave out 'that is', insert 'to the extent that it is'. 
Senate's amendment No. 8- 
In clause 45, leave out sub-clause (3), insert the following sub-clauses: "(3) A contract, arrangement or understanding having the purpose or effect of fixing, controlling or maintaining the price for, or any discount, allowance or rebate in relation to, any goods or services supplied by the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding, or by any of them, in competition with each other to persons not being parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding is not in restraint of trade or commerce for the purposes of this Act if the restraint has such a slight effect on competition between the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding, and on competition between those parties or any of them and other persons, as to be insignificant. "(3a) A contract, arrangement or understanding that is not of the kind referred to in sub-section (3) is not in restraint of trade or commerce for the purposes of this Act unless the restraint has or is likely to have a significant effect on competition between the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding or on competition between those parties or any of them and other persons.". 
Senate 's amendment No. 9- 
In clause 46, after sub-clause (2), insert the following new sub-clause: "(2a) For the purposes of this section, a reference to a corporation being in a position substantially to control a market for goods or services includes a reference to a corporation which, by reason of its share of the market, or of its share of the market combined with availability of technical knowledge, raw materials or capital, has the power to determine the prices, or control the production or distribution, of a substantial pan of the goods or services in that market. ". 
Senate's amendment No. 10- 
In clause 46, leave out paragraph (a) of sub-clause (3), insert the following paragraph: '(a) engaging, during the period of 4 months immediately following the date fixed under sub-section 2 (3), in conduct that is of a kind referred to in sub-section 45 (2) or 47 ( I ) but to which that sub-section does not apply by reason of the fact that the conduct is engaged in before the expiration of that period; or'. 
Senate's amendment No. 1 1- 
At end of clause 47, add the following new sub-clause: '(6) This section does not apply with respect to any conduct engaged in by a body corporate by way of restricting dealings by another body corporate if those bodies corporate are related to each other,', 
Senate's amendment No. 12- 
In clause 49, sub-clause (1), leave out 'directly or indirectly'. 
Senate's amendment No. 13- 
In clause 50, after sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following new sub-clause: '(lA) This section does not apply to an acquisition of assets of a body corporate in the ordinary course of business.". 
Senate's amendment No. 14- 
In clause 76, leave out all words to and including 'liable', insert- ' 76. If the Court is satisfied that a person- 
a ) has contravened a provision of Part IV: 
has attempted to contravene such a provision; 
has aided, abetted, counselled or procured a person to contravene such a provision; 
has induced, or attempted to induce, a person, whether by threats or promises or otherwise, to contravene such a provision; 
has been in any way, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned in, or party to, the contravention by a person of such a provision; or 
has conspired with others to contravene such a provision, the Court may order the person '. 
Senate's amendment No. 15- 
In clause 77, sub-clause (1), leave out 'by way of civil action'. 
Senate's amendment No. 16- 
In clause 77, sub-clause (2), leave out 'An action', insert 'A proceeding', 
Senate's amendment No. 17- 
In clause 77, sub-clause (2), leave out 'at any time', insert 'within 6 years'. 
Senate's amendment No. 18- 
In clause 83, sub-clause (1), leave out 'all' wherever occurring. 
Senate's amendment No. 19- 
At end of clause 85, add the following new sub-clause: '(6) Where, in any proceedings against a person other than a body corporate under this Part, it appears to the Court that the person has or may have done an act in contravention of a  provision of Part IV or an act referred to in paragraph 76 (b), (c), (d) or (e) but that the person acted honestly and reasonably and, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, ought fairly to be excused, the Court may relieve the person either wholly or partly from liability to any penalty or damages on such terms as the Court thinks fit. '. 
Senate's amendment No. 20- 
In clause 90, sub-clause (5 ), leave out 'specific and '.  - Senate 's amendment No. 2 1 - 
In clause 92, sub-clause (2), leave out 'has or would have such a slight effect on competition as to be insignificant' insert 'does not have and is not likely to have, or would not have and would not be likely to have, a significant effect on competition'. 
Senate's amendment No. 22- 
In clause 149, sub-clause (2), leave out 'except when it is necessary to do so for the purposes of, or of a proceeding under or arising out of, this Act'. 
Senate 's amendment No. 23- 
After clause 156, insert the following new clause: '156A. (1) Where a corporation makes an application to the Commission for an authorization, the Commission gives a notice under section 91 (4) to a corporation to which an authorization has been given or proceedings have been instituted against a corporation under section 77, the Commission shall, at the request of the corporation, furnish to the corporation- 
a copy of every document that has been furnished to, or obtained by, the Commission in connexion with the matter to which the application, notice or proceedings relates and tends to establish the case of the corporation; and 
a copy of any other document in the possession of the Commission that comes to the attention of the Commission in connexion with the matter to which the application, notice or proceedings relates and tends to establish the case of the corporation, not being a document obtained from the corporation or prepared by an officer or professional adviser of the Commission. '(2) If the Commission does not comply with a request under sub-section ( I ), the Court shall, subject to sub-section (3), upon application by the corporation which made the request, make an order directing the Commission to comply with the request. '(3) The Court may refuse to make an order under subsection (2) in respect of a  document or part of a document if the Court considers it inappropriate to make the order by reason that the disclosure of the contents of the document or part of the document would prejudice any person, or for any other reason. '(4) Before the Court gives a decision on an application under sub-section (2 ), the Court may require any documents to be produced to it for inspection. '(5) An order under this section may be expressed to be subject to conditions specified in the order. '. 
Senate's amendment No. 24- 
In clause 168, leave out sub-clause (1) and sub-clause (2) (a), insert the following sub-clauses: ' 168. ( 1 ) Jurisdiction expressed to be conferred on the Superior Court of Australia by this Act shall not be deemed to be so conferred before a court of that name is authorized under another Act to exercise jurisdiction. '(2) If, at the commencing date, jurisdiction under this Act cannot be exercised by the Superior Court of Australia, then- 
until jurisdiction can be so exercised, any action, prosecution or other proceeding under this Act may be instituted in the Australian Industrial Court as if references in this Act to the Superior Court of Australia were references to the Australian Industrial Court;' 
Senate's amendment No. 25- 
At end of clause 168, add the following new sub-clause: '(3) The jurisdiction of the Australian Industrial Court by virtue of this section is exclusive of the jurisdiction of other courts to the extent to which the jurisdiction of the Superior Court of Australia under this Act is expressed to be so exclusive.'. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
This Bill was first introduced into the Parliament on 27 September 1973. It has now been looked at by both Houses on many occasions. It is a most important Bill. It will, for the first time, provide 
Australia with an effective law dealing with restrictive trade practices. It will also provide, at the national level, long overdue protection for consumers and customers against a wide range of unfair practices. It is desirable that the legislation be brought into operation as early as practicable, particularly having regard to its relevance to inflation. As we know, that is one of the reasonsMr Ellicott- The Opposition does not oppose these amendments, if it is of any assistance to my friend. 
I am indebted to my friend. 
It is not a long speech. With too many price fixing and other restrictive arrangements in this country which are working in the wrong direction as far as efforts to counter inflation are concerned, it is desirable that the legislation be brought into operation with minimum delay and that these practices be stamped out. Some of the provisions prohibiting restrictive trade practices will not become effective until 4 months after the commencement of the legislation, but price fixing arrangements will be prohibited from the outset. The Government has made it clear that it is quite prepared to give close consideration to and, where appropriate, to accept amendments that will improve this Bill. Our objective throughout has been to obtain the best possible law because it has to be a law which is effective, yet at the same time not provide unnecessary problems for industry. 
A number of amendments were made to the Bill in the Senate. Some of these were moved by the Government, and some were moved by the Opposition. There was a large measure of acceptance of the amendments in the Senate, and the amendments leave the basic structure of the Bill intact. They largely concern matters of refinement or further clarification of the meaning of particular  provisions.  The following are among the matters dealt with by the amendments: The commencement provision is changed to provide a 4-month staging in period for the price discrimination provision and to make the prohibition of price fixing agreements effective from the date of commencement of the legislation. Changes are made in the restraint of trade provision in clause 45 in regard to the onus to be borne in determining whether an agreement is outside the prohibition by reason of its insignificant effect on competition. A new provision is included in the monopolisation provision, clause 46, to assist in determining whether a corporation is in a position substantially to control a market for the purposes of that provision. A change is made in clause 76 to emphasise a stricter standard of proof, appropriate to the nature of the proceedings, and the penalty provided will operate in proceedings for pecuniary penalties. A new defence is provided in clause 85 for a natural person- but not for a corporationwhere the person acted honestly and reasonably and in the court's view ought fairly to be excused. A new provision- clause 156 A- is included providing for disclosure to a party, by the Commission, of documents that tend to establish the party's case. The remaining amendments are mainly of a technical or drafting nature. The amendments are acceptable to the Government, and I have moved that the Committee accept them so that the Bill can become law. 
I conclude my remarks by saying that I am sure that my honourable friend will share my view that Australia has been without effective anti-restrictive trade practice legislation for a very long time, for one reason or another. Two of those reasons have been legal challenges in the courts and pressure on governments- previous governments and this Government- by strong, powerful, vested interests. The proposals for a stronger effective law came, in modern times, as long ago as 1962 when  Sir Garfield  Barwick began to espouse the need for legislation of this kind. But for one reason or another it was not forthcoming. Ineffective legislation was produced in 1965. The genesis of this Bill, which we hope will become law today, was in September of last year when the original Bill was introduced by the Whitlam Labor Government. I am sure that all honourable members will agree that in the fight against inflation any legislation which is effective, strong and workable will play a very important part. Some history of significance is being made today when, as we hope, this Bill becomes law. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The Attorney-General's Department has not used any management consultant firms in the last 12 months. 
-As is well known, there is and has been for some little time a worldwide shortage of paper. Resulting from that, consideration has been given from a number of sources to the supply of alternative raw materials for the manufacture of paper. Kenaf is one such material that has been studied and considered. I understand it is a tropical plant of the hibiscus family with woody stalks ranging from 6 feet to 12 feet in height and one inch to 2 inches in diameter. It is grown in some Asian countries as a substitute fibre for jute. 
It has been claimed that it has the great advantage of being ready for harvesting and conversion into pulp after a growing period of only 120 days, which compares with about 20 years for the growing of timber. Limited laboratory scale tests have shown that paper can be successfully produced from kenaf but because it has not yet been grown in commercial quantities full scale commercial and industrial testing is not yet complete. My Department has some additional information and I shall make it available to the honourable member. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
No such amendment of the Family Law Bill is necessary. The Bill enables State and Territory child welfare officers to be used as welfare officers for the purpose of the Act. It also enables other persons, including welfare officers employed in the Australian Public Service, to be used or appointed as welfare officers. Whether it will be necessary as a matter of good administration to use welfare officers other than State and Territory welfare officers remains, of course, to be seen. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will be aware of the Prime Minister's announcement on 18 July 1974 that the Government has established a Committee to advise it on appropriate policies for the development of manufacturing industry. The Committee's report will be published as a Green Paper. 
The terms of reference require, among other things, the Committee to advise on communication between the Australian Government and the private sector and the State governments with respect to the development and implementation of appropriate policies for the development of manufacturing industry. Accordingly I consider it desirable to await the Committee's findings before taking the matter any further. 
Department of the Environment and Conservation: Financial Training of Officers  (Question No. 434) 
I have seen reports such as have been referred to by the honourable member. I think it would not be proper to make comment on them at this stage, but one can only be concerned about the lessons that can be drawn from a situation such as was revealed by the Mainline incident. As was pointed out, I think by the Prime Minister yesterday, in a speech he made in this House, some of the greatest corporations, some of the most eminent and highly placed businessmen in Australia - 
Insurance companies and people, whose solvency and liquidity is just not in issue and never could be in issue, for reasons of achieving their purposes put together a corporate device to extend and further those purposes. When the corporate device failed to serve the purpose to their convenience, they allowed to happen what did happen. I believe it can only be thought and said that there is something quite immoral about corporate behaviour or the use of the corporate screen- the limited liability companyin that way when it brings such hardship on so many people. So far as the direct aspect of the honourable member's question is concerned, I do not know whether the report was suppressed or not, but certainly it is my belief that it was never made public. 'Suppression' seems to be a fair comment and I believe that such reports should be released and made public so that the public themselves can be better protected. I will be happy to communicate with the AttorneyGeneral and put a strong suggestion to him along the lines put by the honourable member. 
I have had an expression of concern made by the Council of the Law Society of Western Australia brought to my notice by the honourable member, and I thank him for it. It has also been brought to the attention of the Attorney-General. The facts seem to be that this proposed legislation would have very serious and adverse effects on the whole question of civil liberties were it to become law. The time has not been available to enable it to be analysed or studied in detail, but some aspects can be touched on briefly. 
For example, the Bill is drafted in extremely wide and vague terms such as certainly would not survive close scrutiny in our Senate. In addition, it makes provision for inspections of premises without warrant. The questioning of persons is also provided for in it. It has certain unsavoury retrospective elements which would constitute an attack on civil liberties. If it became law in its proposed form some acts done before the making of regulations would be rendered criminal subsequently. I understand that the Bill also contains provisions for declarations of states of emergency. It has to be said, however, that there is talk of amendments, so one can only hope that flexibility and good sense will prevail. As far as national organisations are concerned, the honourable member's fears are quite correct in that those organisations would be caught by the provisions were they to become law. It should also be said that the proposed law would certainly be in breach of many of the provisions of the international covenant on civil and political rights. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'Supply 1974'. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Weapons Research Establishment annual report of 1973-74. 
For the information  of honourable members I table 2 documents relating to the proceedings of Australia against France in the International Court of Justice, concerning the prohibition of further atmospheric nuclear tests at the French Pacific test centre. The documents are, firstly, the written proceedings known as the memorial filed by Australia with the International Court on the questions of jurisdiction and the admissibility of the Australian application instituting the proceedings and, secondly, the verbatim report of the oral arguments presented by the Government of Australia on these questions at public hearings held by the International Court at the Hague on 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and II July 1974. 
I rise during this adjournment debate to raise certain matters which were dealt with during the week in earlier adjournment debates and which call for an answer. On Tuesday night the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  raised the question of the level of imports into the country. The matter has received considerable comment recently in the Press and from other honourable members. Honourable members will recall that last year the Government took certain action to reduce tariffs by 25 per cent, and it substantially revalued the exchange rates with regard to the 
Australian dollar. Honourable members will recall also that these steps were taken at the time because of the inflationary impact that was then beginning to hit Australia and because of the universal assessment that the situation was a result of excess demand. One might attribute that excess demand to the failure of the previous Government to take action. But it happened some time ago and it is not proper to make the point again now. There was excess demand, and the problem was how to increase supply. 
This series of steps was taken at that time to bring about an increase in imports. Of course, it was appreciated that certain beneficial forms of structural change to Australian industry might be brought about at that time as well. One must recall that at that time Australian reserves were at an unusually high level, and it must be emphasised that reserves are not something that, having been built up to record level, should be maintained indefinitely. If we are to steady down inflation we must make use of them. This does not mean of course that the Government will allow, or intends to allow, a flood of imports to damage Australian industry. The Government is acting responsibly to prevent undue disruption in that regard. 
The honourable member for Bendigo raised the question of the effect on employment of imports and of our actions to alleviate the problems of 2 industries- the textile and apparel industries. I think he mentioned also the footwear industry. In the early months of this year the textile industry was enjoying relatively buoyant conditions- perhaps unusually buoyant conditions. Reservations were being expressed as to the long term prospects, because one knows that the industry has been in decline for many years. But there was not at that time any demonstrable injury being suffered from imports. As the year progressed the situation did, however, change. 
Following complaints and investigation by the Department of Manufacturing Industry references were made to the Textile Authority, which the Government set up earlier this year, of the Industries Assistance Commission. Action was taken to contain imports of items of knitwear and woven apparel. Import Licensing controls were introduced on imports from Taiwan. Similar controls were imposed yesterday on imports from Korea. The Textile Authority reported marked disruption from imports from Hong Kong, India and China, and export restraint arrangements have been negotiated with these countries. On 11 September 1974 a further reference was made to the Textile Authority on the question of whether action should be taken to contain imports of wool and acrylic yarns, knitted fabrics and towels and towelling. Such action should of course be consistent with the GATT textile arrangement. I should mention also that references in respect of footwear have been made to the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
The Department of Manufacturing Industry keeps, as is natural, an extremely close watch on developments in this ever-changing world, particularly where international trade, the patterns that emerge on textile and apparel imports, and the impact of imports in Australian industry are concerned. The Government will very promptly examine any case of the industry's markets being disrupted by imports to see whether a reference should be made to either the Temporary Assistance Authority or the Textile Authority if it is appropriate. In fact a number of such references are under consideration. 
With regard to the other matter raised by the honourable member for Bendigo unemployment in regional centres, nonme.tropolitan areas- honourable members will also be familiar with the actions taken by the Government. The membership of an interim Structural Adjustment Board has been announced. The national employment and retraining scheme has been announced and is getting under way. Apart from activities of that kind, a special working group of departments has been examining how the Government might provide special forms of assistance to relieve unemployment in country areas through assistance to particular firms which, because of some across the board action taken for the benefit of all Australians, are experiencing some disadvantage both at the owners' level- the management side- and the employees side so that hardship can be avoided and employment maintained. It is expected that the report from the Government's body will be received shortly. It is hoped that the Government will make a decision on it promptly. As honourable members may be aware from newspaper reports, two of the Government's Caucus committees are currently examining the implications of the current unemployment situation and the Government's job retraining scheme and industry assistance generally. 
It must never be forgotten that imports play an extremely important part in our economy. They not only improve Living standards by providing attractively priced goods for our people but also act as a spur to competition for our local industry. They can satisfy freedom of choice and they can be a very salutory instrument for containing the excessive pressures towards inflation that occur in Australia and also come from outside Australia. 
On a related matter- related in the sense that it was raised by the Opposition- the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  last night raised a number of questions concerning steel points and shortages of agricultural machinery. He went on to speculate on some reasons for those shortages.  His  theme was that shortages, including shortages of steel, were due to a lack of confidence by the industry concerned. That is a theme with which the Opposition seems to persist but which cannot be sustained. The facts are that demand for steel-using products is abnormally high at this time not only in Australia but also throughout the world. The major producer of steel points for agricultural machinery has reported a 60 per cent increase in production in the last 12 months alone. Recent surveys of manufacturing activity that have been conducted by the Department of Manufacturing Industry show orders in the major steel-using sectors of industry in the last year or so at levels well above normal. In some cases the orders are double the normal levels. 
It is not reasonable to expect industry to gear itself instantly to substantial increases in demand, be it the industry making steel points, the steel industry itself or any other industry. In the short time available one should stop and be reminded of the troubles that some industries got themselves into by reacting or over-reacting to excessive demand last year and over-developing their capacity. As the demand levelled off they found that they had unused excess capacity that caused them very serious embarrassment and in some cases considerable hardship. Although I do not see it as a causal factor in the sense that the honourable member for Wimmera does, there has been a high level of world demand for steel. The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd has, for several reasons, produced 7.7 million tonnes of steel this year- some 15 per cent below capacity. The Government has assisted in maintaining and increasing local supply by allowing by-law entry of some $35m of special alloy steels of the types used in the manufacture of agricultural machinery. So we reject the concept or the notion that it is a lack of confidence in the steel industry that is producing the shortages. 
Recently announced new investment figures for steel production also demonstrate and confirm the industry's confidence in the future. BHP has announced that it is seeking cost estimates for a major 3-stage expansion of its Newcastle steel works. That cost is estimated to be in the region of $300m. Recently BHP announced, with Government approval, that a $lm feasibility study would be conducted on the establishment of a jumbo steel plant in Western Australia of a size that could be as great as to produce 10 million tonnes per annum. The program of investment clearly indicates that there is no lack of confidence as claimed by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The present plan for operational work at Carnarvon is to continue the phasing out of activities, which as announced in February 1973 began early this year. By 5 October 1974 the tracking staff will have been reduced to one team and the total staff, currently a little less than 100, will have been reduced to about SO. The single team will be retained until 22 December 1974 or the launch of Helios, whichever is the sooner. 
Tracking and data handling equipment is being removed concurrently with the phase-down of operations and most of it is being reallocated to other NASA stations. 
The buildings and service facilities will be almost entirely available to the Australian Government. The Department of 
Services and Property which will be responsible for the reallocation of the land, buildings and service facilities, has their possible future use under consideration. 
The Department of Manufacturing Industry is in continuous liaison with NASA on the phase-down, with a view to minimising its effect on the Carnarvon community. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, the offer by the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to hand over the antenna and some associated equipment and the buildings and services at the Island Lagoon tracking station was declined in September 1973. The reason for declining the offer was that the predicted level of Australian use would not have justified the cost of equipping the antenna for radio astronomy and maintaining the facility. 
Such a statement was reported in the Adelaide Advertiser of 10 October 1 973. It was natural that the dismantling of the antenna should cause concern. However, it is pertinent to draw attention to the fact that facilities superior in many respects to those which were located at Island Lagoon exist at the NASA tracking stations in the Australian Capital Territory and are available for use by Australia. Over the past twelve months only two Australian scientists have used the antenna in the Australian Capital Territory wereas many more users could be accommodated. The costs to the users are small and certainly insignificant compared with prorata sharing of the costs which would have been involved at Island Lagoon. 
The structure of the 26m (85ft) antenna at Island Lagoon was sold and dismantled late in 1973. Most of the station electronic and antenna electro-mechanical equipment was removed for use at other NASA stations. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answers to the right honourable member's questions: 
10. 
The Research Division of the Australian Institute of Criminology, 10-16 Colbee Court, Phillip, Australian Capital Territory. 
) Eight research projects are currently being undertaken by the staff of the Australian Institute of Criminology. These are as follows: 
Survey of Federal Prisoners. 
An Examination of the Effectiveness of Short Term Sentences in Australia, with Consideration of Recent Experience in England and New Zealand. 
A Comparative Study of the Merits and Effectiveness of Suspended Sentences, Community Work Schemes and Weekend Imprisonment. 
) Bail and Remand in Custody. 
Principles of Sentencing Enunciated by Australian Appeal Courts. 
Car Stealing in Australia. 
Formal and Informal Arrangements for the Interstate Transfer of Probationers and Parolees. 
Attitudes Towards Crimes and Differential Punishments Among a Sample of Sydney Citizens. 
In addition to the above, the Institute has an on-going commitment to 'give advice in relation to the compilation of statistics relating to crime' by Section 6(g) of the Criminology Research Act 1971 and in this connection is working closely with the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
$175,913. 
All research projects to be undertaken by the Institute are approved by the Board of Management. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Such cases involve a wide variety of stores. Some main examples would be tables, chairs, filing cabinets, typewriters, tentage, bedding, cooking utensils and gymnasium equipment. 
The criteria generally used are that the organisations are non-profit making and their functions are of a community nature. These groups are normally involved with charitable, educational, health, welfare or like activities. 
-The Government is aware of the announced decisions of the company. It became aware of them the day before they were announced in the Press. That announcement, of course, blamed the Government for what the company had decided to do. I saw officers of the company the day before the announcement and at that time, certainly in large measure, they left me with the firm impression that they had over estimated the demand for their product. It is a very odd feature of the decision taken that only a short time before, a few months, that great plant was opened with a very fine ceremony. Indeed, the honourable member who asks the question attended the opening, as did I. Apart from any over estimation of demand and any fault that might be traced to whoever did the market research for the company- on a contract basis, I understand- there is a set of circumstances that obviously affects the decision. We know that there has been a downturn in the building industry and we know that the building industry consumes glass; that downturn has obviously played a part. We also know that imports have played a role in it and we know that until early this year arrangements existed between Pilkington AO, overseas manufacturers and local glass distributors which had the effect of limiting import competition. We also know that the termination of these arrangements brought increased competition from imports of sheet glass, mainly from Korea, Taiwan and the Philippines. 
As far as I know, no request has been received from the company for any form of assistance that might well be available to it from the Government. On examination, it could well be that assistance is available from the various schemes that have been set up. For example, any employees who might be retrenched could receive special assistance. They should apply for assistance to the Department of Labor and Immigration. The Industries Assistance Commission has recently reported on the need for assistance to the glass industry and this report is currently being examined by the Government. So there, too, legal powers, legal authority, would exist for action to be taken. As I say, to my knowledge and on the information available to me, no request or application has been made to the Government at this stage. 
Pursuant to section 38 (3) of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act 1967-1973 I present for the information of honourable members the seventh annual report of the Australian Industrial and Development Grants Board for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
-I thank the honourable member for the question. Concern has been expressed for many years about the shipbuilding industry generally. Evans Deakin Industries Ltd has indicated to the Department that it certainly is determined to continue in shipbuilding and that shipbuilding will continue to provide continuity of work for the company. At present Evans Deakin is actively seeking future work and is being selective in that regard. The company recently has handed over the tanker 'Robert Miller' to the Australian Government, which in turn has handed it over to R. W. Miller and Co. Pty Ltd. Evans Deakin is to complete the vessel for the Miller company, with the exception of the painting work. Evans Deakin is closely involved with the contractor during the painting. This work is expected to be completed by Christmas. The company is building the Santa Fe semisubmersible oil drilling rig, which will be completed by about February 1975. The company also is building 3 large barges which, I understand, also will be completed by January 1975. In addition, the company is pursuing the usual commercial avenues and ventures. 
It may be of some interest to honourable members if I mention in this context that the shipbuilding industry is extremely well subsidised by the Australian Government. For example, during the last 5 years Evans Deakin received approximately $ 14.4m in subsidies from the Australian Government and during the last 10 years it received the sum of approximately $20.6m. In the industry generally, the level of activity is very satisfactory. For example, 71 vessels are on order or under construction, compared with about 39 in December 1972. There are 35 vessels out for tender, compared with seven in December 1972. My understanding is that in the last financial year about $30m in all was paid to the industry in subsidies. 

 - Mr Speaker, one listened with amusement to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  One cannot help but compare the type of speech he elected to give with the type of speech given by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  They represent different parties. 
-And different areas. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  represents the Australian Country Party and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro represents the Australian Labor Party. While they are still fresh in our minds, it is interesting to reflect on the things about which the 2 honourable members chose to speak in this Budget debate. The Labor member chose to speak about social consciousness, social issues and the democracy that exists fundamentally in the Labor Party. He also mentioned the Caucus. 
I tried to jot down the key words of the harangue by the honourable member for Kennedy. I suggest to honourable members and to listeners that it was little more than a harangue. He made a general criticism of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  being in New York to represent this country at the United Nations and being in Washington, the capital of the United States of America. He also tried to make capital out of the fact that the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was taking the point of view that the Chinese people might be wrong in saying that Royal Australian Air Force officers should not wear their uniforms when they visit China. What is wrong with that? That is asserting the Australian point of view. Yet the honourable member for Kennedy tries to twist it. We are trying to insist on the right of Australian servicemen to wear their uniform. The honourable member for Kennedy used deceit. He took the fact that an Australian Minister asserts the right of Australian officers to wear their uniforms when abroad and he turned it against the Minister. If that is not deceit, I leave it to honourable members to make up their own minds about it. 
The honourable member for Kennedy used such words as 'hogwash'. He said that many meetings of Cabinet took place today. They did not. I am a member of the Cabinet. I tell this House and the people of Australia that there were no meetings of Cabinet today. There were not even the suggestions of any meetings of Cabinet today. Utterances go forth telling the people of Australia that things have happened when they have not happened. There is little opportunity for people to put the record right, but one can only try. The honourable member talked of arrogance, stormtroopers and vassals. It is interesting, because he was talking in the context of the Caucus. We know what the Caucus is in this Parliament. We know the fundamental structural difference between the parties in the Opposition- the Liberal and Country Partiesand the Labor Party. The Labor Party allows its fundamental decisions to be made by the Parliamentary Party, which is known as the Caucus; that is our name for it. 
It is true that it is widely misunderstood outside this place. It is true that some people listening to me talking now think that non-members of Parliament belong to Caucus. Members of the 
Opposition feed on the misunderstanding and try to profit from it They put forward the word 'Caucus' because they rely on the fact that people do not understand it. The Opposition has its own caucus, but it chooses not to call it by that name. I say to the listeners that Caucus consists only of the people they send to the Parliament. It includes no outsiders, and members of the Opposition know it and I know it. 
They are not members of the Caucus, and the honourable member knows it. Yet he relies on this misunderstanding and perpetuates it. He spreads fear and panic. He spreads deceit, confusion and uncertainty. That is all he has to offer the people of Australia. Many of the situations that this country faces now can be traced directly to the influence of the Opposition on affairs. 
Opposition members- Rubbish. 
Let us examine the facts. Let us examine what honourable members opposite have done in Opposition. Let us go back to the election of December 1972 when the people of Australia believed that they were electing a government for 3 years. They did not know the workings of the Senate, which the Opposition controlled. They did not know the Opposition's frustration or the depth of it. They did not know the depth of its pent-up feelings or the arrogance which would not allow honourable members opposite to accept remaining in Opposition for even 3 years but which forced them, out of chagrin and pique, to refuse Supply, to turn off the tap of the fundamental source of money that all governments need to pay their public servants. They did not know that and the Opposition Parties knew that they did not know it. The Opposition relies on that ignorance because it basically rests its case on ignorance. 
The Opposition opposed our measures for increased allocation of funds for education. It says that the Government, because it is doing the right thing, has become unpopular. Then it says: 'Now is our chance'. The Opposition took its chance in May because it could not stand being in Opposition for 3 years. It is talking about it again. If it had its way, because it has the numbers in the Senate, its arrogance and tactics of that sort would result in this country having to go through an election every 6 months or so. No set of plans, no set of proposals, no set of reforms and no management could ever be implemented because no government would ever be able to plan more than two or three months ahead. 
The Opposition Parties will not tolerate the verdict of the people of Australia. That fact comes through in everything they have done in this place and everything they have done when its members go out to the people. What nonsense honourable members opposite talk. One  speaker  on the Opposition side calls us a bunch of socialists and the next says we are fascists. According to my understanding of the terms they are diametrically opposed. The crux of what I want to say by way of criticism of what the honourable member for Kennedy said can be summed up in the word 'Caucus'. Let us grasp the nettle because it is important that the people of Australia understand what the word 'Caucus' means. The honourable member for Kennedy said that Caucus can overrule Cabinet. Of course it can and it is quite right that it should be able to do so. 
It is well known, although not widely enough known, that under a Labor Government Cabinet is the executive of the members of the Parliament who are members of the Labor Party. Members of the Party choose their Cabinet as their executive. But the members of the Parliament are the ultimate basic decision makers, not like in the Liberal Party where there is a fuehrer principle. Members of the Liberal Party elect a leader and say it is all a matter for him. Then they generally shut up except when they throw abuse at us because of our democratic tendencies. 
I came into the House not intending to speak. I brought with me a book by a very great author, John Maynard Keynes, who would be known to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  He wrote on the subject 'Am I a Liberal?'. I speak to the honourable member for Wakefield when I say this because he claims to be a Liberal, I am sure. John Maynard Keynes wrote this in 1925 on why he then thought he should be a Liberal and not a member of the British Labour Party. What did he say about why he turned away from Labour? I appreciate that this argument can be used against me but it is interesting. He said: . . . there are differences between the several parties in the degree to which the party machine is democratised through and through and the preparation of the party program democratised in its details. In this respect the Conservative Party - 
He was talking about the British Conservative Party but this could be applied to the Liberal Party of Australia because we all know that it is a conservative party.  is in much the best position. The inner ring of the party - 
Substitute the Liberal Party of Australia-  can almost dictate the details and technique of policy. 
Substitute fuehrer principle. He continued: 
Traditionally the management of the Liberal Party - 
Keynes was a Liberal himself-  was also sufficiently autocratic. 
He spoke of that with approval. He went on to say that what he found lacking in the Labour Party was that it was in a far weaker position because it was democratic. 
Democracy may well have its problems but let no one make any mistake about where the Labor Party stands on its structural make-up. It is the most fundamentally democratic. I see the honourable member for Wakefield nodding in approval and I thank him because he is an honest man even though he does not belong to our Party. Democracy does pose problems but the fundamental point to make at this stage is not whether democracy is good or bad. Most people would argue that it is good. Everyone knows that the Labor Party is democratic and that it is the most democratic party because it has the Caucus system. The iniquitous and deceitful situation that must be continually exposed is that the Liberal and Country Party Opposition conservative politicians rely on the misunderstanding of people as to what the word 'Caucus' means. They say: 'The Labor Party is run by a bunch of outsiders. It is not democratic. There is something called a Caucus that runs it.' The honourable member for Wakefield knows what the Caucus is. The honourable member for Kennedy knows what the Caucus is. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  knows what the Caucus is. But I have been in this Parliament for 4 years and I have never heard honourable members opposite speak of it in a sense that did not rest firmly and squarely on a basis of deceit; they try to confuse people. 
The question of freedom of the indivdual was mentioned. Let us talk about that. When did the conservative parties of this country ever try to restore free competition, as the Labor Party has tried to restore it through its restrictive trade practices legislation? When did the conservative parties of this country- the Liberal and Country Parties- ever try to give encouragement to small businesses by setting up something like the small business bureau as the Labour Party has done? When did the conservative parties of this countrythe Liberal and Country parties- ever talk about passing legislation that would enshrine the principles of a bill of rights, of personal and human rights, in the Australian system of law? 
They never did it. They reject the concept. The Government does not reject it; it embraces the concept. The legislation is at present before the Senate. But who in the Senate will oppose this attempt by us to enshrine basic principles of human dignity, anti-racist principles and principles of human freedom? Who will oppose it? On arguments based upon deceit the conservative parties of Australia- the Liberal and Country Parties- will oppose it. So much for the argument of who supports human individual freedom. 
The honourable member for Kennedy mentioned storm troopers. Whom did he choose to give as an example of storm troopers? None other than Nugget' Coombs-  Dr Coombs,  the Vice-Chancellor of the Australian National University, ex-Governor of the Reserve Bank. What is the objection to  Dr Coombs,  to the well known and lovable 'Nugget'? What is the objection? Is it that he was asked to lead a team of inquiry to advise the Labor Party when it came to office 18 months or so ago about what was wrong with the spending patterns in terms of social justice and equity and about what was wrong with them as they had been laid down by the previous Goverment the conservative government- so that we could put the priorities right and so that we could do what I heard and what we all heard the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  say with pride in his voice that we have done? 
We have redressed or begun to redress the imbalance. We have begun to put education on to the plane, the plateau, the level on which it deserves to be. The increase in expenditure on education in this country since we came to office has been nearly 400 per cent, or nearly 5 times what the previous Government chose to spend on it, if one allows for, say, a diminution in the value of the dollar by 20 per cent in that same time of 18 months or 20 months- they are unrelated, because we know what caused inflation and the honourable member for Wakefield knows what caused the situation we inherited. The percentage movement of resources towards what we call the needy and the provision of facilities for opportunity, to provide equality of opportunity so that people can benefit from the good things of this life, can be seen. Yet what terms does the honourable member for Kennedy use to describe it- handouts, bludgerism, parasites. 
-No, you did not, but it was implicit in what you said. You forgot that word. 
Implicit in everything the honourable member said was that by spending more money on low cost housing - 
-The honourable member for Kennedy, speaking for the Country Party, speaking for the Opposition Parties, chooses to describe policies that spend more on housing, more on age pensions, more on social services and more on education as encouraging parasitism. That is what he said. 
That is what he said. I wrote it down. The honourable member said that we were power drunk. 

 -Mr Speaker, I paid no attention to him. But we are the Party which chose to move resources in the direction where they are most needed and we are accused of encouraging parasitism. We are called power drunk. We are the Party which believes in such control by the rank and file member of our Parliamentary Party -the backbencher- that we have our committee system and the whole Party is involved in our decision making. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  In the short time that is left to me I single out 2 final matters which sum up the essential basis of deceit on which so much of the argument of Opposition spokesmen rests. The honourable member for Kennedy talked about centralism as if we wanted to concentrate everything in Canberra. He gave an example. He suggested that we were going to let the outback aerodromes of Queensland run themselves. 
-Yet he uses that argument of autonomy for local authorities as being equated with centralism. If that is not putting logic on its head I do not know what is. He spoke in derogatory terms about the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who, more than anyone I can name or think of, has summed up the determination of Australians to own and control their own fundamental mineral wealth. We know what happened in relation to the Fitzgerald report when honourable members opposite were in office. Australia's wealth- its iron, bauxite and other mineral resources- rapidly fell into the hands of overseas interests. It was being sold off at cost. Our children and our grandchildren would have had nothing left. 

 - Mr Speaker, they are hurt by the success and the determination of this Government to buy back a little bit of the estate. They are offended. They fall back basically on deceit as the only argument they can usefully put. Their case rests upon confusion and ignorance. They even turn the case of a Minister who is trying to have Australians run their own affairs and own their own resources and wealth into something that is bad. They want to frighten people. I remember a very great American who would be known to everyone in this House- Franklin Roosevelt. Back in the 1930s he said: 'The only thing we have to fear is fear itself. Honourable members opposite trade on it. That is all they have to offer. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Donald  Cameron) adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Automotive Industry Advisory Panel has been formed and its inaugural meeting took place on 17 July 1974. 
It was my intention to have the inaugural meeting in February 1974, but certain interested organisations had not determined their nominations for membership of the Panel at that time. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) In relation to each of the eleven offices opened to date in all States, various bodies and persons active in the field of welfare have offered assistance. The offices have been open only for a short time and the question of how the service of volunteers can best be utilised is being examined. For example, in the Brunswick office that opened on 19 July 1974, some 36 people have volunteered to assist and fifteen of these have indicated that they would be available for varying periods to staff a night and Saturday morning service. The 36 volunteers comprise seventeen solicitors, one clergyman, three social workers, a welfare officer, an employment officer, three typist/secretaries, one law clerk, one law student, three members of the Citizens Advice Bureau, one interpreter, and four persons who have volunteered to give general assistance, including a member of the State Parliament. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I refer the right honourable member to my reply to question No. 426 relating to the former Department of Supply. In regard to the former Department of Secondary Industry, no officers received such training during 1973-74. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Department of Supply: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures (Question No. 426) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the 12 months ended 30 June 1974, 127 officers of the Department of Supply received such training. 
All of the officers were in the third division, and the majority were in the middle management ranges of the clerical/administrative and professional structures. 
124 were in operational position, 3 were in financial/ accounting positions. 
I also refer the right honourable member's attention to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Parliamentary Question No. 329 (Hansard, pages 626 and 627). 
I have seen reports of the kind suggested by the honourable member in his question. On another aspect of the overall problem, I had discussions with the Attorney-General as recently as this morning before coming into the House. The question of whether this practice amounts to resale price maintenance is certainly under examination. I think it should also be said that there is a considerable amount of disquiet in the community over this unsolicited offer of credit by the banks, done in the way in which it was done. Whatever view one takes of an unsolicited offer of credit through the post in the form of credit cards, one can be very critical and deplore the bad way, the confused way, the uncontrolled way in which the offer took place. I personally hold the view that a great deal of harm comes from the unsolicited sending of material of many kinds through the post to people who have no wish for it at all. It involves a waste of resources, a waste of energy, a waste of effort and manpower, whatever form it takes, but when it takes the form of an unsolicited offer of credit in inflationary times it can also be potentially extremely dangerous. I have been advised- I have not had time to check it- that the practice is outlawed in the United Kingdom and is also outlawed in the United States of America. It is my understanding that the Attorney-General Will shortly be bringing proposals before the Cabinet for its consideration. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member's attention to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Parliamentary Question No. 97 (Hansard, page625, of 24 July 1974). 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
29 and 30 March 1973 (Sydney); 2 and 3 July 1973 (Perth); 19 and 20 February 1974 (Wellington, New Zealand). 
and (3) The proceedings of the Standing Committee are confidential and the transcript of proceedings which is produced after each meeting bears that classification. This is a matter that causes me some concern and 1 propose to raise it for discussion at the next meeting of the Standing Committee. 
In the meantime I am able to disclose that in addition to the protection of privacy, dealt with in parts (4) to (6) of the answer to this question, the following matters were considered at the meetings referred to in part ( 1 ) of this answer 29 and 30 March 1973 
Consumer credit 
It was decided that a draft bill should be prepared to reflect the recommendations of the Molomby Committee. 
Pyramid selling 
It was decided that the Australian Government would consider introducing legislation, but in the meantime the States would proceed with their legislation. 
Law of domicile 
It was agreed that the New Zealand Attorney-General would prepare a draft bill to achieve uniform reforms in the law. 
Custody 
The question of reciprocal legislation was considered, aimed at combatting the flaunting of court orders giving custody of a child to one parent by the other parent taking the child out of the jurisdiction. 
The status of illegitimate children was discussed. 2 and 3 July 1973 
Defamation 
It was agreed that a study should be undertaken with a view to providing a basis for uniform laws relating to defamation throughout Australia. 
Law reform bodies 
It was decided to commission a joint study of ways in which the work of all law reform bodies throughout Australia could be co-ordinated and assisted. 
Companies and securities industry 
The proposal of the Australian Government to introduce legislation in these fields was discussed. 
Maintenance agreements 
It was decided that provision should be made in all States and Territories for the registration and enforcement of agreements for maintenance which have been registered in another State or Territory or in New Zealand. 
Legislative Drafting Institute 
The possible establishment by the Australian Government of an institute for the training of legislative draftsmen was announced.  (0 Foreign adoption orders 
The recognition of foreign adoption orders was to be examined with a view to obtaining uniformity. 
Criminal statistics 
It was decided that the Australian Institute of Criminology should be asked to examine the possibility of achieving uniformity in the method of recording criminal statistics in Australia.  19 and 20 February 1974 
Law of domicile 
It was decided to examine further a draft bill with a view to reforming the law on a uniform basis. 
Foreign adoption orders 
A draft bill on the recognition of foreign adoption orders is to be considered. 
Commercial arbitration 
A model bill is to be prepared with a view to updating on a uniform basis this branch of the law. 
Illegitimacy 
Legislation to remove so far as practicable the legal disabilities of children born out of wedlock was discussed. 
An item on privacy was on the agenda of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General at aU three meetings. On the last occasion, Ministers agreed that the protection of privacy was not a subject upon which complete uniformity could be sought and that the details of legislation should be a matter for each jurisdiction. Each Attorney-General has reserved the right to take individual action in this area as the occasion required. 
Yes, the report was tabled in the Senate on 10 April 1973. 
In September 1973 the Attorney-General established a Committee of Enquiry into the Protection of Privacy. The purpose of that Committee is to consider and to report to the Attorney-General on what legislative measures are desirable in the fulfilment of the general right to privacy, provided for in article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, with particular reference to: 
the collection and storage of data concerning individuals by both public and private bodies, especially in the fields of health and consumer credit; 
the prohibition or regulation of the use of photographic devices and electronic or other listening and recording devices. 
The Committee has presented a report on what safeguards ought to be adopted to protect the individual's privacy under the proposed Health Insurance Program. That report was tabled in Parliament in March 1974. The next task of the Committee will be to examine the question of access to personal information recorded by the Department of Social Security and what measures are necessary to protect individual privacy in these circumstances. 
An Ordinance to create a general right to privacy in the Australian Capital Territory is being prepared. In addition, clause 19 of the Human Rights Bill 1973 would give effect to article 17 of the International Covenant in Civil and Political Rights, which requires persons to be protected against arbitrary or unlawful interference with their privacy. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The passenger car booking service provided by the Stores and Transport Branch of the Department of Manufacturing Industry operates on a 24 hours, 7 days per week basis. The number of staff rostered to receive and allocate passenger car bookings varies between busy and quiet periods. Additionally, in quiet periods the staff perform other duties. Thus it is not practicable to arrive at a meaningful comparison of workload of each of the staff in each State for the continuous service provided. 
However some indication, although with limitations, may be obtained by taking as the basis for comparison the average daily bookings during a recent period of eight weeks. Most bookings are received during the hours 8.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The services of various management consultants have been utilised from time to time to provide highly specialised assistance to the Department as follows: 
To undertake in-depth studies and surveys of specified aspects of Australian industry operations, and to submit reports and recommendations thereon. 
To provide support to the Consultative Services Section of the Technical Services Branch. This section's role is to contribute to the achievement of continuous improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of production and management operations by the application of the management sciences. 
Because of the diverse range of activities in which the Department's many establishments are engaged, it would prove extremely costly to maintain a permanent capability in the areas of skills available as required from private consultants. Accordingly, as the proposed program of improvements progresses, negotiations are entered into with private organisations possessing the expertise most appropriate to particular assignments. 
and (3) Consultants engaged during 1973-74, a brief description of the assignments they each undertook and the cost, are as follows: 
Davy Ashmore Pry Ltd 
To undertake a study and to submit a report on the decentralisation of industry- $50,000 
Arthur D. Little (International) Incorporated Massachusetts, U.S.A. 
To study and report on the electronics components industry-$50,430 
W. D. Scott &amp; Co. Pty Ltd 
To conclude and to ensure the successful implementation of a management information project for Stores and Transport Branch-$93 1 
P.A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd 
To provide assistance in planning and implementation of a structured approach to the design of management information systems- $800 
To provide assistance in a survey of departmental industrial engineering needs- $400 
To carry out an assignment leading to the design of a management information system at Australian Government Engine Works- $600 
To provide training courses for departmental officers in internal consultancy techniques$2,945 
To undertake an initial study leading to the introduction of a comprehensive management information system at Government Aircraft Factories^ 10,000 
John P. Young &amp; Associates 
To conduct a value analysis/value engineering assignment at the Victorian Regional Office of the Department^ 1,600 
Stuckey and Beale Pty Ltd 
To conduct a seminar at the Australian Government Clothing Factory Coburg on new garment technology-$620 
To conduct an industrial engineering project in the cutting room section of the Australian Government Cothing Factory-$ 1 1,3 10 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. The fees payable for a civil marriage ceremony, including one solemnized by a State or Territory official attached to a registry office, are set out in the Marriage Regulations. To provide for varying circumstances, there are several fees prescribed, rather than a single amount. A fee of $5 is payable upon lodgement of the Notice of Intended Marriage. Upon solemnization of the marriage a further fee of $10 is payable if the marriage is solemnized between the hours of 9.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. on a weekday that is not a public holiday (or during the normal hours of duty of a registry office celebrant). If the marriage is solemnized at any other time this fee becomes $15. An additional amount is payable if the marriage is solemnized at a place other than the home of the celebrant (or the normal place of employment if the celebrant is a registry office official). This additional amount is $10 if the distance away from the home (or place of employment of the official) is not more than 30 kilometres. For greater distances the additional amount is one for negotiation. 
Yes. It will be seen from (1) that $30 would be the total fee payable in respect of a ceremony conducted out of normal hours away from, but within 30 kilometres of, the celebrant's home. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the Commonwealth Police Act 1957-1966 I present for the information of honourable members the annual report of the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police Force for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Legal Aid Ordinance 1972 of the Australian Capital Territory I present for the information of honourable members the report of the Australian Capital Territory Legal Aid Committee for the period 1 March 1972 to 30 June 1972. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has been true to reputation, true to his well-known style. 
I will try to do so. It is interesting that the honourable member should single out a service as fundamentally important and valuable as the legal aid scheme for poor people, destitute people and deprived people as having been abused.  His  own colleague, the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  sang the praises of the legal aid service and emphasised the need to increase such service for people who need it. The honourable member for the Northern Territory chose to abuse it in a smear-like way. 
I have no knowledge of what the honourable member ranted about. I will certainly cause inquiries to be made but I am confident that the facts are not in any way like he represented them to be. The honourable member expressed regret that the special duties branch of the Northern Territory Police Force had been disbanded. That body was disbanded for a very good reason. It was a political police force. Its duties were political. Its duties were to study the political views of people in the Northern Territory, to vet people there, to put forward reports on them, to maintain dossiers on them, to receive advice and to pass it on to various agencies. That police force consisted of two or three people. 
Shortly after coming to office, the present Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  ordered that that branch be disbanded- and properly so. Such a force is completely inconsistent with what Australians stand for. We do not believe in that sort of thing at all. It was set up and tolerated by the previous Government. We reject that sort of activity. The direction given by the AttorneyGeneral on it was that if there were overt breaches of the criminal law those breaches should be investigated in the normal way in which breaches are investigated and any case against a person should be brought to trial in the normal courts. So much for the special branch of the Northern Territory police, the closing down of which causes such great concern to the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
Another matter raised by the honourable member concerned the Northern Territory Police Force and the decision to make it responsible to the Australian Government AttorneyGeneral. The honourable member concedes that in the time since that change was made advantages have accrued. From his own lips fell the admission that the equipment and other facilities of that force have been improved. It has to be recognised that there is a basic conflict of interest in situations of this sort. It is my understanding that the scheme which is being prepared will give a large degree of autonomy in the administrative arrangements of the 2 Territory police systems as they exist. They become a part of an overall Australian police system but with a large degree of autonomy in respect of matters such as discipline. Individual members of that police force are given the advantages of a uniform system that is bigger and has better promotional opportunities, more flexibility and greater diversity of work, which will continue to improve the morale and efficiency of the service that that police force can provide to the Australian people. 
I said to the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  that I was not representing the Minister for Customs and Excise in respect of that portfolio in this debate. That is true. But the honourable member spoke about the 25 per cent cut in tariffs. Although he did not emphasise this aspect very much, he related that cut to the revaluations of last year, and that subject is of concern to my Department. So, I deem it proper to say a few words in reply. 
I would argue not. The honourable member talked of Government stupidity. He talked of it on several occasions, using that word. I do not wish to be offensive to him as he was offensive to the Government. But I ask him: What sort of stupidity was it on the part of the previous Government, of which he was a member, when in 1971-72 that Government allowed the money supply in this country to get completely out of control or completely out of hand so that increase in the supply of money circulating in Australia in the latter pan of 1972 and during 1973 was in excess of 30 per cent? That caused in the circumstances at that time in large measure the inflationary flood that hit Australia at the end of 1 972 and early in 1 973. 
I am sure that he knows, if he reflects upon it, that the diagnosis universally adopted by people at that time- I emphasise that they were not the conditions that we have at the moment- flowed from the refusal of the Government of that day to revalue. He was a member of that Government. He will recall the debate which took place in this building behind closed doors for a week in December 1971 when the Party of which he is a member- the Liberal Party- tried desperately to revalue but was not allowed to revalue because of opposition by the Country Party to that action. That is the substance of the reports that went out; it may or may not be true. The fact remains that that revaluation did not take place. 
Overseas funds poured into Australia. Nothing like a variable deposit scheme was introduced. In early 1973, with the Australian dollar very much undervalued, a great excess of liquidity situation existed in Australia, with too many dollars chasing too few goods. What else could the Australian Government have done? We acted firmly, resolutely and properly. I would hate to think of what would have happened in respect of inflation in Australia in 1973 if the Australian Government had not acted to revalue the Aus.tralian dollar and to introduce the 25 per cent cut in tariffs to encourage imports to Australia. I ask the honourable member for Farrer to reflect on that. If one is going to throw stones, one should reflect on the decisions of the previous Government which produced that situation- the honourable member nods in agreement- which was inherited by us. 
-Yes, the former Government had an inflation rate of 4 per cent because it did not do years ago the things which should have been done. I remind the honourable member of the Budget introduced by his Government in 1972. That Government was fighting to survive. It faced a growing unemployment problem- not as great as we have now, it is true- and introduced a Budget providing for a deficit of $660m. That was gross financial and economic irresponsibility. The Government was fighting to survive in an election. I appreciate that fact. What sort of a time bomb did we pick up? 
Let me continue by referring again to matters affecting the Attorney-General's Department. It was with some pleasure that I heard the complimentary remarks which were paid to this Government by Opposition speakers, particularly the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  in dealing with the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. I say, and I have believed this for some time, that of all the achievements of this Government- and they are many- the one that perhaps stands out highest is what we have managed to do and begun to do in forms of law reform. Let me single out a few of these achievements. Some are attempts. Some have failed. Many have succeeded. 
For example, we recognise, as I think many honourable members opposite recognise, that the Constitution needed to be changed. It was desperately in need of reform. But it is very difficult to reform the Constitution. The previous Government never tried. We at least tried through referenda to gain additional authority in this area, but we were refused by the people. That refusal came in large measure because the Opposition opposed what we proposed. It confused the people and put fear into them even though basically it believes, as we all know it believes, that the Constitution is greatly in need of reform. When attempts are made to reform it, opposition to that reform always comes from members of the Opposition. When the Opposition Parties are in office they never do anything about such reform. 
Let me deal with another small matter. Practising lawyers in this chamber will know how difficult it is for lawyers to find their law and how that difficulty is reflected in increased legal costs that they must charge their clients. This is particularly so when Australian Government law, Commonwealth law as it is sometimes called or Federal law, is involved. The statutes where the law largely is to be found are not consolidated No consolidation has occurred since 1957, nearly 20 years ago. The previous Government had 20 years in which to put the situation right and to consolidate the statutes into a single set of books from which lawyers and laymen could find the law. The former Government did nothing about that need. The work was too hard. But we have done it. The first two volumes are now out, and we have been in office for only 20 months. That is only a small matter. 
Let me go on. The previous Government did nothing of consequence about legal aid. Now the Opposition praises us for the actions that we have taken. We had to do what we did and we were the first to set aside substantial funds for setting up an Australian Legal Aid Office. The former Government did not do that. Yet Opposition supporters now rise and say 'You could have done it differently', or something like that. But we did it. We recognised that a great need existed for legal services, whether those services be required to defend a person charged with a criminal offence, to assist a person to assert his legal rights in a civil cause, or to enable a person to defend himself against some charge brought against him by some other citizen. There is a great need to give people access to the courts because our courts are the bastion of Australian liberty. But this access is denied and traditionally has been denied to people with limited means. The position of the rich man is all right. But when it comes to the poor man wishing to go to court and to assert his legal rights nothing was done by the former Government to assist him. This Government has set up an Australian Legal Aid Office and has given large amounts of money to the private lawyers' sector to enable them to provide this service. Also, we have subsidised State legal aid systems. 
A total review of the Australian criminal law is being considered. That law has been in a mess for a very long while. Well known to honourable members is the controversial but important area of divorce law reform. Honourable members may wish to call it family law. This law has not been changed for many, many years- in fact, since  Sir Garfield  Barwick introduced the Matrimonial Causes Bill in 1 957, 1 think. It became out of date and honourable members opposite did nothing about it. The Family Law Bill has now been introduced in the Senate. In a democratic way it is being discussed by citizens around the country. Clergymen groups, non-clergymen groups, humanist groups, lawyers groups, nonlawyers groups, informed groups and others are discussing the Bill. This is an example of democracy working. In the near future we will get an updated, modern and rational set of divorce laws in this country with provision for custody of children and settlement of property disputes between spouses. Honourable members opposite did not introduce legislation covering this. They did not even try. 
I remind honourable members of the restrictive trade practices legislation. For how many years were honourable members opposite put off by the pressure- and being a person subjected to it myself I know how strong it can be- of vested, powerful groups from giving this country a proper set of anti-restrictive trade practice laws? Honourable members opposite knew- we have heard it in their private discussions- that Australia suffered badly by not having any antirestrictive trade practice legislation. America has had it since the 1890s, and so has Canada, the United Kingdom and aU of Western Europe. We were left alone to have our people exploited by monopolies by restrictive trade practices, retail price fixing and aU manner of devices designed to exploit. Honourable members opposite did nothing about it. They fobbed, backed off, excused, explained and found it too hard. But really, behind it all, they yielded to the pressure put upon them by the people who benefited from the system, not the majority of persons who were suffering under it. Now Australia has, for the first time, an effective set of anti-restrictive trade practices legislation. It has been working for only a few months. We will see the benefit of it. 
Who refused to enact any legislation to control the securities industry of this country, notwithstanding the abuses that we know prevail in it? Honourable members opposite did nothing. They knew about the abuses largely because, I suppose, they were associated with the people who perpetrated them. From where did the opposition come for a securities and exchange commission when the Senate committee began to reveal these abuses? There is nothing radical in such a commission. The Americans have had one for 30 or 40 years. From where does the opposition come when suggestions are made to put that industry right so that it serves the community and does not exploit it? It comes from honourable members opposite. From where does the advocacy for it come? It comes from our side. The Government wants to introduce reform. Who opposes it? The Liberal and Country Parties. 
The Liberal and Country Parties believe in State rights to such an extent that they believe the States should be the only parts of Australia to have their own company laws so that those people who are inclined to exploit the system can take advantage of the fact that this country has 8 different sets of company laws- including the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. Who says that is the best of all systems? Occasionally unscrupulous people can exploit the situation. Who opposes our measures to try to have a uniform, single set of company laws for Australia? It is members of the Opposition. Yet, common sense and general acceptance tell us that a single set of laws of that sort for the whole of Australia is desirable. But members opposite, perhaps reflecting the views of the people who support them, oppose it. But progress is being made under this Government. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  touched on the question of an ombudsman. Yes, we have moved to create one. Honourable members opposite had 23 years in which to create one. The honourable member applauds what we are doing, and I thank him for the recommendation. He is critical of a couple of aspects. For example, he does not want the position to be a squib. I can assure him that it will not be a squib. We attach enormous importance to civil liberties. If honourable members care to take the time and look at our platform which is in a written, published form- we began publishing our platforms and policies long before the Liberal and Country Parties did- they will find pages dealing with the importance we attach to civil liberties and to human rights. Honourable members opposite never even dreamed of setting up an Australian ombudsman. Some Australian States have had an ombudsman for years. We are now setting up an ombudsman and it is hoped that the necessary legislation will be introduced in this parliamentary session, notwithstanding the enormous burden of work load of the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel. 
Of all the things that are said about this Government no one has ever said that it is not the hardest working and most industrious government that this country has ever had. When one thinks of the work load of the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel and what it manages to get through in a legislative program for the presentation of Bills to this House and to the Senate it is quite remarkable what  Mr Charles 
Comans and his men are able to achieve. We hope that the legislation dealing with the setting up of an ombudsman will be able to take its place in this current session. The honourable member for Wentworth also mentioned the question of the administrative review committee as it was recommended by the Bland Committee and also by the Kerr Committee. We are going to set up a committee along those lines but under a different name. The Attorney-General has already announced that a Bill to establish an administrative appeals tribunal is now being drafted and that the drafting is at an advanced stage. We hope to be able to introduce that legislation for discussion and consideration in this chamber this session before we rise for the Christmas break. 
Many other points were raised. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  talked about the Sangster case in South Australia. I should like to place on record my general agreement with what the honourable member for Prospect said. He also said that there is an unfortunate tradition in Australia that lawyers and judges are not criticised. They almost seem to be above the forum. I see the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  also nods agreement from the Opposition benches. Speaking as a lawyer- not a practising lawyer these days- I agree there is a conservatism in the law, and that is very regrettable. There is a tendency not to air issues which should be aired in any democratic society. Mention was made of  Mr Jim  Staples, who is an old friend of mine. I think it is to his very great credit that he has managed to bring out into the open, through the media, some of those issues in New South Wales. The case of the refusal of the South Australian judge to allow a salaried lawyer the right to appear before the judge surely reflects an out of date point of view. 
The law is riddled with restrictive trade practices. I mentioned the Trade Practices Bill, but the law is riddled with restrictive trade practices. For example in some parts of the country, and indeed in England, there is a law that limits the right of audience of a solicitor to appear in a superior court. That is a restrictive trade practice or agreement. It does not serve the public interest in many cases. There is the so-called 2 counsel rule that requires a litigant, if he wants the services of a  Q.C.,  to have the services of a junior barrister as well. In many cases it is not necessary. It may be desirable in some cases, but as a requirement it works to the great disadvantage of many lawyers and many litigants. Yet the law is riddled with those sorts of situations. 
The Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court was completed shortly after I came to Canberra in 1963. It is a nice, modern building designed by good architects, presumably. It looks pleasant from the outside. But what was incorporated in it? Cells. There is incorporated a dungeon down below in the bowels of the earth. That barbaric relic of feudalism- a dock- was also put in. This again is just a reflection of the conservatism of lawyers. In this day and age there is no reason why a person accused of a crime should not sit behind his lawyer in a civilised way, as accused people do in many other parts of the world, and not be confined to a dock, even though it is made of polished wood, as a symbol that he is tainted and should be sent off somewhere. The other aspect- of course, this is a measure of this Government's determined efforts to reform the situation- is that we have a system of third party insurance. I practised for many years in the courts which dealt with such matters. I suppose I made a certain amount of money out of my profession in that way. I was well paid for doing that work. But there is something terribly wrong about a system which makes the right to be compensated in, say, a motor car accident depend upon a lottery, and that is just what it is. I will not go on for much longer. 
-The honourable member does not like to hear the truth, because it hurts. In the Australian Capital Territory we have set up a conveyancing office which gives access to cheap conveyancing services to people who might otherwise have difficulty in affording such a service. I started my remarks by saying that of all the achievements of this Government perhaps its greatest has been in the area of law reform. I have listed some of our achievements in that area. There are many others that I could describe, such as the legal aid scheme and the others that I have mentioned. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Transport 
Proposed expenditure, $260, 1 1 4,000, 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Australian Government provides funds on an annual basis to the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board for the provision of grants to Australian manufacturing and mining companies which have incurred research and development expenditure which is eligible for grants in terms of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act 1967-73. Details of grants provided by the Board are outlined in its published annual reports. 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (5) As from 1 July 1974 administrative control of the Research and Development Division of the Department of Manufacturing Industry, including the Weapons Research Establishment, the Central Studies Establishment, the Defence Standards Laboratories and the Aeronautical Research Laboratories, was transferred to the Department of Defence pending legislation relating to the reorganisation of the Defence Force. Answers to the right honourable member's question as they concern the Research and Development Division were provided by the Minister for Defence in response to Question No. 869 on 24 September 1974 (Hansard p. 1764). 
The Department of Manufacturing Industry will continue to operate the Government Aircraft Factories and the Munitions group of factories. In doing so, the Department will be involved in developmental and investigatory (not research) work. Developmental work is undertaken on such as repair schemes for aircraft and testing procedures for explosives. Investigatory work is carried out into problems associated with the manufacture and use of products. The Department has a production development program covering specific main tasks. The scope of the program is dictated by needs and is approved by the Production Board, appointed pursuant to the Supply and Development Regulations, or other departmental competent authority. Also, it should be noted that production personnel became involved in projects of the Research and Development Division from the aspect of developing products so as to facilitate application of manufacturing techniques. 
It has been the practice not to regard activities of the above nature as research and development as such and specific information on the numbers of officers involved and the costs are not readily available. The provision for main production development tasks in 1974-73 is $7. 339m (shown in Division 322) of which approximately SO per cent would relate to effort within the department, the two main activities being IKARA and TURANA, and the balance to effort in private industry where the main activity is BARRA. 
The number of officers involved in developmental and investigatory work in the Department of Manufacturing Industry would be relatively small in comparison with the Research and Development Division. 
-The honourable member's question directs attention to a most important policy initiative of this Government. The scheme of assistance to country towns will break new ground in that for the first time in Australia funds will be available to be paid to firms- not to industries as such- which are facing difficulties as a result of a selective list of criteria which is set out in the Prime Minister's Press statement. It will enable them to avoid retrenchments that they might otherwise have to make, particularly in country towns and cities where the possibilities of alternative employment are slight. In this sense it is a major policy initiative. It will also provide an opportunity to facilitate- I emphasise the word 'facilitate'- structural change where it is desirable, because those of us who have studied the subject know that Australian industry is not and has hardly ever been in an optimum form and structure. It is in the interests of all of us to facilitate the changes that would lead to a better or optimum form and structure. This scheme not only will avoid the hardship that can come so often from the operations of the market place but also will facilitate the movement of resources into those areas where they can be better used. 
One other aspect of the scheme is that it will provide assistance whereby a firm or an industry in some part of Australia which is declining and has little future can be replaced by firms or industries having a great future. It will facilitate the change. It is interesting to note that, when faced with a scheme having such a degree of attractiveness to firms in their electorates, honourable gentlemen opposite have difficulty in accepting its appeal. All they can do is scoff. (Opposition members interjecting)- 
I have already had the opportunity of speaking- (Opposition members interjecting)- 
Pursuant to section 314 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966-1973 I present for the information of honourable members the seventh annual report on the operation of the Bankruptcy Act 1966-1973 for the period 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1974. 
One can sympathise with the sense of indignation expressed by the honourable member in his question. As far as the AttorneyGeneral is concerned, I am advised that the committee has so far not furnished any report on the matter to the Attorney-General and that the only information the Government has received from the committee has been a copy of the Press statement which was forwarded to the AttorneyGeneral's Department. I can say, however, that the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange wrote to the Attorney-General last week seeking an appointment at which he will report to the Attorney-General in greater detail on the results of the inquiries carried out by the Stock Exchange following the publication of the Senate Committee's report on the securities industry. The Attorney-General has in mind making available to honourable members the contents of the report that he receives, subject to proper consideration being given to rights of particular individuals as they might be affected by it and having regard to any court proceedings that may be possible. This will be a matter for consideration on receipt of a report from the Sydney Stock Exchange. 
On the question of whether there is a pressing case for the Government to take over the running of the exchange, the position is that the Government does propose to introduce as soon as possible legislation to provide for regulation of the securities industry generally and stock exchanges in particular, and I think that that is recognised as a measure that is long overdue in this country. The proposed legislation is at an advanced stage of preparation and the Attorney-General hopes to be able to introduce it in the course of the present sittings of Parliament. 
As to one aspect of the honourable member's question where he queried the efficacy of the exchanges levying fines on their own members, there is a comment with which I agree written to the secretary of the Sydney exchange by one prominent member of the securities industry. He puts it in these words: 'It was like fining a member of a football team who maliciously or recklessly injured someone else and then retaining the fine for the team, including the benefit of the member of the team'. Other aspects were raised by the honourable member in his question. I will see that he gets a more detailed answer. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the question. My attention has not been drawn to the notices to which he refers. I will certainly bring them to the attention of the Attorney-General in the Senate. I offer this comment here, having heard the account for the first time: It may well be that some of the provisions in the recently enacted anti-restrictive trade practices legislation might be relevant in this case. But I will bring the matter to the attention of the Attorney and will see that a proper answer is given. 
I think it would be well recognised by all honourable members that a significant number of small businessmen and contractors are adversely affected when certain large corporations fail. We have all had our attention drawn in recent times to the way in which some large corporations, particularly in the area of land development, have failed because they tried to overstretch, particularly in regard to financial matters, and have gone into areas in which they have had little or no expertise. I need not mention some of the firms which I am sure are well known to the honourable member. Other terms that have been used to describe the failures include financial irresponsibility, aggrandisement, not taking account of the economic signs and recklessness on the part of some levels of management in some of those land development concerns which are hardly other than speculative in some ways. It is deplorable when their failure adversely affects so many small and more vulnerable people who have become dependent on the activities on the big land speculators and big land developers. With regard to what should be done, the Government, of course, watches the situation very closely, as indeed it has to. 
I think the Government has done a great deal. It is a pity that the honourable member is not aware of the facts. He mentions a small business-type agency. The Government moved to create such an agency about a year ago. It would have been towards the end of last year that we approved the creation of an Australian small business bureau, its charter being to give assistance in all manner of matters such as consultancy, expertise and access to markets in order to make them more viable. It is true that the organisation is in its early stages. It is hoped that it will grow into an organisation modelled on the American small business agency. It will be represented in each of the capital cities in Australia and will provide some of the services that the honourable member obviously has in mind. I would offer this thought as well: It is a great pity- one has to say it over and over again- that Australia had to wait for so many years before initiatives of this kind were taken. Indeed we had to wait for a Labor Government to come into office before initiatives of this sortthe creation of a small business bureau- which assist small businessmen were taken. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for his perseverance and I can positively and as vigorously as I am able reaffirm that policy that he refers to. The Government has taken a number of actions during the last 12 months related to the textile industry and many of them, of course, relate to the situation in Launceston. I should add that no group of people has been more active in bringing about this action than the - (Opposition members interjecting) - 
-No group of people has been more active in making representations to the 
Government on the situation in cities like Launceston than the Labor members of Parliament from Tasmania. The situation has its amusing side. We are told that the Leader of the Opposition recently went down to Launceston with some of his colleagues and spoke about the need for the creation of a textile authority to assist the textile industry. That is an indication of his lack of knowledge of the situation. A textiles authority of that very kind was created perhaps more than a year ago, created at the request of the industry, set up as a special authority, for that special industry, within the Industries Assistance Commission, and was received with praise from the industry groups concerned. Honourable members will recall that in April or May of this year, during the election campaign, a reference was made to the textiles authority, the first one - 
I was saying that the first reference to that textiles authority, apparently not known or at least not appreciated by the Leader of the Opposition, went to the authority in April or May of this year. It reported in the affirmative in the case of some aspects of the textile industry and not in the affirmative in the case of others. For example, it held that a case had not been made out in respect of woven shirts. We then instituted immediately a system of negotiating voluntary restraints with overseas exporting countries- Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, India and the People's Republic of China- with considerable success. It is also apparently not known by the Leader of the Opposition that on 1 1 September 1974 another reference went to the Textile Authority, of which he is not aware, asking it to investigate a whole new wide range of yams and knitted fabrics, towels and towellings. Its report is expected to be received on 1 1 
November, which is only a week or so off, because there is a 60-day time limit on these references. When that report is received it will be immediately and promptly considered by the Government. 
It also should be appreciated that under the legislation setting up the Industries Assistance Commission the Government cannot legally take action unless there is a reference to the Commission and a report received from the Commission. The Government has been very prompt about these matters. In recent times we have taken other steps, as the honourable member for Wilmot put in his question. We have announced the commencement of a new, novel, far reaching scheme to give selective forms of assistance to firms established in country cities and towns which might be having difficulties. In that situation, if an application is received and processed by the Department and is accepted as being valid money will be paid to that firm to prevent its closing down, to prevent its retrenching people. It is not only an instrument to alleviate hardship and to stop retrenchments occurring, it is also an instrument- a device, if you like- to facilitate moves by firms in country towns into more profitable areas. If they in their best judgment deem that they would be better off employing their people in that town in some other area of activity, the Government will assist them to do so. So it is a new, quite novel and important initiative by this Government. 
In addition there is the regional employment development scheme- RED- which is administered by my colleague the Minister for Labor and Immigration and which is also designed to fund moneys to towns like Launceston in Tasmania so that they can better improve facilities in those towns-the infrastructure, the building of recreational community halls and houses and that sort of thing- so that the people in them have a better standard of life. Of course behind it all is the NEAT scheme- the national employment and training scheme. In conclusion I might add one final thought. We have recently decided to widen the terms of reference to the very Textile Authority which the Leader of the Opposition does not seem to have heard about yet, even though it has been operating, and operating well, for over a year. 
It is always a pleasure to listen to the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  because although he speaks from the opposite side of the chamber he makes good sense and it is always a pleasure for someone in Government to hear serious constructive criticism and not- I hesitate to use extravangant language- the silly type of criticism that one heard earlier in the debate from 2 spokesmen for the Opposition, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten).  That is not helpful. The honourable member for Balaclava singled out 3 matters in relation to which he, in part, applauded the Government's initiatives and I thank him for that. One was the industry panels. We are quite proud of them. I take his point that in the beginning it was thought by some people that they might be a gimmick or something of that sort. They were never intended to be such. They were intended to be a serious effort to build a bridge of communication between the Government and industry- a bridge which never existed previously- and they have been very successful. Nine panels have been created to date and more are on the way. 
The honourable member for Balaclava also mentioned the staffing problems of the Department of Manufacturing Industry. I thank him for the plug because there are staffing problems in the Department. The honourable member will forgive me if I say that they stem in part from the very low priority given to manufacturing industry or secondary industry, as it was called by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It was then little more than an office in the former Department of Trade and Industry and had little more than 100 people attached to it. It is from that small seed that we have commenced to build. We have made great progress. The present Department of Manufacturing Industry is still not much bigger than it was then in terms of overall numbers, although it has had people from the Department of Supply added to it. It, of course, operates government factories and things like that. Here we come to a problem that is the subject of controversy. As honourable members know, the Government has imposed a limit of one per cent on the growth rate of the Australian Public Service. That has been done for very good reasons. One is usually applauded when one thinks of trying to avoid unnecessary expense, but one also has to pay a price for it when one tries to build up an instrument of policy, namely, the Department of Manufacturing Industry, because one catches it in that way. 
The honourable member for Balaclava also mentioned the National Small Business Bureau which we have created out of the recognition which it seems he shares with us that the problems faced by small businessmen in Australia are unique, peculiar to themselves and very important. The Small Business Bureau is little more than a beginning. As I said this morning, we hope to build it into a structure which will have agencies in the various State capitals. My recollection is that at the moment it has received approval from the Public Service Board to fill only 20 positions, which is just a shell really. It is also caught up in the one per cent growth rate limit, which makes things difficult. But we have great hopes for it. We hope that it will grow into something even more useful than it is at the moment. The other matter on which I wish to reply to the comments of the honourable member for Balaclava is in relation to his mention of the desirability of a debate on the Small Business Bureau. I share that desire with him. If time permits such a debate to be held before the break for Christmas we will certainly try to bring it about. 
So many things have been said in this debate by honourable members that if one were to try to single out the serious points one would not have time to deal with all of them. The first Opposition  speaker  in the debate was the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  who - 
It was an interesting speech. It was an exercise in politics from a man who has not had much experience in politics. I recall that it was his Party- the Liberal Party of Australiawhich supported the Government's proposals to create the Industries Assistance Commission, and I well recall being in this chamber when the honourable member for Berowra, drawing on his academic expertise in that much maligned area of academia- supported what the Government was trying to do when he supported the proposition for increased rationality in Australian industry policies. I remind him that if one goes back to 1973 and examines the comments made by publicists and by people from his own exprofession one will find that generally it was invariably said during 1973 of the Government's economic measures that they were spot-on. It was invariably said in general terms. There were differences of opinion and differences of emphasis, but how often did I hear it said, and I am sure the honourable member for Berowra heard it said, that whether one agreed with the Labor Party, whether in government or not, one could not fault the Australian Labor Party's economics. That was said all throughout 1973. 
-Yes, you can. I repeat that it was said that our economics could not be faulted. The interesting thing is what happened a year later- this shows the frailty of human naturewhen industry is suffering certain difficulties. One could call it a business downturn, as the honourable member for Balaclava called it. That is exactly what it is. It is a business cycle downturn. He at least was frank and honest. The people who applauded the economic measures in 1973 are now trying to find something wrong with them. I do not wish to take up too much of the time of the chamber because we have to move on to the estimates for the Department of Education, but I venture this suggestion: If this Government lasts for 10 or 20 years - 
It may well do so. If this Government lasts for 10 or 20 years people will look back on it and say that one of its greatest memorials, one of the great monuments it left behind of its time in office, is the system of rationalising Australian industry, of structural change, of introducing reason and not the pork barrel into the conduct of Australia's industry. It was the pork barrel that operated when the present Opposition was in office. We have sought by the Industries Assistance Commission to collect the experts whose judgment the Opposition generally applauds. At the moment an exercise is going on which every industrialist and every trade unionist in the nation applauds, that is, the inquiry through the Australian Labor Party's parliamentary committee on economics into the motor car industry. There, in a public and reasoned way - 
-Let us just test that comment. We have had praise coming from the General Manager of the Ford Corporation,  Mr Inglis.  Praise came from the general manager of General Motors (Holden's) Pty Ltd and also from  Mr Perkins  of the Chrysler organisation. (Opposition supporters interjecting) - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  Interjections will cease or I will take action. 
A rational decision making process was introduced into this country for the first time, something unheard of in the day of the former Government. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Berowra will cease interjecting. 
-One looks back to the policy of tariff reform, which is continuing. One looks back also to the revaluations that took place during 1973. Those revaluations occurred for a particularly relevant reason. The Government which had been in office for so long, and which was supported by honourable members now sitting opposite, had left the Australian dollar so undervalued that the Australian money supply became completely out of hand in 1972-73 and let loose a flood of inflation which hit us. Now, when we start to soak it up a little bit as we did in 1973, honourable members opposite call our action a credit squeeze and abuse us. 
I could go on. Let us look at the industries that are involved in this situation. I have mentioned the motor vehicle industry. I turn to the textile industry which has been adversely affected because of situations that existed in 1973. But think of the rational way that we have gone about attending to this problem. Think of the reference to the Textiles Authority. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in Launceston the other day talked about the need for the creation of a textiles authority. He was forgetting, or did not know, or did not care or was indifferent to what the truth was, that a Textiles Authority at the request of the industry had been created in the Industries Assistance Commission as long ago as November or December of 1973 and was engaged on its second reference. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! I have already issued a warning. Interjections are to cease. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  but it is rather amusing to see them with their difficulties. The Textiles Authority is now engaged on its second reference. All the reports that have come from the Authority have been acted upon promptly by the Government through a system of voluntary restraints. I have heard it said- I do not know whether it is correctthat even the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  in Tasmania the other day was saying that what was needed was a system of voluntary restraints. I do not know whether he said that. But he sits opposite; if he did, he would know or he should know that this is exactly what we have negotiated in the terms of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade with India, China and Korea- no, not with Korea because it would not be in it and we had to take action unilaterally at our own end pursuant to our international agreements under the GATT arrangements. 
Let me go further. The position is the same with respect to footwear. Various instrumentalities have been created by this Government. There is the Structural Adjustment Board and the national employment retraining scheme. Additional assistance has been provided for inventors. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  was good enough to compliment us on that action. Substantially increased funds have been provided for research and development. Wherever one turns one will see innovations and initiatives together with mechanical devices brought into being by this Government in the short period that it has been in office. These actions should have been taken in this country 20 years ago. We embarked upon a course that Canada, for example, with great prosperity and result to it did IS years ago. In 1973-74, our country is now taking this action for the first time. The parties supported by honourable members opposite should have done this 20 years ago, but it never occurred to them. They believe in the pork barrel principle; doing things for their mates. We have put our actions in the framework of a proper system based upon competition and reason. 
I will not take up much more time in my speech. Let me finish on one point. 
-I will finish on one point. 
I will mention one point about ship building. The honourable member for Griffith mentioned Walkers Ltd. Walkers was sick and tired of being flooded out. As the honourable member would know it was flooded out 4 times in 18 months. The honourable member comes along and utters the nonsense we heard from him a little while ago. 
The final point that I wish to make is this: Not long ago the Government appointed a Committee to prepare a Green Paper on manufacturing industry in Australia. The  Chairman  is  Mr Jack  of the CSR company. Included on that Committee are  Mr Carnegie  of the Conzinc Rio Tinto company, Professor Wheelwright,  Mr Bob  Hawke of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Secretary of my Department and the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission,  Mr Rattigan.  The membership represents a complete cross-section of Australian interests. That Committee is working now. In the long run the products of that Committee's work will have an enormous significance for Australia. If we are to continue to build a rationally, properly allocated industrial basis for Australia, taking advantage of international trade and being able to sell to people in order to buy from them, so we can take advantage of the things that they do well and they take advantage of the things that we do well, Australian industry will have to be based on a rational, sound set up and must not remain in the way it was left by honourable members opposite when we took office. 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
See table hereunder. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because of the special action taken by the Government to seek alternative workload to replace falling defence requirements, retrenchments have been avoided in all the Australian Government factories, including the Ordnance 
Factory Bendigo. Defence requirements have been falling for several years. Over the 1 8 months ended December 1 972 the workforce at the Ordnance Factory Bendigo fell by 22. Over the past 18 months the reduction has been about 20. This reduction has resulted from not replacing employees leaving of their own accord; there have been no retrenchments. 
The Joint Committee of representatives of departments and employee organisations which was established by the Minister for Defence in September 1973 to seek workload for the factories so as to avoid retrenchments on 1973-74 has been reconvened with broader terms of reference. The Joint Committee is examining medium and long-term workload prospects in the defence and non-defence government areas and in the private sector. 
It is the policy of the Government to use the valuable resources of the Australian Government factories wherever practicable. The importance of employment opportunities in country factories is specially recognised by the Government. 
Department  of  Supply: Inter-departmental Committees  (Question No. 304) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The previous Department of Supply maintained a record of only standing inter-departmental committees which it chaired or which were convened by other departments and on which it was permanently represented. 
1 refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the 1 973 Notice Paper ( Hansard, 27 September 1 973, page 1 7 1 4) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which departments are engaged with other departments. The Department of Supply kept me fully informed of all important developments- this was a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of that Ministry. 
Department  of  Manufacturing Industry: Inter-Departmental Committees  (Question No. 428)  Mr Snedden  asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1488 (Hansard, 13 December 1973, page 4820) in which he indicated that his Department maintains a record of interdepartmental committees in which it participates, does the list include (a) standing and (b) ad hoc committees. 
Has he sighted the list and does he intend to sight it on a regular basis. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The answer to question No. 1488 applied to the previous Department of Secondary Industry: The list included standing inter-departmental committees but not ad hoc committees. 
No. The Department of Manufacturing Industry keeps me properly informed of all important developments- this is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my Ministry. 
Department  of  Aboriginal Affairs: Demonstration by Officers  (Question No. 496) 
I thank the honourable member for the question. I am aware that there has been and still is a very considerable shortage of tractor tyres in Australia and, indeed, throughout the world. This shortage has been caused largely by an unprecedented growth in demand for tractor tyres and an inability of manufacturers to install additional capacity quickly. One major Australian manufacturer of tyres is now in the process of installing additional capacity and expects to double his existing production early in 1975. But that does not help the present situation. The tyre mentioned by the honourable member, that is, the 10 x 28, is a small profile, rear wheel tyre which is now not in general use and is not made by most local manufacturers. It has been replaced by an 1 1 x 28 size tyre, which is readily available in Western Australia and elsewhere. However, if the 10 x 28 size is particularly required, I understand it can be supplied still from overseas sources with about six or seven weeks delay. 
-One would need to be here for a week to give a complete answer to the honourable member's question. Suffice to say this: My attention has been drawn to the reported remarks of the Victorian AttorneyGeneral. If he is correctly reported, his remarks show a degree of conservatism and a degree of irresponsibility that are hard to comprehend. The remarks, as I understand, were to the effect of seeking to have the Constitution interpreted as if it was a social compact between people, now dead, who lived in the nineteenth century. 
The simple and short answer to the honourable member's question is that there have been no breaches of the Constitution as the Victorian Attorney-General alleges. What should be appreciated by all honourable members, and will be appreciated by lawyers on the opposite side as well as on the Government side, is that the Constitution is a living thing. It is not a rigid, never changing document. It is interpreted by the courts. The interpretation given to it by the courts over the years has changed it enormously from the way in which it was conceived to operate back in the early years of this century. 
It is true also that the other way of changing it- by referendum- has been largely unsuccessful. But the way in which it is used constructively and properly is very important also because, I repeat, it is a living document and it can be interpreted and administered as such. This Government seeks to give effect to its policies of greater social justice, more expenditure of money on education and increased spending on welfare and social services, within the constitutional framework. It uses the power under section 96 and it uses the appropriation power of section 8 1 in that way. 
We should never forget also, I would suggest, that behind the written form of the Constitution lies a kind of power relationship that existed in the nineteenth century but which changes. When people like the Victorian Attorney-General- a Liberal Minister in the Victorian Parliamentspeak as though they want it to go back, they speak of advocates for the existence of this power relationship in a community that existed then and which was based essentially on privilege and elitism; something which this Government rejects out of hand. 
I agree with the honourable member that there is apprehension. Some degree of concern is occasionally expressed by businessmen about the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission. It is a pity because there can be little doubt that the IAC performs a very valuable role in Australia. There can be equally little doubt that over the years of all the subjects of great importance to Australia, to Australian manufacturing industry, to the management side, to the employees' side and to the consumersbecause in the long run we are all consumersthere has been a lack of understanding of the relevance and the importance of this thing called protection, its advantages to Australians and also the costs and disadvantages that it presents to Australians. Behind that, of course, there is the other concept that these days is called structural change, which again is a matter on which there is very little informed debate. There is a lot of misunderstanding and a lot of prejudice about it. 
One understands the feelings of a businessman who suddenly appreciates that it may not be in the interests of all Australians in the long run for his particular business to continue. We can understand his concern. Since this Government came to office it has taken great steps to lift that debate to higher levels, to encourage it and to encourage discussions, through the industry panels, of the question of protection and what it means, the question of the tariff and the level of the exchange rate. As is also known on the Government side- it is to be regretted that it does not exist on the Opposition side in the Liberal and Country Parties- there is a degree of involvement by the back benchers of this Party through the Caucus system that involves an active participation in the decision making process. The most recent example, of course, is the discussion in the Caucus Economics Committee dealing with the IAC report on  motor  vehicles. As I say, it is a great pity that the Liberal and Country Parties have no equivalent form of involvement for their back benchers. 
I took it upon myself this morning, as part of this emphasis that we give to these matters to contact  Mr Rattigan,  who is the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission, and inquire whether he would be interested in attending and discussing with the Economics Committee of Caucus the overall philosophy and approach of the IAC on these matters. I am happy to tell the House and my own colleagues that he has accepted the invitation. I also took it upon myself first to seek the concurrence of the Prime Minister because he carries the direct ministerial responsibility for the IAC. I have also discussed it with the  Chairman  of the Caucus Economics Committee. Contained in that recent annual report of the IAC is a set of principles that is worthy of study by all members of this House. One can only with great difficulty challenge their logic. One, of course, has to accept the difficult political problems that they often present for political parties, particularly when they are in government. But putting aside the politics of it, one has great difficulty in faulting the logic of the statements of principle contained in that annual report. I will conclude on this note. At least the Economics Committee of our parliamentary party and our back benchers will have the advantage of close intimate discussion with the man who propounds those principles and who has such a great influence on the discussion of protection in Australia. It is to be regretted- and I look at the Liberal people opposite- that you do not do the same sort of thing. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information (Hansard, page 1317). 
I also refer the right honourable gentleman to the Prime Minister's answer to his further question without notice on this subject on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answers to questions nos. 964 and 1057 (Hansard 27 September 1973, page 1714 and 24 October 1973, page 2665). 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3)-See (1)above 
For the information of honourable members I present 3 reports prepared for the Department of Supply entitled: 'Central Studies Establishment Annual Report 1973-1974'; 'Defence Standards Laboratories Annual Report 1973-1974'; and 'Aeronautical Research Laboratories Annual Report 1973-74'. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Delegation to the Diplomatic Conference on Wills held in Washington D.C. on 16-26 October 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There were three compounding errors in handling this matter (a) it was not necessary to advertise all the positions in the Press; (b) it was not necessary to advertise the positions so widely; and (c) proper consideration was not given to the form of advertising. The incident, although isolated, is regrettable and action has been taken to strengthen procedures so as to avoid any recurrence. 
$17,200. 
The answer to the right honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1) No sales of the Ikara anti-submarine weapon system or missiles have been made to any country since S December 1972. Deliveries have been made to the United Kingdom, against an order received prior to S December 1 972. Part delivery has also been made of the Ikara weapon system for the Brazilian Navy frigates, ordered prior to 5 December 1 972. 
The items delivered were supplied by the Australian Department of Manufacturing Industry. 
Supply of Australian weapons systems requires specific approval by the Australian Government. When such approval is given, the party to whom the sale is approved is required to enter a contractual undertaking that the equipment will not be sold or transferred to a third party unless prior consent is obtained from the Australian Government. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
337. 
The educational standards of the recruits are: Low Secondary, 66; Mid Secondary, 209; High Secondary, 52; Tertiary, 9. 
The recruits came from all States and the Australian Capital Territory. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Limitations are in accordance with Australian Government policy on the export of defence equipment. Administration of this policy is vested in the Department of Foreign Affairs. My reply to Question No. 1078 is applicable. 
There has been no approach from Chile to purchase Ikara. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Jindivik is an unarmed pilotless aircraft developed to provide an aircraft-like target against which to fire missiles during either research or development or Service training; on a few occasions it has been used for allied purposes, for example to measure high-altitude clear-air turbulance. In the period January 1973 to mid-October 1974, one new order was received, for 32 aircraft, from the United Kingdom. 
Currently averaging about I aircraft per month. 
Forty aircraft, being 8 for the RAN and the new order for 32 referred to in ( I ) above. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Service and Execution of Process Act 1901-1973 to express distances referred to in the Act in terms of kilometres rather than miles. The change arises of course out of the metric conversion program. Under section 5 of the Act every writ of summons to which an appearance is required to be entered by the party to whom it is address must contain a notice requiring that party to show on his appearance an address for service of documents within 5 miles of the office of the court out of which the summons is issued. Section 9 of the Act makes a similar requirement in respect of appearances entered by or on behalf of a defendant to a writ of summons served under the Act in accordance with the requirements of the metric conversion program it is necessary to remove these references to miles and insert appropriate distances expressed in kilometres. It has been decided to provide in sections 5 and 9 of the Act for distances of 10 kilometres in each case, this being a conveniently rounded figure. 
The amendments made by the Bill are, by clause 4, to apply to any writ of summons issued after the commencement of the Act and to any appearance entered after that time, including an appearance to a writ of summons issued before that commencement. The Act would of course commence on the 28th day after it receives the royal assent. As 10 kilometres is a slightly greater distance than 5 miles the change has the effect of allowing parties to summonses served and appearances entered under the Act a greater radius within which an address for service must be shown. I have given my colleagues, the Attorneys-General of the States, and the legal profession generally notice of the proposed amendment so that parties affected by the change may be aware of what is intended. The amendments set out in the Schedule to the Bill are of a purely formal nature, for the purpose of applying current drafting practices to the provisions of the principal Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) to (4) I refer the right honourable member's attention to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Parliamentary Question No. 41 (Hansard, page 2233 of 3 October 1974). 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States  (Question No. 66)  .  Mr Snedden  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide a list of all formal committees, councils, etc., that have been established which enable him or officers of his Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers. 
) When was each body established and by whom. 
What is the (a) composition and (b) function of each body. 
On what occasions has each body met in the last 2 years and for what purpose. 
-An interdepartmental committee has been considering the situation in Launceston, and its report has been received. It is true that it deals with the employment situation in Launceston, in particular as it relates to the textile industry. I can tell the honourable gentleman and the other members of the House that a very important measure was announced two or three weeks ago which will give considerable assistance to firms in Launceston. That scheme of assistance is designed to give selective forms of subsidy assistance to firms in non-metropolitan areas. The essence of the scheme is that if a firm is having difficulties of various categories and it brings itself within the entitlement that will be spelt out in the scheme then a sum of money, a grant, will be given to the firm to enable it to carry on and avoid retrenchments. The scheme has considerable significance not only as a means of giving assistance to firms which might be undergoing temporary difficulty but also as an instrument of policy designed to advance structural change in industry generally. It is a very major new initiative of this Government. I hope that at the end of this week, or at the latest early next week, a series of advertisements will appear in newspapers around the country informing people of the facilities being made available in this way. 
I am aware of certain decisions taken by the company in recent times and indeed I have had a number of discussions with senior officers of the company, the most recent of those discussions having taken place only last week. A number of allegations has been made concerning the situation as it relates to the company. For example, one allegation is that the difficulty flows in large measure from the import competition referred to by the honourable member. It has been suggested that the company is itself partly responsible for that import competition, either because of its associations with overseas exporters or in other ways. That matter has been the subject of discussion with officers of the company. 
I should add that import competition is sometimes put forward to suggest that, in large measure, unemployment as it exists in Australia today flows from it. The most recent figures available to me negate- rebut- that suggestion. The last figures I have seen- I believe I am correct in saying that they go to the end of Octobersuggest that the amount of unemployment attributable to import competition is certainly less than 10 per cent and is in the area of 7 per cent of the total. If that is correct one gets to the situation where unemployment is part of a cyclical downturn and the decisions of companies like 
Pilkington ACI to retrench a number of their employees and to suspend operations are in large measure related to the cyclical business downturn which exists in Australia at the moment. 
As the honourable member knows, the Government has taken a number of very active and imaginative steps in recent times to stop that cyclical business downturn. I refer to the Budget and the Government's monetary policies and fiscal policies. A time lag is involved but it is confidently expected that these steps will be very successful. Many of the decisions taken by Pilkington ACI relate to the situation in the motor vehicle industry and the building industry. That is as far as I can go, but I will be happy to give the honourable member any additional information he seeks. 
-(Canberra-Minister for Manufacturing Industry)- For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Police for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian aircraft industry was represented at the 1974 Farnborough Air Show: the Ikara anti-submarine weapon system and the Turana target aircraft were displayed by our U.K. agent for these products-Hawker Siddeley Dynamics. The Nomad aircraft was not exhibited at the 1974 Farnborough Air Show, but this is not expected to adversely affect the sales position. A prototype was displayed at Farnborough in 1972. The next appropriate step in the sales promotion program will be to display and fly a production version of Nomad. The first opportunity to do this at an international air show will be in Paris in June 1 975 and my Department has this possibility under serious consideration. 
An invitation to exhibit was received by the Government Aircraft Factories. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
Nil. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The right honourable member will be aware that on 28 October 1974 I announced a major Government assistance scheme for Australian inventors. An amount of $228,000 has been made available in 1974-75 to provide advice and assistance to individual Australian inventors where this is not available from existing Australian Government facilities, and to administer the scheme. The assistance given will be directed toward the early development stage of invention; that is, before the invention has been granted a final patent. Beyond this, inventions would more appropriately be taken up by other Government assistance programs, or by industry. The new program, which will commence operations in the near future, will be reviewed in three years. It is administered by an Advisory Committee responsible to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry and assisted by Panels in each State. The Government recognises the importance of encouraging the work of private inventors and will be adapting arrangements to suit needs as indicated from experience in applying the new program. 
I recall the answer I gave some time ago to the honourable gentleman's question as to why the Special Branch was disbanded. I repeat that one of the best and earliest actions taken by this Government was to dismantle a political arm of a police force which operated in Australia, because it was iniquitous and went completely against everything for which this Government, and I am sure every Australian, believe in and stand for. I have no knowledge of the allegations made by the honourable gentleman but I am happy to express the opinion that the allegations, if true, would be completely inconsistent with everything that this Government stands for. Naturally I will direct the inquiry to the Attorney-General. May I add that this is typical of the form of question that comes from the honourable gentleman in that he seeks to associate the legal aid scheme- a system designed to assist ordinary citizens of Australia, particularly those on low incomes- with something that is wrong and to smear and slur it in some way. It is quite typical. This is a pattern to be found running through all his questions. Having said that, I add this thought: It is well known that the deliberations of jurors is a matter for them and them alone. The anonymity of discussions in the jury room is something that is essentially basic to the administration of justice in Australia and comes to us through tradition from the United Kingdom. 
It is understandable that speakers in this chamber should engage in debating points, but on a matter as serious as this it is perhaps to be regretted that Opposition spokesmen try to score points all the time. For example, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in his speech referred to unemployment in Australia being trivial compared to what it is overseas. That is all he meant. He stressed the seriousness of it generally to any Labor government but the triviality of Australia 's unemployment compared to what it is overseas.  His  words were taken completely out of context and twisted as would cheap schoolboy debaters. 
The seriousness with which the Opposition takes the point can be appreciated if one reflects on the fact that since this Parliament resumed in this sessional period on 17 September some 14 matters of public importance have been raised for discussion. As Minister for Manufacturing Industry I have watched each day come and go waiting for some kind of reference to manufacturing industry to indicate that some concern was being felt by Opposition spokesmen about it. Fourteen occasions came and 14 occasions went and today, after a long delay, the Opposition suddenly has got around to it. It suddenly has discovered that there is a thing called manufacturing industry. 
As long ago as the last election campaign in April and May of this year, this Government was concerned about what was happening to certain aspects of manufacturing industry and in particular the textile industry. During the election campaign the Government sent a reference to the Textiles Authority on the subject. It was a 30-day reference which was acted upon promptly and which resulted in voluntary restraints being imposed on overseas exporters of certain types of textile articles to Australia, with considerable effect. That was in April of this year but, if one peruses the records of this House and the questions that have come forward from Opposition spokesmen who have now belatedly suddenly discovered a thing called manufacturing industry, one will find a benign indifference and a benign neglect of the importance of the subject. 
As the Opposition spokesmen try to single out areas and, without saying what should be done, say: 'Do something, do something, do something', directing remarks to this Government which has done more in its short term of office than any other previous government ever did in Australia, they bring disrepute upon themselves. I just remind some of the honourable members who sit opposite of their attitudes to some things. For example, one hears references to the 25 per cent reduction in tariffs that was made as long ago as July 1973- a fine decision made properly and not criticised at the time. I remind the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who sits opposite, that he was given the opportunity in July 1 973 in a radio broadcast to make a comment and he did not utter a single word of dissent from that proposal. Today it is fashionable and common and the in thing to say: 'Ah, you should not have done that'. When he had the opportunity to dissent, there was not a single word of dissent. The Opposition front bench spokesman on these matters, the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  accepted the across the board tariff reductions at that time as being a useful weapon against inflation. I can direct him to the passage in Hansard if he wishes me to do so. One can find such examples wherever one looks. 
I remind honourable members that as this Government took steps and action on economic matters during 1973 they were universally applauded. How often was it said: 'No one can fault the economics of the Whitlam Labor Government'? But now, because of world-wide trends which are affecting most of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries, and we are only one of twentythree - 
-Yes, including New Zealand. Honourable members opposite argue as though Australia is an island not related to the rest of the world and not sharing the international trading patterns which affect the rest of the world as well. May I put to honourable members some information coming from such an authoritative source as the Secretariat of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development of which Australia is part. It is estimated that there will be little, if any, economic growth- one of the symptoms that affects Australia at the moment- in any of the OECD countries during 1975. We are not Robinson Crusoe; we share this world with a lot of other countries and they all share these problems. According to the same source, consumer prices are rising rapidly in all the OECD countries. In Japan and the United Kingdom, for example, they are rising at the annual rate of 23 per cent and 16 per cent respectively. In those countries unemployment is very widespread. It stood at 6 per cent of the work force of the United States in September; in Canada it was 5 per cent; in West Germany it was more than 3 per cent; and in all 3 countries, as in the other OECD nations, it is expected to rise still further. 
I repeat that the situation that the world has now applies in Australia and it is not of any assistance to honourable members in this debate to forget what were the troubles last year. There was a world-wide commodity boom. We all know it. There was excess liquidity throughout the entire world. Money was coming out of the pores of the trading nations in excess quantities and the explanations for it can be put at various doors. Some people say that it was the result of the way in which the Vietnam war was financed. So be it if it was; it may have been caused by other matters. But the symptom was clear. As our Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  once put it, Australia was left completely defenceless by the previous Government against those developments which were taking place overseas. We had nothing like a variable deposit rule or a proper exchange rate for the Australian dollar, and the foreign money poured into Australia creating such an element of excess demand that inflation took off in the latter pan of 1972 helped- aided and abetted if you like - 
I shall come to that. It was aided and abetted by the Budget of the previous Government in 1972 which had a deficit of $660m, as the then Government tried to bribe itself through the 1972 election. This Government has tried successfully to put right the injustices of so many years of neglect in social services, health, hospital benefits, redress for the cities and so forth. The Government has not lost sight of the need to encourage industry. Indeed, one of our first measures, I remind honourable members, was the creation of the Industries Assistance Commission. There could be no finer charter of what this Government stands for than the language we wrote into the Act to establish the Commission, which had the full hearted support of the Liberal Party notwithstanding that the Australian Country Party saw in it the danger to certain interests of privilege that it sometimes in reality represents. But with the support of the Liberal Party this Government, in section 22 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act, said: 
The Commission shall have regard to the desire of the Australian Government, in pursuing the general objectives of national economic and social policy and urban and regional development, to improve and promote the well being of the people of Australia, with full employment, stability in the general level of prices, viability in external economic relations, conservation of the natural environment and rising and generally enjoyed standards of living . . . 
In that respect we have been largely successful, notwithstanding the obstructionism of the Senate. 
-Have I not? Just listen to me. We set up the Industries Assistance Commission and we recognised that the form, the structure, of industry in Australia was not at its optimum, as the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has been heard to say on other occasions in other places but rarely in this House. I have read some of the speeches he has made to bodies like the Manufacturing Industry Advisory Council. We began a program of structural change. The Leader of the Australian Country Party has talked about dole schemes. There is nothing to do with the dole in a scheme like the assistance scheme for country towns, which will assist- I emphasise the word 'assist'- firms in country towns, in which employment opportunities and investment opportunities are perhaps not as widespread as they might be, to move into more viable areas. There is nothing of a dole mentality about a structural adjustment board which will seek to improve - 
I thank the honourable member for the question, I certainly will cause inquiries of the kind he has in mind to be made of the Department and in the industry. I can say at this stage that it is known that Pilkington ACI has made significant imports of windscreens. I do not have the information before me at this stage as to whether they have come from a company in South Africa with which it has any financial understanding or relationship. However, I am informed that the importation of windscreens would not have had a significant effect on the retrenchments that are being made by the company at this time. 
As far as the latter part of the question is concerned, it is true that last year the Government did disallow a proposed takeover of the company Nielsen and Moller Pty Ltd, which was an Australian firm producing windscreens for automobiles, by PPG Industries, which is a major United States manufacturer of glass, chemicals, paint and fibreglass. The thinking, which will appeal to honourable members of this House, was that the takeover would have led in that set of circumstances to increased fragmentation in the industry. As to the other aspects of the honourable member's question, I will make inquiries and give him a detailed answer. 
One can be in complete agreement with the final proposition put by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  that it is indeed time that the community and this Parliament, containing as it does the various political parties, should turn its attention to the child. I am in complete agreement with much of what I have heard, or perhaps all of what I have heard, from the two previous speakers. Unfortunately, some animosity has crept into the debate, and that is a pity, because there is such agreement between the parties on this matter. In response to the suggestions that there is politics in this, I suppose one has to say that indeed there seems to be politics in this, and it is to be regretted. 
The facts are that on 1 August the Government, speaking in the Senate through the voice of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  declared its commitment to the removal of" the distinction between ex-nuptial children and other children. That fact would be well known to both honourable members who have spoken. On Tuesday last the Attorney-General brought into Cabinet a submission seeking to give effect to the very proposition that the 2 honourable gentlemen now espouse. 
-Of course, but one has to follow it a little further. 
I hear you. That decision of Cabinet on Tuesday to introduce legislation giving effect to this ideal was confirmed by the Parliamentary Labor Party Caucus yesterday and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr Cairns)  held his usual Press conference yesterday afternoon and announced it to the world. Then last night the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  gave notice of his intention to move this proposition here today. Those are the facts. I do not seek to make any political mileage or to take any kudos from them, but one wonders why the notice of motion appeared late last night in the name of the Leader of the Opposition following a Press statement by the Government a few hours earlier that it was going to do this very thing. Let us leave it on that basis. I move: 
Omit '(2) is of opinion that, as a matter of priority, legislation should be introduced', substitute '(2) supports the Australian Government's decision to legislate'. 
The amendment just regulates the matter and puts it in proper form. This Government is very proud of what it has managed to achieve in the short time that it has been in office in terms of doing away with discrimination- where it has had a measure of success- because discrimination exists in a whole range of areas, as the honourable member for Hotham pointed out when he directed his remarks to the ex-nuptial child. The question is of giving support to the disadvantaged. The increased expenditures by this Government on education give support to the disadvantaged. The increased expenditures on Aborigines in Australia give support to the disadvantaged. If one looks at the same subject of Aboriginal welfare and the determination of this Government to remove all forms of discrimination from its legislation, that also gives support to the disadvantaged. The same can be said of the Government's policies on pensions, welfare housing and social services generally. So this Government has made enormous progress in terms of allocating resources and giving support to the disadvantaged, and the announcement made yesterday is just a continuation of that general process. 
The Government has announced its intentions in regard to a human rights Bill. It has announced its intentions in regard to a general form of anti-discrimination legislation based upon the United Nations measures with which we are all familiar. It has done its best with the city of Newcastle to remove the discrimination which exists against Aborigines. It has done its best by the provision of enhanced legal aid schemes to take account of the fact that poor people in the community cannot afford the services of lawyers. So it all goes to a degree of consistency running through the Government's policy to create a more just, a more equitable, a less discriminatory society. 
When one directs one's attention to the exnuptial child one sees the same determination being extended there. As I have said, a very great deal of progress has been made. The most recent initiative- and it has not been resolved yet- is the introduction into the Senate of the Family Law Bill. As honourable members know, that is a Government measure, but only to the point of being introduced in the Senate and being brought to a vote. In other words, from the Government's point of view, and one hopes that it will be the same with the Opposition parties, there will be a free vote on the social issues which are being dealt with in that legislation. 
I take your point,  Mr Speaker,  but surely the emphasis has to be given because the Family Law Bill touches directly on the issue that was raised by the Leader of the Opposition and dealt with in a follow-up way by the honourable member for Hotham: It deals with children; it deals with custody; it deals with maintenance; it deals wirh access and other matters of that sort. So there is the introduction of reason and honesty into all these areas. 
-I am very pleased to hear that. I was not aware of that, but I am very pleased to hear you say it and confirm it. So the whole point is that when one comes to the question of the ex-nuptial child one is in complete agreement with everything that was said by both the previous speakers. But one could go further and say that it is not only a matter of sympathy, although sympathy certainly plays a part, but is also a matter of honesty. It is the absence of cant, the absence of hypocrisy, which is so terribly important. I think it was the honourable member for Hotham who said that there is a lot of hypocrisy, there is a lot of cant in the community on these social subjects. Sometimes people are very emotional about them. We are all familiar with the degree of heat and emotion that crept into the so-called anti-abortion legislation when it was introduced into this House by private members not so long ago. But if one takes account of the fact that our young people in the community today are growing up with a far greater degree of honesty than perhaps people of my generation and of older generations had, one sees the reason for the lack of understanding by them of why these forms of discrimination are allowed to persist. Parliament should not just drag behind emerging public opinion like that, it should try to keep abreast of it and, indeed, lead it if it can. 
The honourable member for Hotham mentioned the conservatism, if you like, of community attitudes, reflecting itself occasionally through politicians, on the contraceptive issue. This Government removed the sales tax on contraceptives, again recognising the importance of this subject. In case of the Australian Capital Territory, when I was Minister for the Capital Territory more than a year or so ago one of the first things that I managed to do was to remove the ban on the advertising of contraceptive services. The Government proudly took upon itself the right and the obligation, if necessary, to advertise the availability of contraceptive advice and contraceptive services in the Australian Capital Territory community. The Australian Capital Territory still leads Australia in that respect and we can all take some degree of pride in it. But the fact remains that one has to go much further. The difficulty is that although legislators like ourselves, can remove the form of the discrimination as it exists in the legislation and can even outlaw the discrimination in some cases or try to outlaw it, the community attitudes themselves are very difficult to erase. The role of the legislator in that case then becomes as much a role of educator as of legislator because, as long as he does not run away from the issues and as long as he does not bow down to the hysterical pressures that are sometimes mounted upon him, he can in fact lead public opinion and mould it, which could lead to the more just society we are all trying to achieve. 
I will not take very much more time, but I am reminded of some facts that the honourable member for Hotham mentioned when he talked about 40 per cent of the unmarried mothers of today not adopting out their children but seeking to keep them. That, too, is a sign of emancipating times. I am reminded of a figure- I cannot vouch for its accuracy, but it is in my mind from some past piece of reading somewhere- to the effect that something like 60 per cent of all first children are conceived out of wedlock. I think that the changing community attitudes, which are changing slowly, are an honest recognition of that fact. The shotgun marriage, as it was referred to, is to be deplored. The easier forms, the more honest forms of divorce, will help to overcome that as the whole debate moves to a new and better plane. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It will be appreciated that the term 'unused capacity' can have a varied meaning depending on the definition of 'capacity'. 
In peacetime, the Department of Manufacturing Industry defines 'capacity' in its factories as the level of operations required to utilise the available facilities economically on a single shift basis. On that basis, it is estimated that for 1973 the overall 'unused capacity' of the Government factories was in the range of 40% to 50%. 
Indonesian Fishermen in Australian Waters (Question No. 1664) 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The information sought by the right honourable member was provided by my colleague, the Prime Minister, on 3 October 1974 in his reply to Question No. 41 (Hansard, pages 2249-55). 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States  (Question No. 55) 
-My attention has been drawn to newspaper accounts of the position referred to by the honourable member. It is true that there are brickworks in the situation described by newspaper articles, and it is equally true that this problem is related to the current situation in the building industry. It is well known that the Government has taken a number of very active measures in recent times to release credit which should give substantial assistance to the building industry. There is always a time lag in these matters. As to the question of giving some guarantee in respect of interest rates, that clearly would involve major issues of policy. They will be given full consideration. 
Yes. In common with many honourable members, I read the article that announced the decision by General MotorsHolden 's Pty Ltd. I think we can all take some satisfaction from the fact that the corporation has declared its confidence in the future of the Australian automotive industry. As is well known, the Government recently announced certain measures dealing with the restructuring of the industry and to give it protection from excessive import competition. The essential features of that scheme are that while the imports remain above 20 per cent, the tariffs on CBUs and CKDs go up by about 10 per cent. Should the percentage fall to 20 per cent, those tariffs revert by 10 per cent. In the meantime, of course, it is hoped to encourage some Japanese manufacturers to explore the possibilities of perhaps a joint venture with the existing facilities in South Australia, which are extremely important. At the same time, the Government is determined to encourage the industry to increase its efficiency and its competitiveness with overseas manufacturers by moving the 95 per cent content plan progressively over a period of 4 years down to 85 per cent. That action will result, we believe, in the components side of the industry being able to make itself more efficient, more competitive, and more export oriented. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks Parliament's approval for the first legislative expression of the Government's intention, announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 23 April this year, to provide structural adjustment assistance to assist changes in Australian industry. Virtually all features of the Government's program for structural adjustment assistance are already in operation, including the recently announced measures in relation to non-metropolitan areas which have particular difficulties in adjusting to structural change. There is a need to give the whole program a more defined and permanent form through legislation to establish the Structural Adjustment Board. This will take same time to prepare, but there is, in the meantime, a particular requirement for legislative authority within which loan guarantees may be provided as part of the program. It is for that reason that this Bill is being introduced. 
To help progress towards the community's social and economic goals, the Government sees it as desirable in appropriate cases to promote and make easier the process of structural change in industry. There can be particular times when growth, and even strong growth, of the more viable sectors of industry may not be enough to offset weaknesses that develop in other sectors. . There are undoubtedly rigidities in the structure of industry which it takes time to overcome. The change from existing investments and existing employment patterns to others which would be more productive must be a gradual process. At the same time, there are very great gains to be made from shifting industrial activity at a manageable pace from areas and forms which involve high costs to the community to others where industry needs less support or can stand on its own feet. Greater net value accrues to the community in this way. 
The costs of inadequate ability to make these changes can be very high. Estimates have been made- and I stress that the precise figures are very much a matter of debate- which suggest that the total cost of support of Australian industry in its present form may run into hundreds of millions of dollars each year. The encouragement of structural adjustments which will reduce this cost has been one of the central aims of this Government. Over a period, if movement into more viable industries and particular sectors of industries can be encouraged, or indeed even if their growth can be fostered while investment in other less attractive sectors is not encouraged, steady and worthwhile progress can be made towards a more soundly based industrial structure. 
It must be remembered that we are not talking about wholesale or overnight changes to industry structure. The larger part of the assistance I have mentioned goes to relatively few industry sectors, and within those areas there is a wide variation in the degree of dependence on that support by particular activities and particular firms. Indeed, in most cases, structural adjustment can be left to occur naturally as a continuing process of adaptation by individual firms. 
However, where the Government judges it necessary to facilitate a structural change arising from a decision in the broad national interest, but beyond the normal adaptive capacity of the economy, there is another reason for providing assistance to changes of this sort, and one that is particularly important to this Government. Such a structural change is clearly likely to involve some degree of upset to the lives of particular people and the business operations of particular companies. The industrial structure that we have is partly a product of past policies- perhaps not always policies that have been in the best interests of the community, but nevertheless policies to which business and in turn employment have simply responded as being the policies of the government of the day. In the circumstances I have described the Government recognises that it is for the community generally, through the Australian Government, to bear the burden that these changes involve, and not for those particular businesses and employees which may be more seriously affected. 
I have given this background to the Bill to show the general basis for the Government's structural adjustment programs. Those programs provide for assistance in a number of ways. The Government has made generous arrangements to assist individual employees who may suffer as a result of these changes. It has also provided for assistance in a number of ways to businesses which are affected; through arrangements which the Department of Manufacturing Industry is already operating pending the establishment of the Structural Adjustment Board. Firms which have to cease operation or close a substantial part of their operations, in circumstances where the Government has decided the structural change involved should be assisted, can receive substantial compensation for the loss on realisation of their assets. This compensation can assist the firm, if it chooses, to start a new business with better long-term prospects. Firms can also obtain grants for consultancy studies to provide them with advice on restructuring of their activities. 
There is, however, an understandable reluctance on the part of many firms- and also of employees- to leave areas of activity with which they are familiar, even if those activities may be costly to the community or may not be contributing fully to national welfare. Encouragement may be needed to induce these firms to reorient their activities in more productive directions. If their choice of a new activity is wisely made, there is no reason why, in a country with Australia's undoubted potential for growth, they should not enjoy a prosperous future. If this can be done the community generally will benefit. Loan guarantees can be particularly effective in encouraging firms to adopt such a course, since they assist firms to finance the initial cost of a significant transformation of their activities. 
Both the firm and the lender will have, of course, a strong interest in ensuring that the restructured operation will in fact be sufficiently productive to meet the costs of its establishment and to show adequate profits. The loan guarantee essentially primes the pump- to start the process of restructuring which, once it is established, can be self-sustaining. The objective of the legislation providing for loan guarantee for structural adjustment proposals is set out in clause 4 of the Bill, and is consistent with the objective of the structural adjustment program generally. 
Since decisions on the provision of structural adjustment assistance will need to take account of the circumstances of particular cases, the Bill provides in clause 5 for the prescription of particular adjustment situations by regulation under the Bill. There is also provision in clauses 5 and 14 for details concerning particular decisions, including the class of firms to receive assistance and the period for which assistance will be available, to be determined by regulation. 
Clause 6 authorises the provision of loan guarantees, and is subject to clause 7 which sets out the broad criteria under which a firm may receive a loan guarantee. These criteria are broadly as follows: That the firm has been or is being adversely affected by a prescribed adjustment situation to such an extent as to render a significant and distinct part of its assets incapable of economic use; that the firm itself has taken all reasonable steps to adjust to the situation; and that the loan monies are to be used in a way consistent with the intention of the Government in taking the decision which gave rise to the need for the particular structural change. Clause 7 also provides, in effect, that a firm may not receive both a loan guarantee and closure compensation. 
Cases might arise where the Government's intention is to encourage a particular structural change which would not, without assistance, be likely to occur at a reasonable speed and at a reasonable economic cost to the community.. In these cases the Government may wish to assist and not have the test of adverse effects on the firm applied. It would normally be the case that only one guarantee would be provided to any firm or group of associated firms, however, there is provision for this requirement to be waived where it would have unreasonable effects. This might be the case, for example, if 2 members of a diversified group of firms were affected by reason of adjustment situations affecting entirely different areas of industry. 
A further provision is that guarantees may apply to as much as 90 per cent of the loan guarantee, but not more. This provision is intended to ensure that the lender exercises his own responsibility for assessing the viability of the proposal. (Quorum formed). Further clauses of the Bill provide for the application of conditions to guarantees, both to meet normal financial and administrative requirements in relation to the provision of loan guarantees and to ensure that the conditions under which the assistance is provided are complied with. 
Other clauses of the Bill provide that payments under guarantees are to be met out of monies appropriated by the Parliament and available for the purpose, and to provide for machinery matters in relation to the operation of the Bill. Penalties are provided for misrepresentation in relation to matters concerning the provision of guarantees, and for breach of the secrecy provisions of the legislation. 
The introduction of the legislation provides clear evidence that the Government intends that desirable structural changes in Australian industry should not be impeded by lack of adequate measures. In the past structural change in industry has been largely a matter of chance. This has not been good enough. Structural change effects us all for good and bad and there should be the opportunity for Government to influence change for the good and not the bad. This Bill will assist in that regard. It will enable steady progress to be made towards achieving an industrial structure more attuned to the Australian environment and contributing more fully to the effective use of our human and physical resources. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2)1 expect that a Bill dealing with a wide range of companies matters will be introduced in this session of Parliament. The Bill will be primarily concerned with matters of concern to the investing public and will take into account, amongst other things, the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. A further Bill will follow and deal with matters concerning the structures of companies such as their incorporation, voting rights and winding up. 
I would expect that the safeguards the honourable member has in mind would be fully and speedily enforceable through the Commercial Division of the proposed Superior Court, and that the Court would have adequate powers and Judges skilled in this part of the law to enable this to be achieved. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) The Department of Manufacturing Industry attaches considerable importance to civil defence preparedness, which is closely linked with the safety programmes and procedures of the Government factories operated by the Department Each establishment has developed plans to be put into effect in emergency situations. Staff are trained to man the plans, including in such aspects as fire prevention, fire fighting, equipment maintenance, first aid and demolition and rescue operations. Departmental fire crews co-operate with and back up local authorities. Selected staff attend the civil defence training centre at Mt Macedon. Exercises, which vary from the occasional evacuation of buildings to frequent drilling in particular activities, are carried out as considered necessary by each establishment. As examples, the Explosives Factories conduct exercises at least quartlerly in relation to the particular nature of their operations and the fire teams at Aircraft Factories carry out exercises at least monthly. It is not practicable to separate civil defence from general safety exercises in the establishments. As a rough estimate, the number of specific exercises carried out by the Department as a whole over the past 18 months would exceed 100, including 3 major evacuation of buildings. 
Yes. 
The honourable member's question raises many diverse matters. I begin answering the question by saying that the Government's program of tariff reform and of structural adjustment in industry is ultimately designed to have very beneficial effects on the Australian community. The beneficial effects will work in 2 ways. First, if one studies the facts and figures one sees that they will produce better paid jobs for Australians generally, and secondly cheaper goods for Australians generally. I will refer briefly to the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission. It divided manufacturing industries into 4 groups and pointed out that wages paid by the group receiving the least form of assistance were, on an average, 12 per cent higher than in the group receiving the most assistance. This comment is relative to the textile industry in particular. The LAC report- it has never been challenged in this regard- pointed out that the least protected industries in Australia, the industries which make the more efficient use of Australia's people and Australia's natural resources, can afford to pay the higher wages. Our reforms and our efforts to assist structural change is designed to facilitate the movement of resources into those less protected and better paid areas. 
As far as cheaper goods are concerned, the whole point is that tariff protection amounts to a very high cost to Australian consumers generally. I have some figures which may be of interest to the honourable member. The estimate of cost to the Australian consumer generally in prices- the cost buried as part of the price structure in certain industries- can be listed: Fabricated metal products, about $300m a year; motor vehicles, about $133m a year; refrigerators and household appliances, $61m a year; and television, radios and electronic equipment, $48m a year. There are similar figures for textiles, although I do not have them with me. The honourable member draws attention to the Government's policy and our scheme of providing a selective form of subsidy that does not impose the same degree of cost on the community as a whole. It is a form of subsidy which would still cost money but which would go to identifiable industries to assist them to maintain their viability. More importantly, perhaps, it would assist them to move the resources into those areas that have a good future and perhaps out of areas of activity that have not quite such a bright future. 
This subsidy scheme that the honourable member mentioned and which the Prime Minister announced some time ago is already in operation; it is not merely being talked about. I think it was last Wednesday that a committee of Ministers, which I chaired, met and approved of 6 payments to firms in selective areas in the textile industry. Those firms are Bruck (Australia) Ltd at Wangaratta in Victoria, $400,000; Wangaratta Woollen Mills, Wangaratta, $150,000; Kelsall and Kemp, Launceston, $100,000; Ballarat Woollen and Worsted Company Ltd, Ballarat, Victoria, $150,000; Courtaulds Australia at Tomago, $200,000; and Prestige Ltd at Ararat in Victoria, $150,000. So the honourable member will appreciate that the scheme is not being just talked about, but is actually in operation. I can also assist the honourable member by telling him that a number of other applications are in the course of being considered. The same group of Ministers will meet on this Wednesday to consider further applications, and if the honourable member cares to ask me for particulars after decisions have been taken on the applications I will be happy to give them to him. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable Australia to accede to the United Nations Convention known as the 1958 Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards. The Convention facilitates the settling of differences by arbitration. To this end States that accede to the Convention are obliged to recognize and enforce foreign arbitration agreements and foreign arbitral awards. An arbitration agreement for this purpose is one by which the parties undertake in writing to submit their differences to arbitration. Usually such differences will relate to contracts, especially contracts of a commercial character, but it is sufficient under the Convention that a difference is in respect of a denned legal relationship. Arbitration is a relatively inexpensive, speedy and final method of settling differences m business dealings. It is often more adaptable to the complexities of international trade than ordinary court proceedings are. The parties to an arbitration can choose arbitrators with relevant technical knowledge. They can select a place for the arbitration proceedings which will minimise their costs and they can avoid the uncertainty associated with proceedings before foreign courts. The effectiveness of international arbitration depends, however, on arrangements in the countries concerned for the legal recognition and enforcement of arbitration agreements and awards. Recognising this, the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations convened a Conference, in June 1958, to work out a Convention. Forty-five States, including Australia, attended the Conference. A Convention was concluded and came into force on 7 June 1959. To date, 4 1 States have ratified or acceded to it. They include such major trading partners of Australia as Japan, the United States of America, France, the Netherlands and the Federal Republic of Germany. Last December the General Assembly of the United Nations resolved to invite States which had not ratified or acceded to the Convention to consider doing so. This was done on the recommendation of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL), the members of which were of the unanimous opinion that the Convention is of substantial benefit to international trade. 
The present Bill deals with the matter on a national basis. This is desirable because the implementation of an international Convention is involved and because that Convention concerns trade and commerce with other countries. The Australian Parliament has the necessary power to proceed in this way and should exercise that power. The former Government had proposed that the matter be dealt with by State and Territory legislation, but that would have been unsatisfactory. The resulting multiplicity of legislative provisions would have been confusing, particularly to parties in other countries. Apart from that confusion there would have been uncertainty as to when the necessary legislation in the eight different jurisdictions would have been passed. 
The present position in Australia is that foreign awards such as those covered by this Bill are recognised and may be enforced in accordance with the State and Territory law that governs domestic awards. However, a party seeking to enforce a foreign award under that law has to adduce evidence to prove that the parties had duly submitted the matter to arbitration; that the arbitration was conducted in accordance with the submission; and that the arbitration was valid according to the law that was applicable to it. To prove those matters, it will often be necessary to arrange for the attendance at the Australian court of witnesses from other countries. Enforcement is therefore likely to be a difficult and expensive task. 
A better procedure for enforcement of certain kinds of awards is available under the State and Territory legislation that provides for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However that legislation is applicable only if the award in question was made in a country with reciprocal legislation and is enforceable in that country as a judgment of a specified court. The Bill I now present expressly preserves the existing procedures I have mentioned for the enforcement of awards. But it provides for an additional procedure that will be simpler, less expensive and generally more satisfactory. Under the Bill a party seeking to enforce a foreign award will need only to produce to the Australian court the duly authenticated original award or a certified copy of it plus the original or a certified copy of the arbitration agreement under which the award purports to have been made. If any of these documents are in a language other than English a certified translation will also be required. The onus will then be on the other party to establish any reason that may exist why the court should not enforce the award. 
The Bill provides that a court will be able to refuse to enforce an award for any of the following reasons: Incapacity of the party against whom enforcement is sought; invalidity of the arbitration agreement under the relevant law; absence of proper notice of appointment of arbitrator or of arbitration proceedings or inability for some other reason of a party to present his case; scope of award outside the submission to arbitration; composition of arbitral authority or arbitral procedure not as required; award not yet binding or already set aside; subject matter not capable of settlement by arbitration under relevant Australian laws; and to give effect to the award would be contrary to public policy. 
As well as providing for the enforcement of foreign awards, the Bill provides for the recognition of agreements to submit differences to arbitration. This recognition is in the form of a right given to a party to such an agreement to obtain a stay of any court proceedings that may have been instituted to determine a matter that had been agreed to be submitted to arbitration. On granting such a stay of proceedings the court is to refer the parties to arbitration. In this respect, the Bill will go somewhat further than the existing State and Territory legislation under which the question whether a stay of proceedings should be granted is left to the court 's discretion. 
Arbitration agreements will be recognised by the provision I just mentioned if the procedure is governed by the law of another Convention country; if there are Australian parties to the agreement, even though it is governed by the law of a non-Convention country; or if parties to the agreement are from a Convention country. The recognition and enforcement provisions in the Bill will be applicable in any State or Territory court and also in the Superior Court of Australia when that court has been established. 
The Bill provides for Australia to accede to the Convention with a declaration that it is to extend to all our external territories except Papua New Guinea. Two other declarations are permitted by the Convention but are not provided for in the Bill. One possible declaration would be that the Convention shall only apply to awards made in the Territory of another contracting state; the other would be that 'he Convention shall only apply to differences considered to be 'commercial'. Neither of these 2 declarations would serve any useful purpose for Australia and in fact would detract from the usefulness of the Convention. 

 Mr Speaker, the advantages of Australian accession are clear. As far back as 1959 all the Australian States had indicated their view that the Convention should be adopted. Regrettably it has taken until now for the necessary legislation to be introduced. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I thank the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-The act of malicious damage to property just performed by the honourable member might well provoke action by the police in another place at a different time. The Government is aware, of course, and has been aware for some little time, of great amounts of imports of footwear to Australia. I have had discussions with representatives of the Myer organisation, which is an importer about certain aspects of this. Honourable members will be aware that the Government recently took action in respect of those very high levels of imports. It caused a reference to be sent to the Temporary Assistance Authority, which operates within the context of the Industries Assistance Commission, and the Temporary Assistance Authority conducted an open public inquiry into the nature of the problem. It made a recommendation which was adopted by the Government within a matter of a day or two and action was taken to impose restrictions on imports of the kind referred to by the honourable member. I think I quote the figures correctly when I say that it was set at about 1 20 per cent of the figures for 1972-73. So it can be seen that it is a very substantial roll-back. The Department of Manufacturing Industry has been engaged since that time in allocating quotas to importers. There is a particular problem involved in this regard because some importers are caught with their pants down, so to speak, because they have out irrevocable letters of credit. Firm and positive action has been taken to protect the local manufacturing industry. 
However, one should not lose sight of the fact that Australians as consumers are entitled to have access to shoes- footwear. In this regard I will tell the honourable member a short story. There is a principal Australian manufacturer who makes a good quality woman's fashion shoe which retails for $21.50 a pair. He complained that he could not compete with an identical pair of shoes that were being imported into this country. He showed them to me perhaps a month ago. These shoes were retailing for $6.50 and were absolutely identical with the locally manufactured article.  His  complaint, and understandably so, was how could he compete with this identical pair of shoes which were selling for $6.50 but which he could not make and put on the market for less than $2 1.50. We took action in respect of that matter to grant protection and to achieve the correct balance between protecting Australian industry and Australian jobs and giving the consumerthe customer, the woman who wears shoes of that sort- access to shoes of that kind because she is entitled occasionally, when she wants to do so, to buy the imported goods. 
It should also be made known that that imported shoe which was selling for $6.50 should have been selling in fact for about $4.50 because the price at which it was being imported would have enabled a reasonable mark-up to be placed upon it even at the lower price. The Government has taken firm and decisive action. 
Overall, it has been applauded by the Australian footwear manufacturing industry. 
-The right honourable gentleman 's question was more in the nature of a speech. Until he had proceeded half way through his political talk about the political affiliations of members of the staff of the Myer Emporium in Melbourne I wondered what his question could possibly have to do with the Department of Manufacturing Industry. I said yesterday in answer to a question that the industries in Australia- and they include the manufacturing industries- which are able to operate on the lower levels of protection are those that are able to pay the highest wages to Australian employees. In fact the percentage difference in terms of wages is something in the nature of 12 per cent, a figure produced by research in the Industries Assistance Commission. 
This Government was the first government to recognise the importance of manufacturing industry to the extent that it set up a special body, the Industries Assistance Commission. I would appreciate that the recommendations- and that is all they are- of that body have at times been controversial. But the overall thrust of it is to facilitate the movement of resources in Australia into the more productive areas. The right honourable gentleman is quite correct in saying that manufacturing industry contributes enormously to the benefit of Australia. It contributes approximately in round figures 30 per cent of gross domestic product and a similar percentage of the work force. The industries that the right honourable member obviously has in mind have suffered from some import competition. That is always going on. I also said a little while agothe right honourable member may recall thisthat the present unemployment figures are higher than they should be and with this Government is doing everything that can be done at this time to reduce them, the approximate percentage of unemployment attributable to tariff changes is less than 10 per cent of the whole. 
The right honourable member mentions demand policies and credit management, and quite rightly so, because it was his Government that let the supply of credit in Australia get completely out of control in 1971, 1972 and 1973. The figures are well known. The supply of money in this country was just allowed to run wild, to run rampant at the time when the Whitlam Labor Government first began to take over in December 1972, because of the failure of the Government of which the right honourable member was a Treasurer to revalue the Australian dollar and to place any restrictions at that time on overseas borrowing, on the flood of foreign money which was pouring into this country and which triggered off the inflationary boom. The demand management policies that this Whitlam Government implemented to dry up that flood, to soak it up and bring about a better balance between supply and demand, is what is now beginning to produce desirable results. But the disaster of that time bomb that the previous Government left for us to pick up - 
Opposition members- Oh ! 
Well, read the economic writers when one is looking for scapegoats. I said in Brisbane, and I repeat here, that when the history books are written listing the achievements of this Whitlam Labor Government, they will list the achievements relating to social services, pensions and education, but its contributions to the growth of a prosperous manufacturing industry will rank very high. 
JOHN McEWEN HOUSE APPEAL 
Pursuant to section 33(3) of the Criminology Research Act 1971 I present the second annual report of the operations of the Australian institute of Criminology together with financial statements for the period ended 30 June 1974. 
-(Canberra-Minister for Manufacturing Industry)- Pursuant to section 43(5) of the aforementioned Act I present he second annual report of the Criminology Research Council for the period ended 30 June 1974 
It is true that the Government recently announced the setting up of a National Small Business Bureau which is designed specifically to be of aid to small businesses. In doing this the Government recognised that small businesses account for a very significant number of the overall businesses in Australia and that they face problems that are not faced by large businesses. In particular, they face problems with regard to finance, accessibility to expertise, market information and matters of that sort. It was for these reasons that the National Small Business Bureau was brought into being. It is at an early stage as yet, but it is hoped that ultimately there will be offices of the Bureau in each of the capital cities and regional centres of Australia. Recently it was announced that a counselling service would be set up on a pilot basis in Sydney and Perth as from 1 January and it is hoped that as from early in 1975 a series of management aid booklets will begin to appear and be made available to small businessmen. 
Implicit in the honourable member's question is the notion of the vulnerability of small businesses in their relationships with big business. In this regard, of course, the Government has moved very strongly with its anti-restrictive trade practices legislation. This is because business that is in a monopolistic situation can often work against the interests of small businesses. The trade practices legislation gives a great amount of protection to small businesses. I should also say that the recently announced special assistance scheme to non-metropolitan areas also is a means of channelling funds to businesses in non-metropolitan areas. For instance, it would help firms affected by certain categories of entitlement in regard to their liquidity problems. The recent devaluation of the Australian currency is another example which could work to the advantage of small business. 
I should also say that I am advised that the Reserve Bank of Australia has indicated to the trading banks that enterprises, big and small. which are soundly managed and financially viable should not be prevented from carrying on merely because of a temporary lack of funds. In that context, I understand that the trading banks have increased substantially their lending over the last four or five weeks. So the Government has been very active in this regard because it has recognised the enormously important role played by small business in Australia. 
I do recall the question the honourable gentleman asked a week or so ago, and in fact much of what I said in response to the last question that was put to me is applicable to this question as well. It does sometimes strike one as odd that sums of money which match their earnings for the previous 6 months can be paid under the income maintenance scheme to employees who have been retrenched for a particular reason, when they are not engaged in any productive form of activity. It is partly in response to that that the special assistance scheme for non-metropolitan areas was introduced. As honourable members know, 1 announced here the other day that substantial sums of money have been approved to be paid to a number of firms in non-metropolitan areas, most of them, I recall, being in the textile industry. I think I am correct in saying that the total figure to date is about $1.5m In large measure those sums of money do what the honourable member suggests. In very round terms, they equate with the cost of the labour component in the cost structure of those firms. That means, of course, that the firms are able to continue, and continue in production particularly. It is sometimes said that at this time, because of other problems in the economy, there is difficulty in disposing of the goods being produced, but surely that should not continue because, as the market stabilises, the goods should be disposed of. I will take the matter further, as the honourable member suggests. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interdepartmental committee report entitled 'Proposed Freedom of Information Legislation'. 
in reply- I will speak briefly because events are taking place in the Senate which I am told involve this House. I understand that this House will have to consider later certain matters that are being dealt with in the other place. May I single out for attention the remarks of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who is a Liberal member of this House. 
A good member. I dismiss the remarks that were made by all other members of the Liberal and Country Party side of the House because they did not make any sense. All those members tried to do was to make some base political capital out of the situation. Apart from the honourable member for Wakefield there was not one member on the other side of the House who even understood what this legislation was about. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment. In fact the Government rejects it more or less out of hand. 
No. As I indicated in my second reading speech, the Government sees this measure as being incorporated into a wider system of structural change. But no government could accept the attitude expressed in the Opposition's amendment which seeks automatically to take control of this measure out of the hands of government. The Opposition claimed to support the measure- mouthed its support for it- but it adopts the attitude that the legislation should automatically come to an end without any intervention of this Government at a certain time in the future, namely, 30 June 1975- a date chosen by the Opposition. 
If the honourable member wants to talk nonsense, let him go ahead. This measure, by all accounts, is a great advance in economic management in Australia. For 23 years the Government could have done with it. For 23 years the Government was denied it. This Government has introduced it and the Opposition grudgingly admits its merit. Then, seizing upon passages which I put in my second reading speech, it says: 'Look, why do you not bring the legislation to an automatic end in 6 months time because you are going to marry it to a wider system of structural change anyway?' I say: Of course I am. That is right. But being in government, the problem has to be solved by government. The Opposition looks at it from the point of view of trying to score rather nasty cheap little political points. The merit of the measure is not disputed. The Government cannot accept the Opposition's amendment. It disputes the Opposition's motives. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) ( a ) Six Mirage fighter trainer aircraft 
Nil 
At the Government Aircraft Factories, Fishermen's Bend and Avalon, and at Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd and other sub-contractor premises. The fighter trainers supplemented the main Mirage program completed in 1968. 
No fighter aircraft were built. The six fighter trainers were commissioned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Forty-one, comprising 22 Airtruks, 1 Nomad and 18 Bell 206B-1 light observation helicopters. (b) Fifty-two, comprising 2 Airtruks and SO Nomads. 
The Airtruk is built by the Transavia Company at Seven Hills, Sydney, Airtruk is designed for agricultural use, such as crop dusting and aerial spreading of fertilizers. It is presently operating in Australia, New Zealand, Denmark and Thailand. 
The Nomad is manufactured by the Government Aircraft Factories at Fishermen's Bend, Melbourne. Nomad is designed for commercial and military markets. The one aircraft that has been built is the first production aircraft; it is due to commence operations early in 1975 as a marketing demonstrator for Government Aircraft Factories. 
The Bell 206B- 1 light observation helicopter is built by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd at Fishermen's Bend under contract to Bell Helicopter Australia Pty Ltd. Fifteen of the helicopters are being operated by the Australian Army and Navy in Australia and Papua New Guinea, for observation, reconnaissance, training and limited freight and passenger transport; the other three are currently held by Bell. 
They are continuing batches of the aircraft already built: the Airtruks are being built for potential future sales; the Nomads are for commercial and military sales. 
Ten light aircraft were built (8 Airtruks and 2 Nomad prototypes), and 211 were commissioned (20 Nomads and 191 Bell 206B-1 helicopters). The number of helicopters has since been reduced to 56. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Constant reviews are made and, because of recent increases in Melbourne bookings, action is being taken to recruit an additional booking clerk. 
The requirement for cars at weekends is usually notified in advance and most allocations are made during weekdays. Therefore, only one man is normally employed in each capital city to take car bookings during weekends. 
Separate records are not maintained of bookings actually received during weekends. To provide this information would involve the examination of approximately 350.000 separate transport booking forms. However, it is known that very few bookings are received during weekends. 
This only occurs during the silent hours of weekdays ( 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. ) and during weekends. 
Committee of Inquiry into Workloads in Government Factories  (Question No. 1748) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
24 July 1 974, 27 September 1 974, 2 1 October 1 974. 
24 July 1974: 

 Mr D. J. O'Connor (Chairman)  Department of Manufacturing Industry 
MrH.J.Souter-ACTU 
MrR.Gradwell-CCPSO 
MrG. Butcher-ACSPA 

 Mr B. Ross NKS ( Holdings) Ltd 

 Mr J. Hannes; Hanimex Corporation Limited 
MrG. A. Low- Treasury 

 Mr D. D. Wood; Department of Defence 

 Mr J. Sparkes; Department of Housing and Construction 

 Mr R. Molineux ;Department of Transport 

 Mr A. D. Fogarty; Department of Labor and Immigration 

 Mr J. H. Dolphin; Department of Manufacturing Industry 

 Mr A. Godfrey; Department of Manufacturing Industry 

 Mr G. Ramsden Department of Manufacturing Industry 
-The honourable member directs his question to the all-important and con.tinuingly important subject of the police in Australia. The subject was of great interest to my predecessor. There has been I fear, some misunderstanding by some of the people concerned with the problem. As all honourable members are aware there is the Commonwealth Police Force and there is the Australian Capital Territory Police Force. It has to be remembered that there are enormous advantages in avoiding fragmentation of the police forces and duplication of resources. There are other law enforcement agencies in Australia such as that located in the Department of Customs and Excise which deals with the question of narcotics. The role of taxation officers as well has to be considered. There are, as I said, enormous advantages in integrating them. It gives a better and more attractive career system for police officers. 
On the other hand one has to concede that the police forces and the people who comprise them have a strong sense of personal identity with their own police force in the community they serve. This goes to the level of esprit de corps that makes a police force work so well and behind that there is the relationship between the police and the public. I think that what lies behind the honourable member's question is the fact that there have been some expressions of concern about a loss of identity that might take place if the Australian Capital Territory Police Force were integrated into a wider body, but one has to say that the 2 things are not incompatible. One has to bear in mind, of course, the need to maintain the identity within an overall framework and surely that is not an impossible task. In Canada it has been done and done extremely successfully. These are early days yet for me in this portfolio of Attorney-General but I point out that some three or four months ago I spoke to the Comptroller-General of the Department of Customs and Excise,  Mr Carmody,  who had made a study of the situation as it exists in Canada. He at that time was extremely confident that benefits could come if the 2 systems could be successfully married together. 
I have also had discussions with representatives of the Commonwealth Police Force and I have had discussion in the past with representatives of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force in my role as a local member here in Canberra and I certainly intend to do so again in the very near future. Indeed I am having discussions on the subject with  Mr Carmody  at lunch time today. The role of the Legislative Assembly, which was referred to in the honourable member's question, is a matter for my colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory but it is a matter about which I will have discussions with him. 
-Obviously the honourable member's question is motivated by newspaper reports of the decision of the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Lewis,  about the filling of the casual vacancy caused by the resignation of  Mr Murphy  from the Senate. Section 15 of the Constitution contains the relevant provision and it is probably well known to honourable members. But beyond that other factors are involved about which we should constantly remind ourselves. One is the role played in the Australian Constitution by conventions. All honourable members who have done any reading on the subject would know that the role of conventions in the British tradition of constitutional law is very great indeed. It is true that in the Australian Constitution which is in a written form, unlike the British Constitution which is in an unwritten form, the role of the conventions is not as great as it is in Britain. But there can be little doubt- our High Court has said so- that the whole basis of responsible government rests on conventions. It is the existence of conventions that gives certainty and assurance to the conduct of government. Without the rule of law reflected in conventions, as well as in the written form, we would have chaos and anarchy. There can be little doubt that this convention is in existence. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ; 
1 ) The initial establishment levels approved by the Public Service Board for the Bureau are 20 officers. , . ... 
The Bureau comprises three sections - Policy and Research  - Program Development - Program Operations. 
The function of the Policy and Research Section is to develop and implement a comprehensive research program into the characteristics, problems and needs of Australia's small business sector and formulate policy proposals for the efficient development of the sector. 
The function of the Program Development Section is to develop programs and measures to assist the efficient development of Australia's small business sector. The function of the Program Operations section is to implement programs and measures developed by the Bureau to assist the development of Australia 's small business sector. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Small Business Bureau was established earlier in 1974 to progressively develop a comprehensive and co-ordinated national program of assistance to small business in the manufacturing and tertiary sectors of the economy. 
The initial task of the Bureau has been to evaluate and assess the particular needs of the small business sector, including a detailed evaluation of the adequacy and suitability of existing services provided in both the public and private sector. As gaps and deficiencies are identified detailed elements of the national program will be developed. 
One such gap has been identified viz the provision of management counselling services to small businesses at moderate cost. A Small Enterprise Counselling Assistance Program has been developed to meet this need which will be introduced on a pilot basis in Sydney and Perth at the beginning of 1975. 
The counselling service will be largely staffed by retired or semi-retired business executives with experience in industry and commerce. If the trial project is successful it is envisaged that similar services will be opened in other centres where there is a need. 
Apart from these trial projects in Sydney and Perth there has been no decision made yet to set up offices of the National Small Business Bureau in the other capital cities or other centres. However the Small Business Bureau is part of the Department of Manufacturing Industry which has offices in each of the capital cities. The facilities of these regional offices are available for any small businessman to utilize. 
See 1 above. 
See 1 above. 
Petro-chemical Plants: Safety Regulations (Question No. 785) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the reply given by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation to Question No. 1 129on 12 November 1 974, Hansard, Page 3388. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) Requests for financial assistance for the establishment of a permanent secretariat have been received from: 
The Australian Federation of Consumer Organizations. 
The Australian Crime Prevention Council. 
In each case, approval has been given for the provision of financial assistance to the organisation for the purpose of establishing and maintaining a permanent secretariat. The annual grant to the Australian Crime Prevention Council has been increased from $2,500 to $28,000, subject to review at three-yearly intervals. In the case of the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations, an initial grant of $10,000 has been approved for the establishment of a secretariat and the provision of further assistance is still under consideration. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to question No. 1581 (House of Representatives Hansard 4 December 1974 page 4590). 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) Copies of Ministerial press releases are circulated by hand to the Press Gallery, by distribution from the Ministerial Document Reproduction Unit, by publication in the Australian Government Digest and by mail from the Information and Public Relations Branch of the Department to those persons and organisations on the mailing list. 
There is a mailing list of people and organisations who regularly receive copies of Ministerial press releases, but this list is constantly changed. However press releases are issued to all Members and Senators, Media Organisations, Government Departments, Political Parties, the Legal Profession, Libraries and interested organisations and persons who have requested the service. 
The number of copies circulated depends to a certain extent on the subject matter of the particular releases. However, there are about 1600 persons and organisations. who regularly receive the material. 
Pan of the cost of producing and distributing Ministerial press releases is included in costs relating to salary and administration of the Attorney-General's Depanment. Other costs are borne by the Ministerial Document Reproduction Unit, which is pan of the Depanment of the Media. The costs attributable to Ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this pan of the right honourable member's question. 
One officer in the Information and Public Relations Branch of the Depanment has as one of his duties the distribution of Press Releases. Other officers assist from time to time as the occasion warrants. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: (l)and(2) 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question 
and (2) No. Whilst it is true that most copies of the Trade Practices Act were naturally sold by the Australian Government Printing Service through its own outlets in the State and Territory capitals, the Acts were available for sale to book retailers and some at least of the University bookshops purchased bulk supplies for resale. In the Northern Territory arrangements were made for the distribution of the Act by the Law Society of the Northern Territory as well as through the Government outlet. 
Copies of the Act were marked 'Recommended retail price: 65c' and this was the price charged by the Government outlets; the price at which copies were sold by the University bookshops is not known. 
There has been no contravention of the several provisions of the Act referred to by the honourable member. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have now conveyed my views on the matter to the Minister for the Capital Territory. 
I thank the honourable member for the question because it does draw attention to the very important work that is being done in the field of anti-restrictive trade practices now that Australia has for the first time an effective piece of legislation in that regard. I have already had discussions on the subject with the appropriate officers and dealt with more general matters than the particular ones raised by the honourable member. I will certainly be continuing those discussions. If the honourable member cares to discuss the matters with me at some later stage I shall do so. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make racial discrimination unlawful in Australia and to provide an effective means of combating racial prejudice in our country. My predecessor,  Senator Murphy  as he then was, introduced a Racial Discrimination Bill into the Senate for the first time on 2 1 November 1973. The Bill was introduced again on 4 April 1974 and again on 31 October 1974. These Bills were similar to the original Bill and included some improvements. The present Bill is identical with the Bill introduced on 3 1 October 1974 and which has now been withdrawn. 
The Bill introduces into Australian law for the first time the obligations contained in the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. It is asserted in this Convention that aU human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights and that any doctrine of superiority based on racial differentiation is scientifically false, morally condemnable, socially unjust and dangerous and without any justification. I need hardly say that I am sure all honourable members would agree with these sentiments. Eighty-one countries have already ratified or acceded to the Convention. The Convention was signed on behalf of Australia on 1 3 October 1966 and the ratification of the Convention by Australia is, I believe. urgent and overdue. 
Legislation has a vital role to play in the elimination of racial discrimination and the enactment of this Bill is a fundamental step, a condition precedent, it could be said, that must be taken if Australia is to ratify the Convention. The common law provides few effective remedies against discrimination in the exercise of human rights, whether it is based on race or colour or on any other grounds. The proscribing of racial discrimination in legislative form will require legal sanctions. These will also make people more aware of the evils, the undesirable and unsociable consequences of discrimination- the hurtful consequences of discrimination- and make them more obvious and conspicuous. In this regard the Bill will perform an important educative role. In addition, the introduction of legislation will furnish legal background on which to rest changes reflecting basic community attitudes. The fact that racial discrimination is unlawful will make it easier for people to resist social pressures that result in discrimination. 
In making racial discrimination unlawful, the Bm follows the definition used in the Convention. The BUI Will thus make it unlawful for a person to do an act involving discrimination based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin which impairs the enjoyment of fundamental rights and freedoms. The Bill will guarantee equality before the law without distinction as to race. It also deals in detail with racial discrimination so far as it concerns access to places and facilities. the provision of land, housing and other accommodation, the provision of goods and services and the right to join trade unions and employment 
The creation of practical and effective legal remedies against discrimination is an important objective of the Bill. Legislative declarations of principle are of little value unless they can be given practical expression. The remedies provided by the Bill will include those of an injunction restraining the doing of discriminatory acts, an order requiring acts of a remedial nature to be done, an order cancelling a contract and damages in respect of the loss suffered by an aggrieved person and the loss of dignity, and the occurrence of humiliation and injury to the feelings of an aggrieved person. 
In addition, the Bill establishes formal administrative machinery for the examination of complaints of racial discrimination on a systematic basis and for the settlement of complaints by conciliation. The Bill recognises that reliance on the spasmodic operation of judicial action or review for the enforcement of the legislation would be unsatisfactory. The Bill also for this reason recognises that an emphasis on mediation and conciliation is a more satisfactory way of tackling individual instances of racial discrimination and the tensions that are associated with individual disputes A Commissioner for Community Relations will be established as an independent statutory authority to undertake these tasks. Where settlement cannot be achieved, the Commissioner will have power to commence legal proceedings before a court to have the legal issues between the parties determined. 
To ensure that the operation of the Act is not frustrated by a lack of co-operation on the part of a respondent, the Bill gives the Commissioner the power to call a compulsory conference for the purpose of inquiring into a complaint and endeavouring to effect a settlement. The Bill will also authorise a judge to require a person to give evidence in relation to a matter that is the subject of an inquiry under the Act. Evidence so obtained will not be admissable in other proceedings except proceedings for giving false evidence. In Canada, compulsory evidence gathering powers are given to the human rights commissions and similar powers are vested in the conciliator established by New Zealand legislation. The absence of evidence-gathering powers in the United Kingdom legislation has been said to impede seriously the effectiveness of that legislation. 
The Bill recognises the importance of developing programs of education and research and other programs to combat racial discrimination and to promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among racial and ethnic groups. Overseas experience has shown that the success of legislation dealing with racial discrimination depends very much on the effectiveness of programs of this kind. The changing of community attitudes is a matter of vital significance in the field of race relations. Both governmental and community-based programs to combat racial discrimination are necessary. Under the Bill, the Commissioner will have the function of conducting and fostering programs of education and research to combat racial discrimination, and a Community Relations Council will be established with an advisory role. Australia will be required by Article 7 of the Convention to conduct programs of this kind to combat racial discrimination. 
The Bill represents an important step in the Government's program with respect to human rights. It will provide the basis upon which Australia can comply with the obligations imposed by the Convention on Racial Discrimination. The Bill is based on the view that laws proscribing discrimination are vital, but not in themselves alone can they be sufficient. The educative role is at least as significant and the Bill recognises that there must also be effective and systematic enforcement of rights and the promotion of education and research, if the elimination of racial discrimination in this country is to be achieved in fact as well as in theory. The Government commends the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Speaker, I thank you. I support the Bill which comes to this House from the Senate. As I have said several times, it is not a Government measure. It is a response to an acceptance by the Government of concern in the community about the existing state of the divorce laws of Australia. I should also say that the Government accepts, and began the proceedings on, the basis that there is to be a free vote to enable honourable members both here and in the Senate to express their wishes. Speaking personallyand that is the only capacity in which I speak- I also have to say that I oppose the amendment because, as I said when I replied to the last remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  I would urge that the form that this Bill should take is a matter for honourable members to decide themselves in the Committee stages as this debate proceeds. 
There are so many things that could be said about this Bill. May I start by trying to qualify in an unusual way, perhaps, why I as an individual have strong views about the Bill. Firstly, as a lawyer I had a fairly extensive divorce practice. I would not want to know how many divorce cases I have fought and lost, as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who sits opposite, would not want to know how many he has fought and lost. But that does give one an insight into the nature of the problem. One is also minded to say that it is a pity, but an unavoidable pity, that so many honourable members, so many people, so many citizens have not really had that experience. I make those comments so that honourable members may attach whatever weight they wish to my following remarks. On a personal point, I should also add that I have been divorced once and I have been happily married twice, so I have had some personal experience of the nature of the problems that can flow from a marriage that has failed. 
Having made those 2 points, let me describe what I believe to be wrong with the existing law, because that is what we are here for. If this Bill is given a second reading that will be an indication that the present law needs to be changed. In 1959  Sir Garfield  Barwick introduced the measure which is the basis of our existing law. At that dme it was regarded as perhaps one of the most advanced pieces of legislation of this kind in the world. It is an indication of changing community attitudes that only 15 years later there is almost universal agreement that it is no longer appropriate. That is the rate of change which we are experiencing today. Even the supporters of the amendment seem to concede that the existing law is completely out of date and that community attitudes have changed fundamentally in 15 years. 
The question is: What is wrong with the existing law? If we cannot answer that question we cannot really put ourselves in the position of deciding what should be done about it and what sort of changes are necessary. I suggest that the problem with the existing law is that essentially it rests on the basis of fault. If one looks at the sections in the existing Act one finds 14 grounds set out. They come down to us from the old ecclesiastical law. They were good and proper in their day. There is on doubt about that. For many years they have been universally under attack because they cause emotions and feelings of guilt. They detract from the dignity and the respectibility that individuals claim to have for themselves. The concept of adultery, the concept of bestiality and all the other grounds are nothing but symptoms, I would suggest, of some malaise that has overtaken a human relationship- a relationship that forms expression in conjugal rights- a marriage. When the marriage begins to fail, for a million different reasons, symptoms emerge. Adultery takes place, cruelty takes place and all the other examples take place that any honourable member can turn to in the 14 grounds that are listed in the Act. 
Another basic fault with the existing law is the concept of the application for relief by the spouse, the husband or the wife, who wants to be protected, wants to call it quits, wants to wind it up, who cannot put up with it any longer or is simply just fed up with the passage of time. Two human beings have grown apart, as surely happens in this world today when wives work and husbands are busy. There is the tension, the rat race if you like, that is a feature of modern life. Civilised people with ordinary, inherent degrees of responsibility say: 'Look, as adults we want to call it off. This law does not take account of those factors. This law says that a petitioner for relief must go to his or her solicitor and say whether he or she has committed adultery. The petitioner must reveal the secrets of the bedroom and the secrets of the coffee table and the breakfast table. If the divorce is under challenge, as it often can be as a result of the way in which the guilt aspect is built into the existing fault concept, it can affect the property settlement. If a wife or a husband has been indiscreet or if he picks his nose at the breakfast table too often- I exaggerate to make a point- in the long term it could adversely affect a possible property settlement, the resolution of the property disputes that might properly exist between the two. It can certainly affect the right of access to and the right of custody of one spouse or the other of the children. 
This feeling of fault is written deep into our existing law. It assumes that one person is guilty and one person is completely innocent. I notice the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  is looking at me. I know he is a lawyer who has had similar experiences to mine. I know that the law adjusts itself to this sort of thing. There are good judges and bad judges. The cases, as they have come down to us from the appellate courts, say that a person must live with this. Nothing could be so bizarre or so extreme as the examples I have put. For those honourable members who have not had experience of the courts, that is the basis upon which the existing law rests. I can recall cases- I am sure every honourable member can- in which this adversary principle which is built into the law and which assumes that there wil be conflict between the parties produces cruel, vexacious and expensive results. All of us who have done this sort of work in the courts know of cases where the inheritance of the children is dissipated because the parties have been encouraged to hate each other to such an extent that they fight on. We have all known cases with silk on both sides, sometimes several silk, which have gone on for years and hundreds of thousands of dollars were spent with the result that there was nothing left for the children. I can remember a case- I do not have the name of it- in which  Mr Justice  Mcclemens of the Supreme Court of New South Wales drew attention to this very matter because the whole thing rests on this fault basis. If you are encouraged to get a divorce by finding the other spouse in bed with somebody else or you try to invent some cruelty ground you feel guilty, you respond and there is an adversary situation and everyone ends up hating everyone else. In effect, you have to hate. You have to fight otherwise you do not get the matrimonial home or you do not get the share that you think you are entitled to- so the lawyer tells you- and you might lose some degree of access to your children. 
That is the basis upon which our law rests. It has to be said in passing that some judges, being human, are unnecessarily prurient and sometimes partake of being voyeurs of the difficulties in which these unfortunate people place themselves. The whole legality, the wig and gown, the formality and the rigidity of the system have to be considered. I have known people- and I am sure the honourable member for Balaclava, the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  know of this- who were terrified to go before a court in a simple undefended divorce. This brings me to another point. Ninety-five per cent of divorces are undefended. Ninety-five per cent of divorces are for practical purposes by consent. Ninety-five per cent of divorces reflect that the marriage has broken down but the parties are obliged to go through this cruel ritual of saying: 'I have never done anything wrong. It is all your fault. You have been sleeping with someone. You have been bashing me, picking your nose or farting at the breakfast table'whatever it happens to be. The whole thing takes on an unreal aspect and it prejudices the civilised resolution of the property settlement which has to be a feature of any system of dissolving a marriage and certainly custody and access of children. 
I remember a case here in Canberra not many years ago in which a man petitioned his wife for divorce on the ground of adultery. The marriage had long since ceased to exist and because of that they had lived separate and apart for years and the man had formed a relationship with some other lady. He had broken off that relationship years after his relationship with his wife had ceased to exist. But when he went to the court seeking a divorce from his wife so he could marry again he did not put in a discretion statement. He fibbed to his lawyer who said to him: 'I have to ask you these questions: Have you ever slept with anyone? Have you ever committed adultery?' The man lied to the lawyer. The lady with whom he had had a relationship put him in to what used to be called the Queen's Proctor- the Attorney-General's office of the day- which under the existing law is charged with probing in an inquisitorial manner the morals of people in this way and his conduct was revealed. The divorce that had been granted was set aside. No one wanted it set aside. The lady who was divorced was happy in her life. Many years had passed. She wanted a divorce. It was virtually a consent situation. The petitioner wanted a divorce. The lady he wanted to marry wanted him to be divorced. The public interest would have been satisfied and it would have been advanced if he had been divorced, but because of these ridiculous barbaric rules which we still have he was not divorced. 
Defences exist in the present law which are called condonation- forgiveness, if you like; connivance, which means bringing it about; and collusion, an agreement to produce grounds for a divorce. I can remember an English case with which honourable members who know a bit about the law will be familiar. I do not say that it is necessarily followed today, because judicial attitudes change. A man came home and found his wife in a compromising situation with some chap. The marriage was at an end. The couple were not unhappy about that fact. They were civilised people. The husband had had a few drinks and he said: 'If you bloody-well want to go to bed together, why don't you? He went away and slept on a couch somewhere.  His  wife and the other chap did go to bed together. Later on when the husband sued for divorce he failed because it was held that he had put them up to it, that he had connived at the commission of the adultery. How absurd. The marriage had finished. It had been finished for years. He was denied relief and his wife, who wanted to marry someone else, was denied relief. So one could go on. 
I am telling you why this law as we have it today cannot continue. The people who support the amendment will defer at this stage our opportunity to change the existing law, because that is what the  Speaker  has ruled. 
-That is right. Under our law you could not bring it up because it would be irrelevant, and it should be irrelevant. This law- it is not my law but I support it- seeks to introduce a simple objective test: Has the marriage ceased to exist? It gets rid of those considerations which are symptoms - 
I think it is. Please may I finish, because my time is running out. One of the great features of this Bill that comes to us from the Senate is that it gets rid of a lot of the aspects I have mentioned. It gets rid of the legalism because it establishes family courts. It tends to reduce the influence of the lawyer. I speak as a lawyer who has the role of deciding these matters. It introduces people with other qualificationsI am sure the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  would appreciate my point- in the humanities and social sciences and welfare work to try to bring about conciliation in a less rigid, less legalistic, less frightening way than under the present system. May I remind honourable members that basic to this Bill is not only the removal of the whole adversary system of proving fault and non-fault and having to say: 'Who has the greater degree of fault? Is my adultery better than yours?' This incredible investigation takes place, today often financed by legal aid. It should not be financed by legal aid because the fault provisions should not exist. Is there to be a more civilised and more rational approach through family courts? One of the major things which for practical purposes will be stopped under this Bill, if the amendment is carried, is the great advance that that has been written into the Bill to reduce this rigidity and legalism by substituting family court procedures. 
The Bill, as it comes to us from the Senate, where it has been accepted by our Senate colleagues, says that it is time we got away from the fault concept. We will never change human nature to a great extent- we all know that- but there is no good inflaming it. It is no good creating an abrasive situation in which people have to defend themselves for the sake of defending themselves and in which private inquiry agents have to be engaged to spy through windows, to raid houses, to slip in and take photographs with cameras with special sophisticated electronic equipment and use electronic listening devices in bedrooms to ascertain whether couples are using words of endearment to each other. The private inquiry agents say: 'If they are using terms of endearment we might be on to something'. What is a term of endearment? They say: 'We will come back tomorrow night or the next night'. That is the law we have at the moment. We put up with it years ago. If progress of civilisation means anything it means growing up. It means moving, as one writer said- I forget who it was; it was Mayne or someone- from the old concept of status to contract. That should appeal to members of the Liberal and Country Parties. It reflects the paramountcy, the primacy, of the human spirit and individuality. People should be able to make their own lives and not be caught up in a system of this sort. 
The Bill provides for a simple breakdown test. I personally take the view that the Bill does not go far enough, although I support it wholeheartedly. Later when this Bill goes into the Committee stage, as I hope it will, I will be seeking to introduce yet another principle. I do not for one moment hold out any great hope that it will succeed. The amendment I will be moving can be moved only in the Committee stage. I intend to move it because basically I believe in it. It is this, that subject to proper and satisfactory arrangements being made for the welfare of children, and particularly if there are no children, what adult people do is primarily a matter for themselves as long as they do not break the criminal law, do not offend their neighbours and are not guilty of breaking the law of torts. 
Our whole criminal law rests upon the notion of individual responsibility. That is the whole basis of Judeo-Christian society and the upward progress of men and women so that when they reach adulthood- whether it be 18 years of age or 2 1 years of age- they are allowed to do what they want to do as long as they do not break the law. It is true that they make mistakes. I will be introducing an amendment that will say that, in the case of consent, where satisfactory arrangements are made for the children, if the parties are adult and responsible the period can be reduced to, say, 3 months. I am a happily married man. My children are grown up. My wife is a responsible woman. If for some reason or other wc decide to get divorced it is no one's business but ours, although that will not happen because we are happily married. That is the principle that I commend to honourable members although I know full well that it will not gain very much support. I put it to honourable members as the road we are travelling and as the road we must continue to travel because it is the road of progress. 
As I have said, I support the Bill. I think it reflects everything for which this country should stand. All the arguments that are being used against it were heard in 1857 when the first matrimonial causes law was enacted in Britain. If one reads the parliamentary debates of 1857 one will find that the opponents of that measure used exactly the same arguments that are being used here today in relation to this measure. As every step has been taken to improve the law the same arguments in opposition have been put. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1975, which I now introduce, is the same as the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1974, which my predecessor in office introduced into the Senate. The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the securities industry in Australia to operate on a sound basis with an effective system of controls administered nationally by a commission to be called the Corporations and Exchange Commission. More specifically the Bm aims to maintain, facilitate and improve the performance of the capital market in the interests of economic development, efficiency and stability. This is in accordance with the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. I am sure it is also in accord with the wishes of all honourable members. 
The introduction of legislation to establish a commission such as the one provided for in the Bill was promised in the policy speech of the Australian Labor Party prior to the election in December 1972. The Bm has been tailored to the requirements of the securities industry in Australia. Many of the provisions are derived from existing State and Territory legislation. But a number of changes have been made. As the classic example of a Securities and Exchange Commission is to be found in the United States of America, due regard has been paid to the laws and practices in that country. In some areas proposals have recently been made in the United Kingdom and some of those proposals have commended themselves for inclusion in the Bill. In other areas the Bill has taken the opportunity to implement changes recommended by the reports of the Company Law Advisory Committee, which was under the chairmanship of  Sir Richard  Eggleston. 
The Bill is, of necessity, a lengthy document, as honourable members will discover, and it covers a wide range of complex matters. In its consideration of those matters my Department was fortunate in having assistance from eminent persons from the United States of America. I mention only two of them in the interests of brevity:  Mr Sol  Freedman, a former senior officer of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, and Professor Louis Loss, Cromwell Professor of Law at Harvard University and the author of an authoritative work on the securities industry in the United States. Professor Loss submitted a report setting out his comments in the light of American experience. That report was tabled on 12 September 1973 and comment invited to assist in the preparation of legislation that would be suited to the needs of Australia. 
Professor Loss's report was followed by the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, which was tabled on 18 July 1974. The Senate Committee's report revealed a disquieting and worrying state of affairs about the way in which the securities industry was being conducted in Australia. The Committee's main finding, which underlined the need for the present Bill, was that there was a need for the immediate establishment of an Australian Securities Commission to regulate the securities market in Australia and the conduct of those engaged in that market. The Senate Committee's report was studied closely, and changes were made to the draft Bill that had already been prepared in the light of the matters discussed in the report and the recommendations made by the Committee. 
The many detailed provisions of the Bill cover a wide range of important matters that have deserved close consideration. Because of this, my predecessor in office introduced the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1974, at the end of the last sittings so that its provisions could be studied during the recess and the representations and comments of interested organisations and members of the public made known. Before the introduction of the 1974 Bill, my Department had had the benefit of much useful discussion and consultation with the stock exchange committees and other interested organisations and individuals. They were generous in the time that they gave to the task of assisting to formulate legislation that would be workable and effective. During the recess, my Department has received a number of representations and submissions. These are now being given close consideration. Where amendments appear to be desirable I shall move them in due course. Our aim is to get the best possible legislation- legislation which will provide protection for the interests of investors and restore confidence in the capital markets in Australia. 
The Bill deals with a wide range of matters that are currently contained in the companies legislation of the States and Territories, and it therefore represents a first step towards the objective of national companies legislation, to which the Government is committed. Other matters of company law, being matters that are not so closely related to the conduct of the securities industry, will be the subject of a further National Companies Bill, which I propose to introduce at an early date. The further Bill will be integrated with the one I am now presenting so that the 2 Bills together will then make comprehensive provisions on a national and up-to-date basis for both company law and the control of the securities industry in our country. 
When my predecessor moved in the Senate on 1 9 March 1 970, for the establishment of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange he referred to the series of company crashes that had occurred in the 1960s and to the widespread evidence of improper practices during the speculative boom in mining shares in the late 1960s and early 1970s. He drew attention then to the fact that members of the public had been induced by false rumours to buy shares, that inside trading was rife and that selfregulatory bodies seemed either powerless or unwilling to act to protect the public against this and the many other market abuses that were prevalent at the time. I have heard it said that the boom time in which these market abuses prevailed is over and that there is no point now in introducing legislation which will merely lock the stable door after the horse has bolted. It would be irresponsible for the Government to base its policies on such a short-sighted view. The need remains for effective legislation which will, so far as practicable, prevent a recurrence of such abuses at any time in the future. Before indicating the nature of the main provisions in the Bill I shall say a word or two about some of the basic requirements for such legislation. 
The need for national legislation 
The report of the Senate Committee on Securities and Exchange drew attention to the need for the securities industry to be subject to national legislation rather than legislation of individual States and Territories. The report made it clear that the securities industry functions on an Australiawide basis, and that control on any other basis is bound to be inadequate. The requirements of the law and the administrative procedures should be the same throughout Australia. The persons responsible for the administration of such legislation must have direct access to information in all parts of Australia. In addition, there is the consideration that there are many large corporations operating across the Australian continent for which the need to comply with the requirements of separate State and Territory laws involves pointless frustrations, unnecessary costs and duplication of resources. 
Uniform State and Territory legislation is not the answer. That approach has been tried and has failed. Efforts to achieve uniformity are invariably slow, and seldom more than partially successful. Even where uniformity has been achieved problems arise from differences between the separate administrations of individual States and Territories. The only satisfactory course, and the course which is adopted by this Bill, is national legislation, and a single administrative agency with jurisdiction throughout Australia 
The need for continuous reform of the law 
One of the problems we have had with company and securities law in Australia has been that the need for changes in the law has occurred more rapidly than the responsible legislatures have been able to make those changes. It has become increasingly evident that it is just not enough to have an expert committee examine certain aspects of company or securities law once in every 15 to 20 years or so. There is a need, which was recognised long ago in the United States and in the First Interim Report of the Eggleston Committee, for an expert body with continuity of existence to be charged with a responsibility for seeing that the laws are kept up to date at all times. There are many matters of detail with respect to which the expert body should be trusted and empowered to make rules of its own having the force of the law. It is sufficient for Parliament to have a power of disallowance over such rules. In other matters of more fundamental importance the expert body should be responsible for submitting reports recommending changes in the law which it considers desirable. 
The need for a preventive approach 
The experiences of recent years have made it clear that it is not sufficient for legislation with respect to securities to prescribe rules and provide remedies that are available when those rules are broken. AU too often the remedies prove to be worthless, either because the trail of the offender is well-covered or because he has placed his assets beyond the reach of the persons who have been defrauded and deceived. There is a need for more emphasis to be given to the prevention of fraudulent conduct. The BUI that I now present recognises this need in a number of ways, but mainly in providing for the establishment of a strong administrative agency, which will have access to relevant information and effective powers to intervene where intervention appears to be desirable. 
The self-regulatory role of stock exchanges 
The management of a stock exchange in Australia is in the hands of a committee elected from its members. The committee has responsibility for a range of matters including the admission of new members, the disciplining of members who act improperly and the listing of securities to be traded on the market of the exchange. The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange found that in the discharge of those regulatory responsibilities the stock exchanges in Australia had been 'seriously wanting'. In fairness to the exchanges I hasten to add that the situations that they had to deal with during the boom years were anything but normal. But the fact remains that the Senate Committee's report has shown very clearly the need for some changes to be made in the selfregulatory roles of the stock exchange committees. 
Criticism of the stock exchange committees should not overlook the fact that the committees perform valuable functions. But there is a need for the committees to be brought under some degree of surveillance by an official body representing the public interest generally. In the United States of America this has been recognised. The Securities and Exchange Commission has been given what has been described as a 'lookingoverthe shoulder' role. That is to say, the immediate day to day management of an exchange remains with that exchange, but the Commission is responsible for ensuring that the rules of the exchange are satisfactory, that those rules are properly enforced and that generally the exchange is conducted with due regard to the interests of the public. 
The present BUI provides for a similar role for the Corporations and Exchange Commission in Australia. In doing so the BUI recognises that the stock market of a stock exchange is like any other market in the sense that it is a place where the public may buy a commodity- in this case securities of corporations. The public needs protection as it does in any other market, and the protection should be provided by appropriate laws coupled with a strong adminstrative agency representative of the public interest. 
The need for prompt and adequate disclosure by corporations 
Legislation cannot protect the individual against his folly or lack of judgment in the making of investments in securities. But there is a need, which the legislation should recognise, to ensure that the investor has access to information which is both relevant and up to date. It should not be overlooked that the funds of public companies come from the public. Relevant information should not be regarded as the exclusive property of the controllers of such companies. There is, in particular, a need for the financial position of companies to be properly disclosed in its accounts, for information concerning matters significantly affecting a company's prospects to be made available promptly and for the identity of the persons beneficially entitled to major shareholdings to be ascertainable. 
The need to prohibit undesirable market practices 
The report of the Senate Committee on Securities and Exchange disclosed a number of undesirable market practices. Practices such as market manipulation, insider trading, short selling and dealing in undesirable conflict of interest situations, to name just a few. These are referred to in the report. They need to be dealt with effectively by the legislation if public confidence is to be restored in our stock markets. 
The need for proper examination of prospectuses 
It is also clear from the report of the Senate Committee on Securities and Exchange- if indeed it was not clear before the report- that there is a need for prospectuses by which the public is to be invited to contribute funds towards companies to be subjected before issue to a more thorough examination by the administering authorities than has been the case. The lack of adequate investigation into prospectuses during the boom years plainly led to millions of dollars being subscribed by the investing public for worthless ventures. Apart from the inevitable losses to the individuals concerned, this involved a substantial misallocation of the country's resources. 
The need for appropriate investigatory powers 
If one thing has been made clear in recent years it has been that the existing method of investigating the activities of companies and the conduct of their officers is altogether too ponderous. All too often reports that are made following investigation action do little more than provide a record for history. It is of the utmost importance that company investigations be made in good time and that they are no longer impeded by the irrelevancy of State boundaries. In recognition of this fact the present Bill contains provisions which will enable the Corporations and Exchange Commission to act quickly and effectively throughout Australia in the conduct of its investigations. 

 Mr Speaker, as the Bill is a particularly long one and as its provisions are indicated in considerable detail in the explanatory memorandum that I have distributed, I do not propose to detain honourable members at this stage by describing its provisions in detail other than to say that they give effect to the requirements and objectives that I have already outlined. There can be no doubting the need for legislation of this kind to provide for the securities industry in this country. If there was ever any doubt about the need for such legislation that doubt was finally dispelled by the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange- the well known Rae Committee report. The Bill that I have presented contains a great many provisions that will have an important bearing upon the functioning of our securities industry in the future. I am confident that they will cause the industry to function much more efficiently and with better regard for the rights of investors. A great deal of careful consideration has been given to the provisions of this Bill. It is an extremely important piece of legislation and the Government commends the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 

I ask for leave of the House to move a motion to discharge certain Tariff Proposals which were moved last year and which constitute part of order of the day No. 29. These proposals were incorporated in the Customs Tariff Bill 1974, Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2) 1974 and the Excise Tariff Bill 1974, all of which have now been assented to. 
-I move: 
That the following Tariff Proposals, constituting part of order of the day No. 29, government business, be discharged: 
I listened with considerable interest to most of the speeches made on both sides of the House- I do not say all speeches, but certainly most speeches- and I mean that quite sincerely. For obvious reasons, I will keep my remarks short. I select the speeches of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  as symptomatic of what this debate is all about. The Government wishes to bring about this change of the law- the consent of the Australian people will be required- because the change is consistent with common sense. 
In delivering his speech on the second reading of the Bill the honourable member for Moreton used all the points that an orator tends to take in this place. I listened with great interest to him for the 20 minutes that he spoke, and I say this to him as a friend: I did not know whether he was in support of or opposed to this measure almost until he was about to sit down. Then, right at the end of his speech, he asked why this matter should be put to the people again and why more important matters such as nuclear energy were not being submitted? He asked by what yardstick these matters were judged and why the Government thought that people wanted this and other similar matters put to them. Right at the end of his speech he reached what he was trying to say: The legislation proposes a referendum which seeks to destroy the relationship between the House of Representatives and the Senate. Indeed, the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  made the same point. It was implicit also in what the honourable member for Stirling said. 
Here lies, I think, the crux of the difference between Government and Opposition spokesmen. On the one hand we have spokesmen for the Labor Party; on the other hand we have spokesmen for the Liberal and the Country Party who always oppose measures of this sort which seek to improve the Constitution. The Government tries to do something about the Constitution. We introduce measure? perc arid we initiate action to allow us to put referendum questions to the people.  Opposition  members talk about and concede the need for. change in the Constitution but have never ever done anything to achieve this end. 
It seems to me that, behind the Opposition's point that there is a relationship between this House and the Senate lies a basic proposition that this Parlaiment is more important than the people. That is the fundamental difference between the Government and the Opposition Parties. The Opposition takes the legalistic approach. It says: 'There is a thing called the Senate'. It was created back in the 19th century to reflect 19th century views'. It reflects good 19th century views, according to the likes of some people. Most people today would argue that those views are not in accordance with the needs of people today:' When a Labor Government comes along and' points' out that common sense dictates that 15 national' elections in 22 years are far too many, the Opposition falls back on its legalistic argument and says: 'Ah, hold on! You would be interfering with the relationship between the Senate and the House of Representatives if you sought to bring elections for both Houses into line. If you said that they had to hold their elections simultaneously, you would be taking away a measure of the rights of senators'. To that proposition, I answer- and I say as strongly as I can- that there is something more important than the rights  of  senators; there is something more important than the rights of members of this great House &lt;?f ^preventatives: I refer to the rights of the people  of  Australia. 
The honourable member for Stirling used the expression 'the will of the people' in almost a derogatory way as if this was irrelevant and a principle to which it was impractical to give expression. The view taken by the Government is quite different Our point of view is that we should try to give effect to whatever the people want. The Opposition claims that we should not even bother the people again with this question. 
We say that this matter is most important because every criticism that is levelled at our Australian Constitution turns on the claim that it does not work today as well as it should. Either the honourable member for Bennelong or the honourable member for Stirling- and I return to this point- seemed to be saying that our Constitution was wonderful and perfect. Whichever honourable member it was, the expression he used was 'beautifully written'. It has been described also as the 'frozen document'. Professor Sawyer of the Australian National University has said that, in constitutional terms, Australia is the frozen continent. It seems almost that the 19th century views embodied in our Constitution cannot be changed. 
By what basic law of natural justice or common sense should the Australian people be required to elect half the Senate from time to time but at times different from the times when they elect the House of Representatives. The Constitution gives paramountcy of power to the House of Representatives. I appreciate that an argument can be made out on the basis of a partnership between the 2 Houses. But the House of Representatives is the people's House. The power and control exercised by the Government stands or falls in the House of Representatives. This House is where money Bills are initiated. This is where the fundamental action, if I may put it that way, takes place. By what rule of common sense do we approve of a situation in which these elections are held at different times and people elect a House of Representatives- the House that they think is the Government- and then have that Government's will thwarted and frustrated by the members of a chamber which is elected at different times from members of the House of Representatives and half of whose members are elected at a different time from the other half of its members. That does not make common sense, and it does not make commonsense to anyone to whom one may try to explain the position. There is a difficulty in explaining it to anyone as the legalism creeps in and people turn off and do not wish to listen to that argument. 
It seems to me that implicit in every argument used against this Government initiative, this still new Government initiative, is the point of view put forward by Liberal Party and Country Party spokesmen that nothing must be changed no matter how bad it is. They pay Up service to the need for change but do not do anything about it. They frustrate and confuse the people so that they become frightened about change. Honourable members opposite approve of a principle that says that a government shall face the people of Australia or shall face the risk of facing the people of Australia every 6 months. The honourable member for Stirling spoke about section 28 of the Constitution and said that it does not give a term of 3 years to this Parliament. When I was a law student one used to argue that a term of 3 years was too short. One used to argue that parliaments needed more than 3 years to give effect to policies. One used to look at the British experience where parliaments had a term of 5 years. But we all grew up with the concept that the term was 3 years. Section 28 certainly assumes that. It says: 
Every House of Representatives shall continue for three years from the first meeting of the House, and no longer, but may be sooner dissolved by the Governor-General. 
But because honourable members opposite occupy the Opposition benches they seem determined to assert the principle that they will not stay there. Because of the relationship between the House of Representatives and the Senate which they applaud and which leads to the situation that exists in this country today, the properly democratically elected Government cannot at any time govern for more than 6 months with any assurance of continuity. That is what Opposition members put as a sincere point of view. That is the inevitable consequence of the point of view that they take when they talk about refusing Supply and maintaining this relationship between the House of Representatives and the Senate. 
As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said so often- he said it during the recent controversy with the New South Wales Premier over the filling of a casual vacancy in the Senate- the assertion of this attitude taken by the Opposition is degrading the whole institution of Parliament. It replaces cosmos, order or system with chaos and uncertainty. No government can carry out its policies while the Opposition persists in this type of opposition to change- to ordered change, to constitutional change, to change that is designed to make the system work. The system should not be scrapped but it should be made to work. As I said, the honourable member for Moreton spoke for 20 minutes and right at the end of his speech, almost as though he had forgotten to say what the Bill was all about and why he was opposing it, he said that it would interfere with the relationship between the House of Representatives and the Senate. He referred to a yardstick. I believe that the yardstick is common sense. Fifteen elections in 22 years, with the uncertainty, the frustration and the burden that it imposes on good government, is too much. It offends common sense. The people of Australia should be allowed to decide what they think about it. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This debate, began with the suggestion by the Government that  2  Bills be dealt with in a cognate debate. I remind honourable members that we are now discussing the first of them, notwithstanding the amusing incident which occurred when the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  delivered his speech believing that he was speaking to the second one. An innocent error has now introduced a cognate debate in spirit if not in fact, although I appreciate that the Opposition did not want to have a cognate debate, It is impossible now to separate the Bills. For the purposes of this speech I will deal with them on that basis. 
The facts are pretty simple. The first BDI seeks to make the High Court of Australia the final place of appeal from courts other than the High Court In other words, within the hierarchy of courts in Australia- whether they be State or Federal courts-the Bill seeks to say that it is time Australia grew up or, rather, it having grown up, it is time we put the seal of approval of formality on its having grown up. Appeals which normally would go to a State supreme court and then perhaps to the Privy Council will now go to our own High Court which is universally recognised as one of the finest High Courts in the common law world. I understand that there is opposition to that proposition from the Liberal and Country Parties. The proposal contained in the second Bill, which appears to be supported by the Liberal and Country Party spokesmen, is that appeals that go to our High Court from the State Supreme courts should not go beyond the High Court; they should stop there. Surely there is an incredible inconsistency in these 2 points of view. The point of view is put that litigants who go through the State system of courts to our own High Court cannot then go to the Privy Council. That having been said, the argument is then put that those litigants who go to the State supreme courts should then be able to bypass our own High Court and go straight to the Privy Council. I suggest that such an argument is absurd and anachronistic and works to the great disadvantage of Australians generally in their march to future adulthood in the international community. 
The honourable member for Moreton who led the debate for the Liberal Party is respected by everyone in this House. No one respects him more than I do. He put forward, in the speech he gave in error, some magnificent sentiments- sentiments that we all applaud. He regretted the passing, the severance- the cutting of the nexus, if one likes to put it that way in an historical sense, with the British source of our common law. Indeed, the honourable member, notwithstanding that he sits on the Opposition benches, does have a strong sense of history, a strong sense of the way historical ties have been formulated. He is honest and frank enough to admit that the legislation before us is the way of the future; this is where we are going. As a matter of fact, some small steps were taken in this direction by  Mr Justice  Bowen in 1968 when he was the Attorney-General. 
But everything the honourable member for Moreton said applauding the High Court everything he said applauding the genius of the common law, everything he said applauding the innate genius of the parliamentary system is equally applicable to the Privy Council Appeals 
Abolition Bill- the one that he now opposes only on the ground of the way that this Government has chosen to go about what the legislation proposes. Even there I detect a slight sense of: 'Well, I am being put up to this' or 'I will do it but my heart is not really in it.' Looking at the honourable member as a man whom all honourable members respect, I say that I believe he is being used in this regard. I believe that his talents and his oratorial powers are being used, because behind him we heard the real force of the Opposition's stand on this matter by the  speaker  from his side of the House who followed him. 
When the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  stood up we saw the real mailed fist of the Opposition's argument. We heard a few passing words that the Opposition applauded the idea that the High Court should be the final court of appeal for Australian litigants. But not much time was spent on this aspect of the legislation. Most of the time was taken up in giving reasons why the legislation should not be passed. Where have we heard this before? The Whitlam Labor Government tries as hard as it knows how to bring the Constitution into line with modern conditions. More often than not our motives are applauded by members of the Opposition but they give one reason or another to confuse the issue and say: 'Ah, it should not be done that way; do it another way'. We heard beautiful examples of this given by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party. The honourable member said: 'Try the reference powers; ask the States to give it up'. Let the honourable member try asking the States to give up this power that they have in the interests of Australians generally and see how far he will get. It has been tried. We write letters to the States and we do not even get an answer. We sit down with the Premiers. But the honourable member knows how far one can get with the leaders of some of the States. 
Reference has also been made to the referendum power. Here in confidence some leaders and some spokesmen from the Liberal and Country Parties on the Opposition benches will say: 'Of course, the Constitution needs to be changed by referendum'. But they are speaking only of matters relating to their own power base, whatever they might be. Let this Labor. Government seek to put up a proposition to the people and see how vigorously the Opposition opposes the right of the Government even to let the people vote on it. Was this not the tenor of the opposition of honourable members opposite before the suspension of the sitting for tea? Was this not the tenor of their opposition back in April and May when we tried to put a number of propositions through this Parliament on which we wanted to seek the guidance and the opinion of the Australian people? Did honourable members opposite oppose those propositions for one reason after another until their ingenuity ran out on them? But then honourable members opposite sit down and say: 'Oh, do not use the request and consent power; do not use that. Oh no, that might mean changing the Constitution in some way. Do it in some other way. ' Of course the list is running out all the time. That is why I interjected during the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party to say that he spoke with 2 voices. The honourable member says- and no one can really argue otherwise if he is honestthat the High Court today must be the final court of appeal. But everything that the honourable member says after that is a sabotage, a design intended to confuse people and frighten people. He uses cliches, extravagance and exaggeration. 
Finally he talked about the Constitutional Convention. We are trying that, too. But just how much success are we having with this avenue at the moment? Notwithstanding what has happened in this regard, we will keep on trying. To those honourable members like the honourable member for Moreton who did bring honesty to this debate, let me say this: If honourable members have legal reservations- and all lawyers do have legal reservations about any way of achieving reform- no doubt the honourable member and I would not present a case to a court in the same way without disagreeing as to how it should be presented- let the court decide. If honourable members approve of what we are trying to do and are honest enough to say that there is a better legal way of doing it, even if what we are proposing is invalid, this legislation should be passed because there will be an opportunity for it to be challenged. We know that the States will challenge it Then it will go to our High Court for determination. Is not that a proper way? Is not that what the High Court is for. Let us resolve this matter in that way. 
I come back to the main theme, namely, that there is a genius in the common law; there is a genius in the Westminster parliamentary system. Let us examine what honourable members opposite want to do. If they want to maintain the common law in Australia there has to be a court laying it down and adjudicating on disputes that are brought before it, using the flexibility and the traditions of common law just as has happened in Britain with the House of Lords and all the superior courts of that country. That is how the common law grew up. The British common law that we inherited did not grow up by means of a system whereby a superior c court, a court of final appeal, existed in, say, Eskimo land or somewhere like that by which British litigants could bypass their own High Court of appeal and go to Eskimo land. How do honourable members opposite think the common law would have developed if that had been the historical experience of the British people. That is what they continually insist should be the position in Australia. If we take this matter a little further, it is a - 
It is a perfect analogy. If the High Court is the High Court as we know it to be, and it is universally applauded as possessing some of the finest legal minds in the common law world - 
Well, it is. If that is accepted, how can it determine and develop a comprehensive and cohesive body of common law in Australia if litigants for their own personal selfish reasons are able to bypass it and go off to another court which sits in England and which increasingly becomes more exposed to the influences that now exist in that part of the world. 
We aU know- at least the honourable member for Moreton and the other lawyers present know- that as England moves closer and closer to Europe and the European Economic Community it becomes more and more subject to European styles of law and European ways of legal thinking. I am not criticising the systems of France, Germany, Sweden or Italy in saying that. But there can be little doubt that the British law and its superior courts are undergoing great periods of change as they accommodate themselves to other systems of law in their part of the world. That is where their immediate future lies. 
The terrible weakness of the Opposition's argument is its advocacy of the practice that all litigants who have a cause in an Australian State court may then, if they think it best, or if the counsel wants a free trip to London paid for by the client- we know that plays a part in the thing too- bypass the High Court and go over to this other court in England which is increasingly interested not in what is happening in Australia but rather in what is happening in Europe. One will never get a flowering of the common law in Australia if we syphon off perhaps one-half or perhaps two-thirds- I do not know what the figures suggest- of the cases that go to appellate courts here from our own High Court to a court overseas that is increasingly not interested. Reality tells us that it i? not interested. Those of us who have looked at the constitutional situationit does not really become relevant hereknow that when the Privy Council used to consider section 92 cases it openly confessed: 'What do we know about section 92. The High Court of Australia knows all about that. It virtually wrote the textbooks on section 92. What do we know about it'. 
The statutes which are enacted here on matters of hire purchase, company law, criminal law, custody law and family law, if the Bill goes through in its present form, are legislative trends miles apart in many ways from the legislative trends in the United Kingdom. The degree of expertise, the degree of judicial competence surely cannot be stretched so far as to say to British judges, no matter how good they might be and they are good: 'Look, in addition to your own tasks in the final court of appeal in the United Kingdom you have to look after a significant number of appeals from Australia too'. They do not want it. We know they do not want it. Anyone who talks to them in private knows they do not want it and even in public the record is clear, but my point is that if the common law is to maintain its genius, its flexibility and its ability to cope with change it has to be in the hands of a court that sits in the country in which the people subject to that law live. You cannot have another court increasingly remote trying to lay down a single set of common law principles for a country on the other side of the world. This would fragment the whole thing. 
I could go on in this vein, but the main point is that behind every proposal that the Opposition speakers have put up there is sophistry. No one seeks to oppose the principle in the legislation. No one says: 'Look, the High Court should not do this sort of tiling'. All that honourable members opposite say is that we should try to find another way of doing it, but behind their argument, as I have suggested, is some kind of innate conservatism that says State governments have State courts. That is true but the twist comes when, as the honourable member for Moreton, I think it was, said that the States are still in one sense colonies of the British Crown. If State politics require some State politicians to go over to the United Kingdom and say, 'Look, I want to preserve some link with you even if it means degrading me in the eyes of Australians generally by relying on some colonial link, some link that is based on subservience, some link that puts me in the position of colonial as against metropolitan power' there is and there must be a wider social interest involved otherwise this country can never advance and put the seal of adulthood on its affairs. All honourable members opposite pay lip service to this principle but basically they all sabotage it by finding one reason or another why it cannot or should not be done. 
Experience over the last 25 years has by and large been that when honourable members opposite were in office they did not even pay lip service to the ideals. For 23 years they did not even speak these words. When we came into office and we began to say these are the things to be done, honourable members opposite then said of course' but really they did not want them to be done. The proof of the pudding is in the eating because they never did these things themselves in 23 years. Basically they feel that the people want these things to be done but whatever it is in their own position as politicians or whoever they represent, they do not want to do it and they come out with these specious legal argumentsand very specious legal arguments- for it not being done. 
The honourable member for Moreton shrugs and he feels hurt. I do not blame him for being hurt. He looks hurt; he should be hurt because I repeat to him that he is being used. He is a person with an obvious sense of history. He spoke about the nostalgia, the great common law, the future, the proper role of the High Court but then he allowed himself to put up arguments once again, as so often has happened in this House over the last two or so years, why something should not be done, why this is not the time or why this is not the way. When an alternative way is put up the honourable member shifts his ground and makes a different suggestion, but in the less sophisticated argument of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  we saw the true position, the true reasons for the opposition and it is, as I have tried to suggest, that there are priveleges to be gained still in certain areas of Australian politics, privileges that in part are furthered and advanced by retaining this colonial link in the way I have tried to describe. That link should be broken because we are one nation. It does not have to be called centralism; it can be called federalism in 1975 because in that sense I am a federalist. 
If the Opposition succeeds in defeating the legislation it will defeat the very thing which the honourable member for Moreton talks about with such praise and that is the flowering and the further advancement of the common law and the parliamentary system because they will be fragmented and they will be denied the opportunity to be determined here in Australia by our own High Court which is universally acclaimed as perhaps the finest common law court in the world. 
I regret that I have to inform the honourable member that I did not read the article to which he refers. Not having read the article, I do not know what the allegations are. I shall make inquiries, however, and arrange to let the honourable member have an answer. 
As soon as possible. The honourable member would be aware, of course, that an inquiry is being conducted into the whole general subject matter by  Mr Justice  Hope. 
-My understanding is that an informant did pass certain information to the Commonwealth police. I do not know whether he passed information to the New South Wales police. It may be that he did; it may be that he did not. My understanding is that the Commonwealth police then took the appropriate action and effected an arrest. That power is within their authority and certainly they did have authority to make the arrest. An information was laid and proceedings then commenced in the magistrates court. I understand that the gentleman who was arrested was charged with stealing. There may have been another charge- I think there wasabout illegal use, a false number plate or an offence of that kind. I understand that the charge was read and that the person concerned pleaded guilty, certainly to one charge, perhaps both, and was dealt with by the magistrate. Everything that has been put to me confirms that the police acted properly, that the magistrate acted properly and that the man was dealt with properly. 
Perhaps it was predictable that members of the Opposition would take such action as they have taken because we know they speak for their clients- we know they speak for vested interests in this country. We know the social mischief that was revealed in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange- the Rae Committee. That report, which was presented towards the middle of last year, called for the situation to be put right, as soon as possible. In fact, a recommendation of the Rae Committee report was that a body with the powers of a securities and exchange Commission be set up immediately. It is now 9 months later. May I tell honourable members some aspects they may have overlooked. The proposal to have legislation of this sort can be traced back at least as far as the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in December 1972. It was repeated in the policy speech of March and April 1974. How much time does the Opposition need to reflect on the fact that 
Australia needs legislation of this sort to protect Australian investors? There never has been a social situation in Australia crying out more for reform. Consequently it has been studied deeply with the idea of it being reformed and examined with an intensity rarely given to legislation. 
The Rae Committee report, presented last year, encompasses many volumes. On 5 December, almost 3 months ago, the then AttorneyGeneral introduced this measure into the Senate. Do we have to assume that members of the Liberal Party who are senators do not speak to members of the Liberal Party who are members of the House of Representatives? Are we asked to believe that honourable members opposite are not sufficiently interested to go to the Senate side of this one building and get a copy of the Bill? It was a public statement. Three months ago the Bill was in the Senate, so members opposite have had 3 months to study it. The explanatory memorandum, which they complain they have not had time to read, has been available for 3 months. Are they saying that they are too lazy or are lacking in interest in the social scandal that was revealed by the Rae Committee report- a committee chaired by a member of their own Party? Are they telling us that they are so lacking in interest and concern for Australia's welfare - 
I am giving every reason why Standing Orders should not be suspended. These reasons should be obvious to honourable members. Opposition members have had almost 3 years to think about this matter. They have had since the middle of last year to know that there has been a crying demand for the situation to be put right. They have known of this Bill as a concrete proposal since the then Attorney-General introduced the measure in the Senate on 5 December, nearly 3 months ago. How much time do they want? Are we driven to the view that their credibility is in issue? 
I have given many reasons already. The opportunity has been given over and over again to Liberal Party and Country Party members to interest themselves in this matter and to be aware, even in the slightest way, that there was a social wrong crying out to be put right. Their own colleagues in the Senate said so, and said so with a clear and loud voice. Now yielding to pressure, predictably as I said, members opposite say: 'No, this in not the time; give us more time; slow down; stop; do not effect this reform '. One could go on. 
I take one point that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  made which can be misleading. He referred to Orders of the Day. He said that all the stages of this Bill are listed. I inform the honourable member that there is no intention on the part of the Government to put the Bill through all its stages today. 
-No, it is not a change. I spoke to the learned  Senator Greenwood,  to whom the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has referred, as long ago as last Thursday and told him that we would be introducing the Bill and that we would allow reasonable time for debate. When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition rang me on Sunday I told him again that we would allow reasonable time for debate, and that is our intention. When I spoke to  Mr Valder,  the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange and the  Chairman  of the Associated Stock Exchanges of Australia, perhaps an hour or so ago, I gave him the same assurances. It is our intention to allow reasonable time for debate. But I have to say this: One knows from experience in dealing with members of the Opposition how they frustrate, stall and block legislation- even legislation of this sort that is desired by almost all Australians except for a few who made millions and millions of dollars out ofthe scandals in the share market a year or so ago. 
-The point has to be made as part of that debate that the Government did not move the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. I am speaking in reply to the motion which has been moved by the Opposition, and I am pointing out to this House the frivolous and obstructionist attitude of the Opposition. I am questioning their credibility. In other words, the point that I am trying to make is that when one listens to the arguments put forward by the 2 speakers from the Liberal Party one also has to have regard to their motives. If one is to attach any weight to what they say, one listens to the arguments and looks to the position which those honourable members seek to protect. One looks also at the way in which honourable members opposite have behaved, ever since this Government came to office, to see their attitude to measures of this sort. They delay, frustrate and stall. 
What I invite the House to do in this situation is to say that it does not accept for one minute that there is any need to postpone the commencement of this debate any longer, and the reason for that is that when one looks at the role of the Opposition parties- the Country Party and the Liberal Party- ever since they went into Opposition and the Labor Party came into office, one can draw the natural conclusion that their intention is to delay and frustrate all the time. Then when one looks at the concrete points of this Bill, and puts aside the motives that lie behind the attempt to suspend Standing Orders- to delay- one still draws the conclusion that honourable members opposite seek to advance the interests of their clients, the people whom they really serve - 

 -Mr Speaker, the behaviour of Opposition spokesmen to measures of this sort ever since they have been in Opposition could hardly be more relevant to the question that is before this House. They claim that this Bill should not be proceeded with now. That is the question at issue. Yet they oppose everything. If the inference to be drawn is that they oppose measures because they protect people, vested interests, then this House is certainly entitled to take that into account when it considers why they choose now to move for the suspension of Standing Orders and not have this Bill come on for debate. 
I shall just go over some of the outstanding points. This Bill was referred to in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in December 1972- he said that the Government would be introducing legislation of this sort- and it was repeated in his policy speech of March 1974. The social mischief which exists and which has to be put right has been considered by many of the State governments, which have set up corporate affairs commissions. They were aware of the situation. Are honourable members opposite saying to us that they have not put their minds to this question before? Are they saying that they have suddenly been asked to debate it in this House today, notwithstanding that the Rae Committee report called for the immediate creation of a securities and exchange commission months ago? 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Lynch's)  be agreed to. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the question.  His  interest in consumer protection matters is well known. I am aware of the report by the Australian Consumers Association and the fact that the Association considers that a large number of products presently on the market dealing with baby nappy disinfectants are next to useless or in some cases possibly even harmful. I am told that at present the Aus- . tralian' Government Analyst is conducting research into the problem at the request of the Trade Practices Commission. He is investigating the claims of the manufacture of these goods. The Trade Practices Act, as honourable members would know, prohibits a corporation from engaging in trade or commerce or any conduct that is misleading or deceptive. The Trade Practices Act also prohibits the making of false representations about the uses or benefits that goods do not in fact have. It is one of the many achievements of this Government that we now have legislation of this sort. I understand that the Trade Practices Commission is currently investigating this matter with a view to considering possible prosecution or injunction proceedings relating to the supply of the goods. The product may well be a proper subject for consideration in relation to the product safety standard provided by the Trade Practices Act. I am having that aspect of the matter investigated. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend the Trade Practices Act 1974 to prohibit the sending of unsolicited credit cards. The Bill also provides for amendments to section 5 1 , to adjust the scope of operation of certain exceptions to the Act, and sections 62 and 63, to allow promulgation of consumer product safety and information standards which do not apply to the export trade. 
Credit cards are a part- in many respects a desirable part- of everyday life for many Australians. A great deal of business is transacted on credit and credit cards are undoubtedly a convenient means of obtaining credit. If credit cards are furnished only to persons who have sought them, there is in general no cause of complaint. This Bill will have no application in those circumstances. Last year a vast number of credit cards were sent out to persons who had not sought them. That was not desirable. The Standing Committee of Attorneys-General last October expressed particular concern about the matter. The Bill will accordingly prohibit for the future the sending out of such cards on an unsolicited basis. 
The Trade Practices Act already contains provisions with respect to unsolicited goods, but those provisions are not appropriate for credit cards, the special nature of which, when sent out unsolicited, gives rise to special objections. When credit cards are sent out unsolicited, they can, and often do, find their way into the hands of the wrong persons. They then become a means by which unscrupulous persons can perpetrate frauds- a means by which such persons may obtain goods and services to which they are not entitled. The cards then become a menace to the business community and to the persons who are put to considerable trouble and expense in establishing that they are not liable for goods or services obtained on the faith of cards issued to them. I refer to goods or services supplied in their name but never received by them. Many cases of this kind occurred last year when the mass distribution of unsolicited bank cards took place. 
Apart from the risk of credit cards getting into wrong hands, there are other objections to their being sent out unsolicited. A person who receives an unsolicited card that has been issued to him is confronted with a problem as to what he should do with it. Many such persons have little knowledge of the law and they are placed in a position of some anxiety as to what steps they must take to ensure that they incur no unintended liability. There are also reasons, from a privacy point of view, why credit ratings of persons who have not sought them should not be made and recorded, for example, in a computer to which many other persons could well have access. 
A credit arrangement is a personal matter between the person providing the credit and the person receiving it. It should remain that way and should not be rendered impersonal by credit , cards that are sent out without any request. Although it is a matter of opinion that is not the subject of general agreement, it is, or has been, claimed that the mass distribution of unsolicited credit cards can create undesirable inflationary influences. Persons who have not sought credit find it readily available and are encouraged to use it- with a consequential increase in the demand for goods and services. Other countries, notably the United States of America and the United Kingdom, have taken a similar approach to the matter and have banned unsolicited cards. 
I turn briefly to the other amendments proposed by this Bill. Section 5 1 of the Trade Practices Act provides certain exceptions to the prohibitions of the restrictive trade practices provisions of the Act. A question has arisen, however, whether a contract excepted by the section may nevertheless be rendered unenforceable by section 45. Such a result was plainly never intended and the Bill makes it clear that an excepted contract is enforceable. 
Sections 62 and 63 of the Act authorise the making of regulations to prescribe consumer product safety and information standards. These standards seek to ensure that goods which can be unsafe or hazardous in the hands of consumers are either not supplied to consumers, or are supplied to them with adequate warning of potential dangers. As the Act now stands, a standard must always apply to Australia's export trade as well as to domestic trade. 
The amendments proposed in the Bill enable the regulations prescribing such standards to exclude from their operation goods intended for use outside Australia. In such situations, the Government believes that the standards of the country to which the goods are to be sent should apply, not the standards of Australia. Many other countries of the world set standards with which consumer goods sold in their countries must comply. Although there is some uniformity of approach between countries in these matters, one must expect some differences to arise. These amendments would permit regulations promulgating standards to be made inapplicable to exported goods, so that Australian exporters are not faced with the problem of compliance with incompatible standards. The amendments would also help to prevent inconsistency arising with standards set pursuant to Australian Exports Regulations.  Mr Speaker,  I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
Without being unnecessarily abrasive - 
-Try me some time. One has to admire the apparent reasonableness of the members of the Opposition as they ask that this Bill, containing nearly 300 clauses, be considered in Committee and they start off by directing attention to the title clause, clause 1, to clause 2 and to the definitions clause, clause 3. One is entitled at the outset and without being unnecessarily abrasive to question once again the motives of the Opposition. 
I will say it because it will be relevant to what I say answering the questions that have been raised. It is known that this Bill has been a public document for 3 months. Yet members of the Opposition come in here now and start asking questions about the definitions clause as though they have never seen it before. The inference I put forward, before I go on to give some information about the questions asked, is that they are not really serious. The Government does not believe in their sincerity on this matter one little bit. I certainly do not accept their apparent sincerity which is now being put forward by mock bad actors. All they are seeking to do is to delay and frustrate this measure. They see this going on and on for 6 months. They do not want this measure to become law, notwithstanding what they say to the contrary. 
Some aspects of the definitions clause raised first by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  can be dealt with reasonably shortly. He talked about the mining companies. He would be aware that there is an area of uncertainty as to whether the constitutional scope extends to them. The definition is in the Bill. It depends, of course, on the activities of the companies. On that point one can only refer to the mischief which was revealed by the investigations of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange and which applied not so much to the mining companies but to the trading that took place in mining shares and mining stock. 
-As the honourable member for Hawker interjects, and rightly so, it was the machinations. It was the trading, the shenanigans and the crooked dealings which took place in regard to the securities in those mining companies. It was not so much the conduct of the mining companies themselves but rather how the smart boys in Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide got to work on the shares and the securities. That is the mischief at which this legislation is aimed. It is that mischief which this legislation is intended to cure. The honourable member for Curtin asked whether the definition of 'debenture' extended to instruments such as bills of exchange. It clearly does not, in the sense that the use of the word 'debenture' has to be related to the issuing of a prospectus to the public. In other words, it is the issue of a document or an instrument to the public as a means of subscribing funds at which this legislation is aimed, and a bill of exchange does not come into that at all. Whatever was the appropriate instrument that might be used by a corporation to achieve that purpose, it would be caught by the definition of 'debenture', but it is most unlikely that it would be a bill of exchange. 
I think it was the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  who raised the question of prescribed corporations and said that there is no reference to companies which have issued securities to the public. I direct his attention to clause 45 which uses the definition. I think he will find that that clause makes it clear. The other question related to journalists being required to register their interests in matters of this sort. We all know the power of the Press. Politicians probably know it more than any others do. It has been considered necessary to ensure that journalists keep records of all their securities and transactions because if they were not required to report their interest in securities of private corporations they could really use private corporations to deal for them in public corporations. The measure that has been adopted in the Bill is completely consistent with that whole main thrust. 
There is nothing novel in this approach. It goes right back to one of the very early pieces of legislation of this Parliament, the Secret Commissions Act. The whole concept of the breach of fiduciary duty between principal and agent is dealt with in that very early Act of this Parliament. We all know the opportunities for abuse between principal and agent. We all know the obligations on, say, solicitors to have trust accounts and to keep their funds separate from those of their clients. 
We know the high standards of care and duty imposed upon them because of the opportunities for abuse. This Bill seeks to extend those duties which have existed for many years in ordinary areas of law, such as principal and agent, into this growing securities industry. It should be said in passing that, notwithstanding the bluff hyperbole and acting of the Opposition spokesmen who referred to this Bill as a measure of socialism, it was introduced into the United States of America- the homeland of capitalism- in 1934. 
It is modelled on it, as the honourable member well knows. It is designed to make the capitalist system work better, not worse. 
It is to be regretted that the debate has degenerated into this type of exchange. I remind the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  of the way in which the debate began. Who was it who moved for the suspension of Standing Orders in order to prevent the debate from proceeding and then wasted perhaps an hour or 2 hours of the Parliament's time? 
I do not want to revive the second reading debate, but on the question of the credibility of Opposition spokesmen I am entitled to put the point as strongly as I can that their credibility is in doubt in relation to this matter because it was they who moved for the adjournment of the debate within seconds - 
I accept your ruling,  Mr Chairman.  Unless overriden, I shall deal with the matters that have been raised, bearing in mind the credibility or lack of credibility that I attach to Opposition spokesmen. A good example of it can be found in what the honourable member for Moreton said about the need for a definition of 'stockbroker'. He has had the Bill for so long and yet he has not even read the definitions which it contains. If he looks at them he will find that the Bill includes a definition of a 'dealer' and that that definition, which is in the plainest of simple English, includes a stockbroker. The definitions in the Bill are taken straight from the State Acts in which the definition of a 'stockbroker' is not given. The honourable member suggests that it is an amazing thing that that definition has been left out of the Bill. It has been left out of every State Act dealing with this subject because those Acts have opted to give a definition of a 'dealer' as that definition includes a stockbroker. There are 3 definitions in the definition clauses of the Bill relating to that subject and I direct the honourable member's attention to them. Once again this is an example of how the time of the Parliament has been wasted. 
A simple reading of the Bill will give the honourable member the answers to his questions in relation to securities and mutual and unit trust interests. I direct the attention of the honourable member to Division 6 of Part VII of the Bill which the honourable member has had to study all of this time. That part of the Bill deals fully with the question of interests of various types, including the ones that he has mentioned. The honourable member should look to the definition of a 'prescribed interest'. 
The answer to the question raised by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)isno. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 12- by leave- taken together. 
We would suggest that there is not a gap or weakness in the clause. It is written in simple English. I put it to the honourable member, for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  that I know of no rule of law that says that the English language can be made so precise as to overcome every possible contingency. The words have to be given meaning by the courts. Surely they are quite clear enough. The honourable gentleman knows of the breadth of words. In fact, he will have an opportunity perhaps tomorrow when we are considering another Bill to talk about specific words and general words. I will read to the honourable member the clear language of clause 5. 
-Let me read it to the honourable member again: 
Where provision is made by this Act for an application, report or other document to be lodged with or given or sent to the Commission - 
the application, report or other document shall be delivered, or sent by post, to the office of the Commission; 
There are clearly understood legal rules that govern that situation, and the honourable gentleman knows them. The clause goes on: 
if the application, report or document is required to be lodged with or given or sent to the Commission on or by a particular day and the office of the Commission is not open on that day, it is a sufficient compliance with the requirement if the application, report or other document is delivered to the Commission, or sent by post to the Commission so that it would be delivered to the Commission in the ordinary course of post - 
They are well understood- terms and probably have been the subject of hundreds and hundreds  of legal decisions - -on or by, as the case may be, the next day on which that office is open; 
I also put it to the honourable member that the document must only be put in the post to be delivered on the next day on which the Commission is open. The clause seems to me to be completely clear. 
I have considered it and I have rejected it. I am not being obstinate. I direct the attention of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  to the definition of 'dealer', which means a person carrying on a business of dealing in securities, I direct his attention to the definition of a 'dealer's licence', I direct his attention to the definition of 'dealer's representatives licence' and I direct his attention to the definition of dealing', which states: 
Dealing', in relation to securities, means (whether as principal or agent) making or offering to make, or inducing or attempting to induce a person to make or to offer to make, an agreement - 
for or with a view to acquiring, disposing of, subscribing for, or underwriting, securities; 
That is stockbrokers ' work - 
the purpose or purported purpose of which is to secure a profit or gain to any of the parties to the agreement in relation to securities. 
That is stockbrokers ' work. 
I ask the honourable member for Moreton not to be obstructionist and not to waste the time of this Parliament. I turn to the remarks of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who asked a question about clause 10. He is not listening. Perhaps he is not really interested, as I have suggested. The honourable member for Curtin asked about the effect of clauses 10 and 12 on merchant banks and institutions of that sort. If he reads the Bill, particularly if he looks at clause 1 6 1 , he will find that it relates only to prospectuses which are being made as part of an offer to the public. So it clearly excludes the area of concern he has expressed. 
Clause 161 and the whole context of the Bill. Please read it. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 13 to 15- by leave- taken together. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  correctly drew attention to the fact that the language in clause 14 and clause 1 1 1 is broad, as indeed it has to be broad because of the abuses revealed by the Rae Committee. I might remind honourable members of the general recommendation of that Committee in this area, going to the question of a licence holder disclosing his interest in securities when making a recommendation. We have the example of corporations going behind the corporate veil. No one would argue more strongly than I do that the invention and development of the limited liability company have been a great engine for progress in the world over many years. But no one would argue or could argue more strongly than I that it has also been a great engine for fraud and deceit. Of course, the Rae Committee report tells us this, if we needed to be told. The problem of law really is to try to draw attention to the standards, lay down the duties and impose the standards on people so that if they are in breach of these standards so as to cause injury by the committing of a fraud, the people concerned will be guilty of some offence or at least be subject to some civil liability to the person injured. All that this legislation seeks to do is to bring this about. 
We know that when we go behind the corporate veil we find a separate corporate identity made up of people who live together. Any lawyer on the other side of the chamber would know the difficulties of proving a representation that comes from a corporation when one is not in possession of the facts that lead to the creation of the authority of the person to make the representation on behalf of the corporation, notwithstanding provisions for discovery, interrogatories and matters of that sort. I was involved in a case in the Australian Capital Territory not so long ago that went to the High Court on that very issue, involving some of the very great corporations in Australia. With those difficulties of getting behind the corporate veil and finding out what is going on and whether certain activities are to the detriment of outsiders, law-makers like ourselves have to come along and give the injured person a better remedy than he has at the moment. That is what this legislation seeks to do. This legislation is broad, but so is every type of legislation of this sort that has ever been enacted. All legislation of this kind has been broad and the courts interpret it having regard to the mischief which they are intended to stop. 
The honourable member for Moreton also referred to clause 13 (1) and talked about and criticised the word 'member'. He said that the word should be changed to 'conference exchange' or an expression of that sort. We would suggest that there is absolutely no need for such a change. The use of the word 'member' in that context is clear and acceptable and there is no need for it to be replaced with the words conference exchange'. I remind the honourable member again that exchanges are required to be incorporated. With the exception of the Brisbane Exchange, all the exchanges are incorporated. I understand that the Brisbane Exchange has been dragging its feet for a while. When this Bill becomes law, as we hope it will, that exchange obviously will be assisted in its steps towards incorporation by the requirement that it be incorporated. 
The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  talked about the definition of associated' in relation to clause 14 (f). The definition in clause 14 must be sufficiently wide to catch well practised schemes designed to disassociate persons from their misdeeds. I put this to honourable members: When one looks at this legislative scheme one sees 2 measures in the mind of the Government. One is customer protection and the other is protection of the investor- - consumer protection if one likes to use that expression. In devising a means of giving that protection by way of all these legislative steps, one has to take account of the different levels of some of the customers. Given the nature of the industry, some people are particularly vulnerable. We know that. Some are naive. Some have had no experience at all. On the other hand, others, particularly those who use the facilities of merchant banks and the city, are particularly sophisticated and experienced investors operating in and through great corporations, and need less assistance. The legislation seeks to take into account the difference between the great who do not need a great deal of protection and who can be expected to be able to employ expensive lawyers to guard their interests and the little person, the battler, the fellow who was deceived so badly some years ago and continues to be deceived from time to time, who needs protection. The legislation seeks to draw attention because of the different dealings that occur between those 2 types of clients, customers or consumers of the service. 
We must bear in mind when looking at all the measures that the Bill also seeks to facilitate the free working of the market. This is where the rubbish is put and the lie is put to allegations of some kind of socialist monster. The legislation copies a model from the home of capitalism- the United States of America. The legislation is designed to take account of the fact that practices have grown up in the industry which do not allow the market to work as it should work and so correctly allocate resources into the best and optimum areas. It is designed really to facilitate the free working of the capital market in this country. I ask honourable members not to forget those 2 main threads that go through the overall cloth that make up this Bill. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 16. 
1 ) For the purposes of this Act, a corporation shall, subject to sub-section (3), be deemed to be a subsidiary of another corporation if- 
that other corporation- 
controls the composition of the board of directors of the first-mentioned corporation; 
is in a position to cast, or control the casting of, more than one-half of the maximum number of votes that might be cast at a general meeting of the firstmentioned corporation; or 
holds more than one-half of the issued share capital of the first-mentioned corporations (excluding any part of that issued share capital that carries no right to participate beyond a specified amount in a distribution of either profits or capital); or 
the first-mentioned corporation is a subsidiary of any corporation that is that other corporation 's subsidiary. 
A reference in this Act to the holding corporation of another corporation shall be read as a reference to a corporation of which that last-mentioned corporation is a subsidiary. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), at the end of paragraph (b), add "(including any corporation that is that other corporation's subsidiary by another application or other applications of this paragraph)". 
In sub-clause (4), omit "last-mentioned", substitute "other". 
The first amendment to clause 16 is straightforward. It simply seeks to ensure that a chain of subsidiaries is also included in the area of protection. It is thought to be an improvement and I do not anticipate- and I hope I do not hear- any opposition from honourable members. I would be surprised if there were any opposition because it seems to put the clause in a better form. It is a drafting improvement. It seeks to omit the words last-mentioned' where they appear in clause 16, page 14, line 32 and substitute the word 'other'. As presently drafted it might be argued that the expression 'last-mentioned corporation' in line 32 refers to the word 'corporation' where secondly appearing in line 31. The amendment would make it clear that the reference is to the word 'corporation' where first appearing in line 31. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 17 to 33- by leave- taken together. 
The remarks made by honourable members about clause 21, and in particular sub-clause (3), concerning the qualifications of members of the Commission are relevant and are very much in the Government's mind. There can belittle doubt that the people who make up this Commission will have an extremely important role to play in the industry and the effect that the industry has on investment generally in Australia. Let no one be under any misapprehension about it. The Government appreciates that fact fully and when the time comes to find those people every effort will be made to find those most suitable for the job. They will have to be acceptable to the industry and that is appreciated. They will have to be men or women with a great breadth of experience and understanding. That is why the various qualifying features were written into the Bill. 
Clause 21 states that a person shall not be appointed to the Commission unless the Governor-General is satisfied as to his or her knowledge in industry, commerce, economics, law or public administration. The words are flexible. They are very wide. I say in passingplease do not misunderstand my saying this because I know it is understood that I represent Canberra, which has a lot of public servants- no one should under-estimate the qualifications of senior public servants. They are extremely capable and competent people. Because of the nature of their work they are often able to take a broad view of a whole industry that people in the industry or a particular part of it have difficulty in taking because their experience has not given them the breadth of view that sometimes a senior public servant has. That provision is there only to give flexibility and no one would appreciate more than I the fact that the personnel must be acceptable to the industry. Otherwise the whole thing would not function at all. A number of other points were made. Some concern was expressed, I think by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  in his usual flowery language. 
All right, if the honourable member wishes. The honourable member for Moreton referred to clause 20 (2) (c) as being a Henry VIII clause. I would suggest that it is not, although it bears some such features. One has also to take into account without departing in any way from the sovereignty of Parliament and the important role that Parliament must play and must continue to play and the emphasis that this Government gives to making it play a role and to making it work better- I do not want to get sidetracked into the role of Oppositions and governments in this unfortunate debate- one also has to recognise that the modern world is so incredibly complex, especially in an industry like the securities industry, that the House of Representatives and the Senate are not really equipped, because of their history, to go into some of these practical bread and butter day-to-day matters. 
-No one has ever argued that the Commission has to be an SEC type body. I have not heard anyone really argue that seriously here. The argument seems to be around the size of the Commission, the extent of its powers or the choice of language used in creating those powers. No one has ever argued that there should not be a statutory corporation type body beyond the Parliament with its day-to-day administration of the system and that it should have a rule making power. 
The rule making power is set out in clause 20. One has to realise that it is a kind of statement of intent as much as anything else. The language in the clause hardly enlarges the power. It is really a preambular approach. This is becoming increasingly common with parliamentary counsel these days. Of course we know what clause 20 says. It provides that the Commission shall have such functions as are conferred on it by this proposed Act. If the Commission goes outside of the provisions of the proposed Act the normal principles of ultra vires apply. There may be actions in the courts which can declare invalid a rule making exercise of the Commission, if it is outside of the scope of the proposed Act, and bring it crumbling to the ground. There is surely no problem there. 
Clause 20 (2) states: 
It is the duty of the Commission to the extent to which the Parliament has power to confer that duty on the Com-, mission. 
Again there is strict compliance with an attempt to be legalistic and proper to ensure adequate protection of persons who invest in securities of prescribed corporations. There is not a conference of power there so much as a conveyance by the Government to the Commission of what the Government thinks the Commission should try to do, namely, to protect persons who invest in securities in corporations. In other words, if these provisions were not there the members of the Commission might well say: 'Where do we go to find out what we are supposed to do?' We know we can do some things but where are we to go in this Act to find out what we are supposed to do? What does the Government have in mind for us?' All clause 20 seeks to do is to assist in that regard. 
In the Industries Assistance Commission Act, with which honourable members would be familiar, is a clause which sets out what the Government hopes the IAC will bear in mind as it goes about carrying out its function. Clause 20 provides the same sort of provision. Clause 20. (2) (b) states that the Commission shall maintain effective surveillance over the operations and activities of certain organisations and persons and sub-clause (c) is almost an exhortation to the Commission, I suppose, to be vigorous and active in its work. That is really all that provision does. It does not give the Commission any extra available powers. It states:  -take such action (including the making of rules under section 283) as is necessary and available to it - 
In other words the Commission is to act within its powers and the power comes from the proposed Act. It is the proposed Act that we are considering now. As I said, the ultra vires principle stands behind that so it is not a Henry VIII clause. It is ridiculous to suggest it, although it sounds elegant to do so, as the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  said a moment ago. Another aspect also comes into the category. I see that my good friend the honourable member for Moreton has left the chamber. I suppose he has something better to do. He made something of a word that he found going through the Bill, as he is going through it now for the first time, it seems. He found the word 'promote'. 
Why, because he is not here? 
-That is the impression he gives me. Is it not the impression he gives you? Clause 20 contains a number of sub-clauses. If honourable members have read the Rae Committee report they will know that the sub-clauses are almost all taken right out of the Rae Committee report; certainly (f) is and I am almost certain that (g) is. 'Promote' may not be a lawyers' word. It is synonomous for practical purposes with 'encourage'. To suggest this nasty thought that in some way there is a proprietorial interests, that in some way this Government wants to take over things when all it is doing is bringing into being a body that will regulate this industry in a way that will promote the national interest, the public interest and the interest of investors, to suggest that just because the Commission is called upon to promote the establishment of a national stock market there is something wrong with the word, is stretching the English language. If the honourable member wants to take out 'promote' and insert 'encourage' I would not quibble with him. But I suggest that we are wasting time to talk about it. He is wasting time to raise the subject. 'Promote' means to encourage in that context and no one would argue otherwise. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  made his first mistake when he said that there was power to delegate. Now he has made his second mistake. If one looks at clause 60 one sees the gist of his mistake. The Commission can prohibit trading only in a specified security, not in the lot, and that can be overriden by the Government. What is wrong with the Government being the final court of appeal? 
-Not in a situation of that sort. It is typical of Opposition members that they try to bring Government into disrepute. Government has the final sanction behind it, a sanction far more effective than any court or any commission. It has the sanction of public opinion, because it has to face the people at election time. Therefore Government always has to do the right thing. There is no better sanction than the whiplash of public opinion behind government. Honourable members opposite forget that. They always forgot it when they were in government. We never forget it. 
The honourable member for Moreton is about to leave the chamber, having made his second consecutive mistake. What is one supposed to do? We go through this ritual farce of the honourable member, having read the Bill for the first time now, although it has been available for months and having known for years that there was the need for such a Bill, coming into this chamber and having the gall to say that he wants to go through the Bill and ask: 'What about this section? What about this? What about something else?' He is exposed for his hypocrisy. He goes on with this nonsense. Is it any wonder that we do not hold him in any great respect and that his credibility is low? 
Yes, that is quite right. I have put the point to my honourable friend from Moreton that he has made his second consecutive error. I wish that he would stop wasting time. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 34. 038013705 (4) Clause 34, in its present form, staffing of the Commission when it is created. The clause that we seek to amend provides that the Governor-General, in accordance with a recommendation of the Commission that has been approved by the Attorney-General, may regulate the salaries, conditions, etc., of the staff. The Government considers that it would be better if we bring the Commission within the normal structure of the Public Service Board. That is the reason we have moved this amendment. I should mention that some of the other amendments are consequential upon this one. The advantages of this provision are that it enhances the prestige of the Commission and it lessens the opportunities for, shall we say, patronage or jobbing or that sort of thing which is of concern to any member of this Parliament. It brings it within the wellrecognised system of career opportunities for staff and within the compass ofthe Public Service Board. I commend the amendment to honourable members. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 35 to 44- by leave- taken together. 
The answer to the query raised by my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is that the obligation exists only where there is an absence of reasonable excuse. He asked me to put my mind to it. I would have thought that 'reasonable excuse' certainly would include a situation of privilege such as he described or the self-incriminatory aspect, although one has to take into account also that there are plenty of examples in our law going back many years- I am thinking in particular of customs and excise type law- where because of the nature of the situation burdens of proof are put unashamedly on the accused and all sorts of prefatory averments exist. My honourable friend knows the extent of them. They have always been discomforting to me, as I am sure they have been to him; but they have never been challenged. 
As I read the language of clauses 40, 41, 42 and 43, a situation is being created that is consistent with the best principles of natural justice. Of course, if something went wrong- from time to time something goes .wrong in the courts; a magistrate or judge may make a mistake- there is provision for an appeal and for the mistake to be corrected in the final resort by the exercise of the royal prerogative if it becomes sufficiently serious. There is a point that is relevant for me to put to my friend. He mentioned the Administrative Appeals Tribunal measure which is referred to in this Bill. I hope that in the very near future- long before this measure proceeds very far in the Senate- to introduce it into this House, and the honourable member for Moreton and I will probably be  confronting  each other again. While he says he applauds the measure he then goes on to argue why it should not become law. 
-The honourable member always does and he argues why it should not become law. 
I am sorry, but it is true. It has been the experience of the last 2 years. That measure, when it comes in, will seek to give effect to the recommendations of the Bland Committee report on the best way in.which to achieve- dare I use the word- justice in situations of this kind. I hope that it will have the unanimous support of this House. With the inevitable rough passage that this Bill will have from the honourable member's colleagues in the Senate, it is certainly my intention that the other Bill will be in a position to take its place alongside this one at the appropriate time. We will then have the emergence for the first time, when the 2 measures operate together and when the Administrative Appeals Tribunal begins to - 
-No, I am talking about the Bland report. It followed the Kerr report. The recommendations of the Kerr report would have resulted in too much of a romp for lawyers, we thought. I think the honourable member will like the Bland Committee report. There will emerge for the first time in Australia a coherent body of administrative principles. It will not necessarily be administrative law, although it will be legal. It will be a body mainly of administrative principles which will give effect to sure minimum standards of fairness between parties affected by situations such as those referred to. 
-The latter part of what the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  said is the answer to his question, namely, that it is unnecessary. The situation described by the honourable member as it appears in relation to those clauses is part of the public account and is automatically picked up in the Auditor-General's role and the Act under which he operates. It is not necessary to spell it out in this Bill again. It is automatic; it just comes about. The answer is contained in the final question which the honourable member posed, and that is that it is not necessary. 
I go on to put to the honourable member that there is always a grey area in the relationship between a Minister and his department, the relationship between a permanent head and his department and indeed between a Minister and his permanent head. I smile as I say that, having had, I think, 7 permanent heads in the short time that I have been a Minister. The relationship depends on the department, of course, and the statutes for which the department or the Minister is responsible. The  chairman  of the Commission is to stand in relation to the Commission in the same way in which a permanent head stands in relation to his department, and that means that it is his responsibility to see that the department- in the case of the  chairman  it will be the Commission- works properly. The honourable member went on to direct attention to clause 35. I think I have tried to answer his query in relation to that clause because the money goes into Consolidated Revenue, becomes part of the public account and is automatically picked up by the Audit Act. 
The last point raised by the honourable member concerned the committees of both Houses of the Parliament. I did not read into the honourable member's question that that was in any conflict with his main question. Indeed, I believe that he applauds the general principle behind the proposal. If social circumstances require that a Commission of this sort be set up to regulate the industry in the interests of the capital market and the consumer operating in the industry and if that is outside the scope of Parliament in the direct sense, it is then impractical to do it. No one is arguing otherwise. The task then is to make the Commission responsible to the public interest through the elected body, which is the Parliament. The best way- to do that, of course, is to relate it to the Minister, to the GovernorGeneral, to the Parliament as a whole and, indeed, to the committees of the Parliament so that they are all then involved in that situation. In the impossible event, with a Labor Government, of having a perverse Minister - 
I will not repeat it. If for some reason or another there was a malicious Minister or an incompetent Minister - 
I said not in a Labor Government. If there was such a person and it was proper on the evidence for him to take such action and call for a report and he was not doing so, it would be open for a committee of the Parliament and for the Parliament as a whole to do it. So there are adequate safeguards in the legislation for the proper role of Parliament to continue to be played. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 45 to 47- by leave- taken together. 
I wish to reply briefly to the remarks, of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  There is a definition of the words public company' in clause 7. It may have escaped the honourable member's attention. Public statutory corporations, which was the other aspect of the honourable member's remarks, find themselves in different situations but generally they are not trading companies or corporations. 
I will come to that. I am referring to Trans- Australia Airlines, the Commonwealth Trading Bank and bodies of that sort. But operating as they do pursuant to their normal statute, they are invariably required to report to the Parliament and a Minister is always answerable in the Parliament in respect of them. We have just maintained the long established practice, although I believe that a situation could arise in the future in which one might want to depart from the normal practice. We have just maintained the long established practice that, with those safeguards, the mischief does not exist I think I am correct in saying that the various State Acts that set up corporate affairs bureaus similarly exclude the public corporations from their ken. So in that sense we are giving the State rightists some encouragement. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  understands the thinking behind the requirement. We all know that it is necessary to have this requirement if the legislation is to be effective. I think the simple answer- and this may have escaped the attention of the honourable member- is that subclause (2) provides for an exemption- one can call it a power of temporary dispensation, if one likes- which it has been thought desirable to provide in order to avoid drastic action of the sort that perhaps the honourable member had in mind where there is a reasonable explanation for the absence of the copy of a certificate of registration. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 52 to 58- by leave- taken together. 
My contemplation relates to the fact that the whole business of the Commission, of course, is to start from scratch and bring this new system into being. It would be a set fee. The actual amount of the fee would be a matter for the Commission, based upon its experience, to set. I think that is a common enough experience for all of us who have met with authorities of this sort throughout the country. It is an experience which has been well established. 
All I can say to the honourable gentleman is probably yes, because this, requirement is not designed to be a revenue raising measure nor is it designed to be a punitive measure. It is designed to achieve registration. 
When the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  raised this question earlier he spoke also about the definition of securities and possibly the advantage of including interests in it. I think the best answer I can give to the honourable gentleman is that if it had been done that way then, of course, the unit trust would have been as he described it. It would have to go through a stock exchange. It was for that reason that interests were married to the definition in the way- we discussed earlier. It follows, of course, that the unit trust situation does not have to go through stock exchanges. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 59 to 6 1 -by leave-taken together. 
There are at least 2 points raised by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  The first relates to clause 59. He will have observed that from its very language considerable safeguards are built into the clause itself as to how the Commission must go about &lt; making its inquiries, conducting itself and its investigations. I direct his attention, by way of giving some examples, to clause 59 (2) which states: 
The Commission shall not serve a notice on a registered stock exchange under sub-section ( 1 ) unless the Commission has afforded the stock exchange an opportunity to appear at a hearing before the Commission and make submissions and give evidence to the Commission . . . 
In other words, a very substantial attempt is made to spell out at least the rudiments of what we normally regard as a fair go. I take the honourable member's point with regard to clauses 59 and 60 about the possible advantage of providing an appeal to the administrative appeals tribunal. I will not give an assurance at this time but we will certainly keep the matter under consideration. 
The difficulty, as the honourable member for Moreton would appreciate, ls in attempting to achieve a balance. One wants this Commission to be a working body. One wants it obviously to be able to bring about the same improvements in the Australian securities industry as the famous Securities and Exchange Commission of the U.S.A. brought about in the U.S. securities industry over a long period of time. One has, at the same time, to ensure that the rights or corporate bodies and the rights of individuals are properly safeguarded. It is a matter of balance. One does not want to put the Commission into shackles but yet one does not want to offend unnecessarily. I have to say that my first reaction to the honourable member's question is that sufficient safeguards appear in the legislation. I will give the honourable member an assurance that we will certainly look at the matter again, particularly when the administrative appeals tribunal comes into existence. 
I think that many of the expressions of concern that come from honourable members opposite will disappear if the relationship that one assumes will come into being between the Corporations and Exchange Commission and the industry does come into being. Honourable members opposite assume hostility. It seems to be implicit in their comments that there will be some kind of detective or police role and nothing else in the type of role to be played by this Commission. The Government certainly sees it as being something much more than that, and that is why expressions of exhortation, if you like, were put into the legislation to encourage the industry to do this and to do that to protect the investor and not just simply to punish people. I have to say that if one considers the powers of the exchanges as they exist today one sees that they are in the hands of the members of the exchanges. I know that there is a school of thought that says 'Let it be; that is the way it should be'; but I personally do not accept that point of view one little bit. I take another view, and honourable members would have heard me put it often in this place in connection with questions and debates concerning other occupations and certainly other professions. I suppose it can be summed up in very exaggerated form in that old saying of George Bernard Shaw that every profession is a conspiracy against laymen. The occupational groups, although they often say sincerely that they serve the interests of the wider public, because they are occupational groups or professional groups often cannot avoid having their own interests at heart. The danger of it, of course, is not that they abuse their position sometimes; the danger is that they are sometimes seen to be abusing their position, that justice just is not seen to be done. There is disquiet, uncertainty, confusion and concern of the public, often expressed through financial journalists, that they are a bunch of shysters who have to be handled roughly because otherwise they will not put thenhouse in order. It is the appearance of things that creates half the danger. If that is the situation that in part has to be put right, the Commission, as I see it, will have very considerable rapport with the industry. 
I went to some pains earlier in the debate to emphasise that the people who will be put on the 
Commission must be acceptable to the industry. If that rapport can be brought about so that it is a constant exchange of ideas and a constant friendly association, all the fears that are sometimes touched on in debate, I think, fall to the ground. I put it to honourable members that as people sitting here almost in a vacuum, looking out as to what might be the situation in the future, imagination sometime runs riot. But the Government has put considerable thought into the Bill, as I think it testifies, trying to provide safeguards and trying to achieve the right balance. One cannot prescribe everything that might happen in the future. This Bill already contains nearly 300 clauses. It would have 1,000 clauses if we tried to provide for every contingency. We would get into enormous difficulties. Neither can we have a simple Bill of Rights or Ten Commandments type situation leaving, say, commissioners or judges to fill out the legislation because we would not know what they would do. 
I put it to honourable members that a very satisfactory compromise has been reached in this measure. On the question of public interest, of necessity the Commission has a rule making power. I heard it said that it is cumbersome because in some circumstances 44 days could elapse before a rule could be made and actually become effective. That is good in my view because rules are lawmaking processes of a sort. That is not a bad thing; it is a good thing. If we had allowed the Commission to make rules on the spur of the moment we would have had criticism of a different sort. 
However, the rules can be disallowed in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. They can be disallowed on a motion of the House of Representatives. To provide an extra safeguard, if one is looking for safeguards, we have the other regulation making power of the Governor-General which can override the rule making power. So there is ample precaution in the Bill. We have spelt out all the safeguards with, I think, liberal provision for appeal as well. 
The interjection by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  was the key to the matter. At the moment the power is exercised- to use the ugly word power'- by the exchanges. They are not accountable to the public interest at all. I saw a number of honourable gentlemen on the opposite side nodding when I said that occupational groups whether they be trade unions, professional associations or employers' associations, often of necessity are obliged to put thenown interests first rather than the wider social interest. No one can argue against that, and that includes the stock exchanges. We know that they have the power- I am using the ugly, abrasive and naked word that we often run away from. They are not accountable to the public interest at all. That is why they are criticised and that is why, when the abuses and the scandals broke, the whole industry was brought in to disrepute. They were seen to have the power and they were subsequently seen not to be doing much about it. Whether they claim that they were doing the right thing or not doing the right thing, the public saw them as not doing the right thing. Surely it is better to give the power to a body that is publicly accountable; that has to present an annual report to the Parliament; that has a Minister responsible for it who will be answerable to the Parliament for what the body does or does not do; and that has a rule-making power that can be overridden by this Parliament. None of these restrictions is possible with the exchanges as they exist at the moment. Under these provisions, a regulationmaking power will be given to the GovernorGeneral. Again, the Parliament will be able to overrule that. That will be coupled with a generous system of appeals. None of these exists at the moment to soften or cushion the power of the exchanges. If one really wanted to say what was the best that could be done to advance the interest of the Australian security industry in the capital market one would have to say: 'Make it publicly accountable in this way and avoid the criticism that is continually directed at it'. 
The points of view put forward by members of the Opposition probably go as far as anything that has been said today to illustrate the fundamental difference between members of the Liberal and Country parties and members of the Labor Party. I am not trying to be provocative. I see that Opposition members are nodding their heads. After a bad start the debate has gone reasonably well for a little while. I shall try to put to the House the way in which the Government sees the situation. What is envisaged is an extreme power to be exercised and it would be exercised only in an extreme emergency. This matter has been touched on by speakers from both sides of the House, but it is a power that exists at the moment in the private stock exchanges. They can invoke such a power. 
I have to cover some of the ground that I covered at an earlier stage in the debate. We place the public interest extremely high. We believe strongly that it is far too important to leave matters of this sort to a small occupational group which conducts its affairs in secret through a system of committees. Whether it is one committee or 2 committees, no one knows. One cannot find out unless one is on the stock exchange, hears some gossip or rumour, or has read a book on the subject, which expresses only an opinion anyway. I cannot find out what is the situation. There is a corporate veil of a sort beyond which the public interest cannot penetrate at the moment. In placid times, in even times, probably no great harm comes from it, and yet we know that there are times when great harm comes from it. I refer to the mining scandals of a few years ago in this country, but it is not restricted to that type of situation. It goes beyond that. From time to time one reads that trading on a particular security has been stopped. The reason it has been stopped is that to allow it to continue on the market would be to run the risk of people being hurt and injured by losing money. Sometimes they could lose very large sums of money. Sometimes it could have consequential adverse effects on innocent people. 
At the moment the power to say whether the trading on a security should stop or should not stop is given to a group of often anonymous people who are not elected by the public in the same way as we are elected as politicians. Often such people buy seats on the stock exchange and grow up in the ways that are peculiar to the industry. Behind their closed doors they make their decisions which are not open to public scrutiny at all. They are criticised because they do not make a decision when often it is thought proper that they should. We believe that decisions of this sort should be brought into the open. They should be, insofar as it can be done practicably, made subject to public scrutiny. We do not want to create any monstrous bureaucratic nightmare any more than anybody else does. But the power which we seek in this Bill is already in existence. It is in the hands of a hidden, secret bureaucracy which is not accountable to anyone or anything except its own selfinterest. I see that the honourable member for Bradfield is about to ask me a question. 
-What I am putting to the House is that the exercise of this extreme power should be in the public hands. There may be alternative ways of approaching the problem, but I think that this is an adequate and eminently suitable way of doing so. I am not impressed with the argument of the honourable gentleman who said: 'Suppose a situation arose between General Motors and  Dr Cairns,  as  Deputy  Prime Minister, in which, arising out of pique, annoyance or something else, the Government acted in some way?' 
I hold this Parliament, this institution, in far more esteem than that. In fact, if I were to be given a free choice between the captains of industry- they are all good men- and the men of any party which leads our country, whether it be the Liberal Party of Australia, the Australian Country Party or the Australian Labor Party, I would give far more status and esteem to the people who have become Ministers of the Australian Government and who lead the country. I would give far more esteem and status to them because they are more responsible generally. They are elected and they have public opinion behind them all the time. For example, to come back to, with respect, the absurd example that the honourable gentleman gave, if this power were to be exercised it would obviously have to be considered by the full Cabinet. There are 27 Ministers in the present Cabinet. Every one of them is accountable to this Parliament and every one of them is accountable to the people outside through the media. There would be a Cabinet decision, with all the safeguards that go with that, to put up a recommendation to the Executive Council, which would give effect to it. It is obviously a power that would be exercised only in extreme situations, but at least its use is publicly accountable. 

 Mr ENDERBY Of course it would be. The Opposition could take action in respect of it. It could move a censure motion against the Government. 
-Let me put the point that this power would be exercised only in a crisis situation, which the honourable gentleman has himself admitted could arise. 
-Of course, but they are subjective in the present situation. The gentlemen who make the decision now to close down an exchange are subjective. We do not know their names. At least we know the Prime Minister's name. At least he is an elected officer. As the Prime Minister of this country he has to expose himself to public criticism, to be seen for what he is and to justify his actions in public. In this House at question time every day he has to defend and justify himself. Which people in the stock exchanges who have this very power now have to expose themselves and be subjected to those checks and balances to which ministers are subjected continuously? I believe that when decisions of that sort are as important as that they should be made in the public arena. To my way of thinking that is democracy. The alternative of leaving the position as it is- is certainly a negation of democracy. It is to leave a decision of this sort- this power which might never be used- to a group of individuals who are not responsible or accountable to anyone and who could be sick, who could be imbeciles or who could be malicious. They are all things that could happen in respect of a politician, but at least a politician has to stand up in public and be seen. The ultimate sanction is the public's opinion at an election. If the power were abused it could in some circumstances bring down the governmentand rightly so. There may be other alternatives, such as the various measures that the honourable member for Bennelong has suggested, but I put it to honourable members that given the safeguards and given the fact that the power now exists we are only subjecting the exercising of the power to democratic controls. That is all we are doing in writing such a provision into this legislation in this way. 
I turn to the point about when it might be exercised. We all remember- at least some of us do with a little bit of memory aid thrown in- what happened in the 1930s. But it was that not long ago, apart from the mining scandals in this country, when selected applications through the Commission would have been appropriate. Let us never forget that we are thinking not so much of the people who make up the exchanges- the traders, dealers and stockbrokers, although we have to take their interests into account- as of their clients, their customers, the Australian public. That is where the principal concern should lie. How long ago was it when serious writers on economic matters were talking about a return to the great depression years of the 1930s and we were getting reports from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development that the end of capitalism was in sight? All the more recent signs seem to suggest that the economy is picking up a little, and we are all very glad about that, I am sure, but if those signs had gone the other way and had continued going the other way, who would rule out that an emergency situation would not have been called for at some stage in which actions of this sort could have been taken either by private individuals or by a commission and be appropriate in the interests of protecting the public? The point is really quite a simple one. The power exists now and it is exercisable by people who are not accountable to anyone except themselves and their own interests. This will transfer the exercising of that power to properly elected governments. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I rise to take up one point that was made by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I wrote down his words: 'If there is an infringement there must be a sanction'. I accept the admission because the present state of our law provides no such sanction. 
Well, it is relevant to what the honourable member said because implicit in everything honourable members on the other side of the House have said on this subject is a suggestion that in some way we are creating a system that is worse than the present system. The fact remains that the present system gives all the powers about which the honourable member expressed concern to this Commission. The present system has the powers in the hands of unrepresentative, unelected, anonymous people- people who conduct their affairs behind closed doors and who are not accountable to anyone but themselves. If they infringe what is right; if they engage in what is wrong, no one has a sanction. The history of the last few years of the Australian stock exchanges bears that out. The testimony of the Rae Committee bears it out. There is no sanction. How often have we heard in this House and in the Senate suggestions that the closed committee that reflects its own interests does not really do anything to discipline its members who are guilty of all sorts of offences? What the Government seeks to do is to make the conduct of the exchanges accountable to the public interest. They are not accountable to the- public interest at the moment. All manner of safeguards are provided which do not exist now. None of the safeguards that honourable members opposite say should exist, exists now. We are providing in this Bill many safeguards that do not exist now. As the honourable member for Moreton reminds me, they can do that. Of course they can do that. 
-They can stop trading. 
-Of course they can. I remind my good friend- I have to remind him because he has not really read the Bill- that if he examines clause 65 (7) he will see a provision which states: 
Subject to any order of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal - 
The one to which the honourable member for Moreton referred- a decision of the Commission to cancel or suspend the.registration of a registered stock exchange takes effect on the expiration of such day as is specified in the notice given to the stock exchange under sub-section (6), being a day not earlier than 1 4 days after the giving of the notice. 
A lot of safeguards are built in. Sure, I would agree that one could say it should be this way of that way. No safeguards exist at the moment at all. If one looks at the mischief that we are trying to put right one sees an absence of safeguards. If one looks at the remedy the Government is proposing we see plenty of safeguards. That is the simple point, surely. 
May I also say to the honourable gentleman that implicit in the language of clause 65 is the proposition that if the Commission decides to cancel or suspend the registration of a stock exchange- something that can happen already- it has to give reasons for the decision. No such reasons have to be given now under the existing law. Under this clause there will be adequate protection for a registered stock exchange. It will have the right to apply for a review of the decision to the administrative appeals tribunal. The additional good feature- it is quite exciting for those of us who have considered the absence of uniformity in administrative law in this country for so many years- is that with the emergence of the administrative appeals tribunal for the first time Australia will have some regular set of guidelines and a minimum set of standards by which tribunals of this sort must conduct themselves. If they depart from those minimum standards then a remedy will be given to the injured person. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 66 to 8 1- by leave- taken together. 
The 30 days period mentioned by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is a matter of personal opinion. I would have thought that, with the enormous amount of publicity being given to this measure and the publicity that will continue to be given to it, there could hardly be a dealer (stockbroker) in the country who does not know that legislation of this sort is in train, and that the 30-day period would be sufficient. On the other hand I can well understand the honourable member thinking that 60 days might be a more generous period. The Government will watch it very closely. 
Is the honourable gentleman being paid? In reply to the other point made by him, I have to admit that the thought which entered his head and to which he gave expression here today crossed my mind as well. However, of course, it is put that one has to create an objective yet flexible set of qualifications for the licensing procedures. There is no doubt that there are many eminent men in the industry at the moment- I will not use names here- and one would hesitate to say that they should have to subject themselves to the filling in of forms, getting character references and matters of that sort. I imagine that is what is in the honourable member's mind. The matter is under review. At the moment the balance leans heavily towards a fresh start. There is nothing offensive in a person saying he is qualified. The mere fact that a person has carried on his occupation for so many years speaks for itself and it is largely a pro forma matter. I take the honourable member's point. As I said, we are trying to be flexible in this matter and we will keep it under review. 
I take it that the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  is referring to the proclamation of the Bill when it becomes law. I mentioned before, in a different context, the relationship between this Bill and the proposed Bill that I hope to be introducing here very shortly, namely, the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill. The time lag there, if it becomes necessary, can be used to gear the 2 pieces of legislation together so that they will complement each other and achieve the end that the honourable member has in mind. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 82 to 87- by leave- taken together. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)-  I call the Minister- the honourable member for Moreton. I nearly said 'the Minister for Moreton'. 
Dealing with the last point first, the Government is acutely aware of the importance to be attached to the concept that trust accounts should be kept separate; in other words, that an agent's moneys should be kept separate from the moneys of his client, whether the agent be a solicitor, stock-broker or dealer, to go back to a dispute I had earlier with my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  Otherwise there is chaos and a lowering of business morality. There can be little doubt that battles were fought and won several hundred years ago on this principle. We wish to extend such principles into this legislation to cover a field where they do not exist at the moment and where it is widely believed that abuses exist. 
One has to declare principles in legislation, as they exist everywhere else, in the nature of an offence. First the duty is set out, then the breach of the duty and then that an offence exists if there is a breach of the duty. So it is set out. First is the duty that is brought to the attention of the dealer that he shall pay into account all moneys held by him in trust for his client and keep them separate from his own. Surely there can be nothing but applause for that. Sub-clause (5) provides the penalty for a contravention or breach of that duty. This provision is similar to provisions contained in legal practitioners' ordinances and Acts all around Australia, as I remember them. I see nothing wrong with it. There may be occasional cases where a man says, 'I am sorry, I made a mistake', or 'I forgot' or 'I mixed them up, I will not do it again'. In such cases there is first the discretion of a prosecutor, an informant in any system of law, whether to lay a charge, to bring proceedings under this or any other legislation. That is the first safeguard. The second safeguard of course is the discretion of the presiding officer above the prosecutor not to offer evidence. This safeguard exists in any system pf law, including our own. Finally there is the magistrate or the judge beyond that Surely one cannot argue in this day and age that it is not important to remind brokers and dealers that they must keep their funds separate from the funds of their clients. That is all I have to say to the point raised by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard). 
The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  raised a point in relation to clause 90. That clause contains an attempt by the Government to deal with a current abuse, something that in the world of law is taken for granted as being wrong, namely, a pledging of someone's else's securities to raise money on one's own behalf. To lawyers nothing could be more axiomatic. Nothing could be so palpably wrong and wicked and deserving of punishment. It would be wrong for an agent, a solicitor or a stockbroker in possession of securities on behalf of a client with an obligation to do the r'ght thing by him, behind his back and without his knowledge, to pledge them at the agent's bank to raise money to bet on a racehorse, to build a house, to pay his golf fees of whatever the purpose happens to be. That sort of conduct is forbidden in every other area of law. We seek to forbid it here. 
I suppose it comes back once again to the fact that this area of activity, the securities industry, has for a long while been immune from most of the normal legal standards that apply to the rest of the community. That is why the abuses have grown up and the laxity, negligence, carelessness and the occasional piece of wickedness have occurred. I certainly agree with honourable members that one could argue about the form of the words. There are always a dozen different ways to write what one wants to write but the gist of the provision is that the dealer who receives documents of title to securities for safe custody must cause them to be registered and if requested by the client, to deposit them with a bank. Running through the whole scheme of things is that the client must be told of what is done. 
If one reads the Rae Committee report one realises quickly that it became quite a prevalent practice in the securities industry for the client not even to be told that his securities were dealt with by his servant, his agent, in a way that he did not know about. Quite often one would get competing equities in a situation like that. I hate to put my mind to what it would take to resolve such conflicts. This legislation at least seeks to solve the problem and I think does so admirably. Clause 90 gives effect to the view that the pledging by dealers of clients' documents of title should be subject to strict controls. Clearly the dealer should not be permitted to pledge such documents for his own purpose if the client is not indebted to the broker and has not consented. Even if the client is indebted to the dealer there should not be an automatic right to pledge without a specific warning notice. As I have said, in other fields of law the right to pledge is normally subject to such requirements. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2) (a), after 'exchange ', insert 'if the person complies with the prescribed requirements'. 
This is a simple, almost procedural, amendment to enable the making of regulations to regulate the conditions under which a broker can act as a principal in the ordinary course of trading on the stock market. For example, the regulations or the rules could regulate effectively the practices of floor traders which do, on occasions, require special attention and those members of the stock exchange who deal solely or mainly for their own account. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 1 1 5 to 1 1 7- by leave- taken together. 
-A number of points have been made by honourable members in expressing their concern about clause 1 15. 1 think it has to be conceded that this is a matter about which honest people can have a difference of opinion. I am glad to see that my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has walked back into the chamber, because he is familiar with and frequently quotes the sayings of Edmund Burke who described one of the nicest legislative problems a parliament can have as what to legislate about and what not to legislate about or, as Jeremy Bentham once said, what should be on the agenda and what should not be on the agenda. People will take different points of view about this matter. The Government clearly takes the view that there is a need to uplift business morality in this regard. 
It has been said that to date the Government seems to have been following the American model: It is true that we have been influenced very much by the American model, but the American model does not have a counterpart of clause 1 15. The Government has been influenced by the success of the American model. There has been a Commission in America since 1934, and the sorts of abuses that we have seen in our country in recent years have not occurred there to the same degree. The lesson we draw from that in part is that the mere existence of the Commission assists in that regard and perhaps, having a Commission, the Americans do not need this additional rule. It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  point out that in Perth this rule has applied for many years. As I understand it, it was inserted there at the wish of the brokers, in a selfregulatory manner, to protect themselves from the criticism of a conflict of interests situation. 
I can well understand the argument that the Government will rock the boat too much if it disqualifies brokers from being directors of companies. The answer to that surely is this: One should be concerned not only with the brokers as directors of companies but also with the clients or the persons who go to the brokers wanting good advice. There are far more clients than there are brokers. They are the public. As I have said so many times, this legislation is a two-fold measure. It aims to maximise the utility of the capital market and also to protect the consumer, the customer or the investor, who has been sadly defrauded in recent years. One cannot expect the customer to go to a broker seeking good independent advice, not knowing that the broker who is advising him has a number of directorships in the companies which are the subject of the very advice. To my way of thinking, that infringes all the elementary principles which are enshrined in so many other laws but which have not been extended to this area before. They apply to the Secret Commissions Act and laws regulating solicitors or the ethics of the legal profession and so many other professions, but not here. Only in recent years has the industry had the opportunity for abuse that we have seen revealed. That is why the Government says that this rule should apply. One may call it educative. One may say that the Government is leaning heavily towards protecting the consumer, although it is concerned with the role of the broker and the director as well. 
The point was made by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  that the Government does not apply this test to the members of the Commission. That is true. Of course, one cannot compare them. Members of the Commission are not traders. No one goes to them seeking advice. They are not allowed to be directors. If a member became a director of a company he would be disqualified forthwith. 
Yes. They have to reveal any interests, but they are not permitted to be directors. We are talking about a broker being a director. 
-The honourable member suggested that they might be directors. They cannot be. If he looks at clause 26 he will see that they are disqualified if they take a directorship of that sort. Surely that is the answer to the honourable member. They are not traffickers; they are not traders; they are not brokers or dealers in that sense at all. These five gentlemen, when chosen, will be the must esteemed people in that particular branch of Australian industry. They will be required to me by way of a register - 
Clause 26 (2) (c), I think it is. It works to that effect; it certainly does. We impose on such people a very high standard in revealing any interests at all. We impose the same high standard as we would require of a judge or an arbitrator to make known whatever interests he has. But one cannot compare a commissioner with a sharebroker. The roles of the 2 people are quite different. 
-He does it voluntarily; that is right. 
-I move: 
Omit 'carrying on a business of dealing in securities', substitute 'dealing in securities of prescribed corporations'. At the end of the clause, add the following sub-clause: 
This section does not affect any application that the Trade Practices Act 1974 would have apart from this section'. 
The explanation of those amendments is quite simple and probably clear on the face of it. The first amendment is simply designed to ensure that the provision is clearly within constitutional power. The reference to securities in the present clause might otherwise be construed as a reference to securities of corporations that are not prescribed; that is, corporations over which the Australian Parliament does not incontrovertibly have power to legislate. The second amendment is to ensure that the ordinary operation of the Trade Practices Act is not restricted by implication from the provisions of clause 118 (1). That clause is intended to ensure that the Trade Practices Act applies to dealers. It is not in any way intended to limit the operation that that Act would have in the absence of clause 118(1). 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 1 19 to 130- by leave- taken together. 
Let me say,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that the House of Representatives has spent the -whole day so far on this Bill. I have indicated oyer- and over again that the Government will keep the whole measure continually under review and that it is paying close attention to everything that is being put by Opposition spokesmen. At this stage the Government sees no real point in changing the measure but it is indebted to the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  for his suggestions. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 131 to 159- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 160. 
Without prejudice to the effect that this Division has apart from this sub-section, this Division also has the effect it would have if- 
the words 'or a proposed corporation to which that Part would apply' were inserted after the word .'applies' (wherever occurring) in section 161, sub-sections 162 (1), 165 ( 1 ), 1 66 ( 1 ) and 168 ( 1 ) and paragraph 169 (2) (a); 
the words 'or proposed corporations' were inserted in sub-section 162 (4) after the word 'corporations'; 
the words 'or proposed corporation' were inserted in paragraph 168 (9) (c), and in paragraph (c) of the definition of 'prescribed person ' in sub-section 169(1), after the word corporation'; 
after paragraph 162 (13) (e) the following paragraph were inserted:- (ea) a promoter or proposed director of a proposed corporation to which the prospectus relates; '; 
-I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), omit paragraph (d). 
This is an amendment consequential upon the omission of sub-clauses (12)" to (16) of clause 162. 1 should inform honourable members in advance that in the event there of a failure of registration the Bill as it stands at the moment does allow, some would say, a Draconian civil remedy in damages to be given to a person suffering loss not from that cause but from some other cause that would be unrelated. It is thought by the Government to be unnecessary. We believe that the normal criminal law is adequate. The purpose of this amendment is to delete that measure. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 161. 
1 ) A person shall not- 
invite the public to make applications or offers to subscribe for shares in or debentures of a corporation to which Part III applies; or 
offer to the public for subscription shares in or debentures of a corporation to which Part III applies, unless the invitation or offer is issued or made by means of the issue, circulation or distribution of a prospectus in relation to the shares or debentures. 
If an invitation or offer is issued or made in contravention of sub-section ( 1 ), the corporation and every person who is knowingly a party to the issuing of the invitation or the making of the offer are each guilty of an offence and punishable, on conviction- 
in the case of the corporation- by a fine not exceeding $10,000; or 
in the case of any other person- by a fine not exceeding $2,000 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 6 months. 
-I move: 
At the end of the clause, add the following sub-clause: 
This section does not apply to a take-over offer or a take-over invitation. '. 
The reason for this amendment is that separate and special provisions are provided for takeovers in Part X, and honourable members might also note Division 2 of Part VII which deals with a report akin to a prospectus where securities form part of the consideration for a take-over. This amendment is to ensure that it is clear that the special provisions only are to apply to an oflfer or invitation where a take-over is involved. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, greed to. 
Clause 162. 
10) Sub-section ( 1 ) does not apply in relation to the issue, circulation or distribution of a notice, circular or other instrument inviting the making of deposits with or the lending of moneys to, or offering to accept deposits with or loans to, an exempt corporation. 
Where a prospectus has been issued, circulated or distributed in contravention of paragraph (l)(a), any prescribed person is liable, upon demand being made in writing by a person who subscribed for shares or debentures to which the prospectus relates, to pay to that person- 
if the person who so subscribed for shares or debentures has disposed of the shares or debentures and the amount of the consideration paid by him for the shares or debentures exceeds- 
the amount received by him upon their disposal; or 
the value of the shares or debentures as at the time of the disposal, whichever is the greater- the amount of the excess; or 
if the person who so subscribed for shares or debentures has not disposed of the shares or debentures and the amount of the consideration paid by him for the shares or debentures exceeds the value of the shares or debentures as at the time when the demand was made- the amount of the excess. 
The following persons are prescribed persons for the purposes of sub-section (12):- 
the corporation to which the prospectus relates; 
any corporation that was, at the time when the prospectus was issued, circulated or distributed, a holding corporation of the corporation to which the prospectus relates; 
a person who, at the time when the prospectus was issued, circulated or distributed, was a director of the corporation to which the prospectus relates; 
a person who, with his authority or at his instigation, is named in the prospectus as such a director or as having agreed to become such a director either immediately or after an interval of time; 
a promoter of the corporation to which the prospectus relates; 
an underwriter (other than a sub-underwriter) of the issue of the shares or debentures described in the prospectus. 
14) Where a prospectus in relation to shares in or debentures of a corporation has been issued, circulated or distributed in contravention of paragraph ( 1 ) (a), the total liability under sub-section ( 12) of an underwriter of the issue of the shares or debentures shall not exceed the sum of the amounts that were payable by the public for the shares or debentures underwritten by him or, if some only of those shares or debentures were subscribed for by the public, the sum of the amounts that would have been payable by the public if all those shares or debentures had been subscribed for by the public. 
Nothing in this section affects any liability that a person may incur under any other law, but any amount that a person would, but for this sub-section, be liable to pay to another person under this section in respect of any shares or debentures shall be reduced by any other amount previously paid to or recovered by the other person under this section or under any other law (whether the other amount was paid by or recovered from the first-mentioned person or a third person) in respect of the same shares or debentures. 
16) An action to enforce a liability under sub-section (12) shall not be instituted more than 1 year after the date on which the shares or debentures were allotted to the plaintiff. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (10), omit all words after 'distribution', substitute ' of a prospectus in relation to an exempt corporation '. 
Omit sub-clauses ( 12) to ( 16), inclusive. 
These are the amendments I referred to earlier. The words omitted are unnecessary in view of the definition of 'prospectus'. This definition includes a notice, circular or other instrument so that the use of the word 'prospectus' does not change the meaning of the sub-clause but shortens and simplifies it. The second amendment to clause 162 is, as I informed honourable members, designed to eliminate a civil sanction for failure to register a prospectus. We accept that the criminal law is adequate. After careful reconsideration the Government has decided to remove the unusually broad civil sanction originally provided by clause 162 ( 12). The Government considers it will be sufficient for the Bill to rely on the criminal sanction provided in clause 162 (2) to enforce registration. 
Perhaps I could just say in reply to the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  that we always listen very closely to what he has to say. The purpose of registration, of course, is to try to ensure that false documents in the nature of prospectuses are not circulated to induce people to part with their money as so often happens. That is the mischief we are trying to correct. But, as the honourable member pointed out, one cannot cater for everything. It might well happen that shares are issued and such a registration is cancelled. For what it is worth, my own view would be that the ordinary civil remedies would apply. The criminal sanctions, of course, might apply. It would depend on the facts. But the person in that situation would have his civil remedies as he has now. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 163 agreed to. 
Clause 164. 
Where an invitation or offer has been issued or made in contravention of sub-section ( 1 ), sub-sections 1 62 ( 1 2 ) to (16), inclusive, have effect as if- 
any document by which the invitation or offer was issued or made were a prospectus issued, circulated or distributed in contravention of sub-section 162 ( 1 ); 
any persons issuing the invitation or making the offer (but no other persons) were prescribed persons for the purposes of sub-section 162 (12) by virtue of being named in the document as directors of the corporation concerned; and 
any persons making offers in pursuance of the invitation or accepting the offer were subscribers for the shares or debentures. 
-I move: 
Omit sub-clause (5). 
This amendment is completely consequential on the previous amendment which sought to omit sub-clauses ( 12) to (16) of clause 162. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 165 agreed to. 
Clause 166. 
Where, in pursuance of a prospectus referred to in subsection ( 1 ), a corporation to which Part III applies has accepted from any person any money as a deposit or loan, the corporation shall, within 2 months after the acceptance of the money, issue to that person a document that- 
acknowledges or evidences, or constitutes an acknowledgement of, the indebtedness of the corporation in respect of that deposit or loan; and 
complies with the other requirements of this section. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 3 ), omit ' 2 months ', substitute ' 1 month '. 
The reason for this amendment is that clause 166 (1) provides that a prospectus in relation to debentures must state that the corporation will issue a document evidencing its indebtedness within one month from the acceptance of money as a deposit or loan in response to the prospectus. This amendment is to ensure that the corporation is legally obliged to issue such a document within one month. 
I move: 
At the end of the clause, add the following sub-clause: - "(14) This section applies in relation to a prospectus of which a copy has not been registered by the Commission in like manner as it applies in relation to a prospectus a copy of which has been so registered, but, for the purposes of the application of this section in relation to a prospectus by virtue of this sub-section, this section has effect as if a copy of the prospectus had been registered by the Commission at the time when the prospectus was first issued, circulated or distributed, as the case may be. ". 
This amendment is consequential on the previous amendments I have moved which have been accepted by the Committee. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 172 to 174- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 175. 
5 ) If the conditions referred to in paragraphs ( 1 ) ( a) and (b) have not been satisfied on the expiration of 4 months after the date of registration of a copy of the prospectus, the corporation shall forthwith repay without interest all money received from applicants for shares or debentures and, if any such money is not so repaid within 5 months after the issue of the prospectus, the corporation and the directors of the corporation are jointly and severally liable to repay that money with interest at the rate of5 per centum per annum from the expiration of the period of5 months, but a director is not so liable if he proves that the default in the repayment of the money was not due to any default or negligence on his part. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (5), omit 'issue', substitute 'date of registration of a copy'. 
The reason for the amendment is that the date of registration of a prospectus will be a date that is certain and easily ascertainable. The date of issue might not always be incontestable and so ascertainable. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 176 agreed to. 
Clause 177. 
Where a borrowing corporation is required by subsection ( 1 ) to make provision in any debentures or in a trust deed relating to those debentures for the appointment of a trustee corporation as trustee for the holders of the debentures, the borrowing corporation shall not allot any of those debentures until- 
the appointment has been made; 
the trustee corporation has consented in writing to act as trustee; and 
a certified copy of the document that is required by sub-section 166(3) to be issued by the borrowing corporation, a copy of the trust deed or of the debentures and a notice in accordance with the prescribed form stating that the trustee corporation has been appointed and has consented to act as trustee have been lodged with the Commission. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 4 ), omit 'allot ', substitute ' issue '. 
The amendment will ensure that a corporation may re-issue debentures that have been redeemed. The use of the word 'allot', which is defined, would exclude such a re-issue. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 178 agreed to. 
Clause 179. 
Where a corporation to which Part III applies invites applications or offers from the public to subscribe for or purchase debentures of the corporation or offers debentures of the corporation to the public for subscription, the relevant trust deed or, if there is no relevant trust deed, the debentures shall be deemed to contain covenants by the borrowing corporation to the effect- 
that the borrowing corporations will use its best endeavours to carry on and conduct its business in a proper and efficient manner; 
I move: 
That after the word 'subscription', in clause 179 insert the words 'or purchase '. 
The reason for the insertion of the words is that they will ensure that the implied covenants provided by clause 179 will apply in a case where a corporation re-issues to the public debentures that have been redeemed. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 180 to 186- by leave- taken together. 
-I move: 
That after the words 'not to be' in clause 187, insert 'an invitation to the public to make applications or offers to subscribe for or purchase debentures of the corporation or an offer of debentures of the corporation to the public for subscription or purchase and not to be '. 
The reason for this amendment is that it is necessary to ensure that invitations or offers by exempt corporations are excluded from the operation of all provisions in Part VII including those provisions where the word 'prospectus ' is not appearing. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is always at his best on matters of this sort. I am advised that the clause is in the normal form, although that is no excuse for it. It has been copied from many Acts which were enacted during the life of the Government which the honourable member supported. I do not mean that in any offensive way. 
No, of course not. I should tell the honourable member that I share his views on the right to search and to seize in a person's home. I know that in the Australian Capital Territory, for example, it is one of my hopes that soon we will have the magistrates independent of the Attorney-General's Department and given the security of tenure of judges. We certainly will give the closest consideration to the honourable member's suggestion. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 264 to 267- by leave- taken together. 
I listened with considerable care to the remarks of honourable members. This legislation, I appreciate, comes as somewhat of a shock to traditional Australian thinking on this subject. I should tell honourable members that during January I spent 3 weeks in Europe. I was amazed by how far European countries with a similar system of economy to our own have gone in this direction. There are good social reasons for it. I do not have to cite the example of Sweden. Of course, honourable members opposite would immediately dismiss Sweden as having a Labor type government, but Sweden has gone a long way in this regard and these measures are accepted generally in the community as very desirable. They are consistent with worker representation on boards. The same situation applies in the Federal Republic of Germany where I found enormous interest in this sort of reform. Oddly enough the West German Government also is of the social democratic type. I was more surprised to find that in France, which has a conservative government- some would say a right wing government- again enormous changes were taking place in company legislation in a similar direction. When I asked why this was being done I received different answers but they boiled down to this: Increasingly it is believed that decisions made in the board rooms of big companies are far too important today to be left only to the directors of the big companies, that the public interest is also involved. In Australia we are very remote and cut off in many ways from the mainstream of what is happening in a progressive way overseas and which is widely accepted by all sections of the population. 
I quoted Burke to my good friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  a little while ago. He might allow me the indulgence of quoting from John Maynard Keynes- not exactly a person of my political persuasion- who was a supporter of the British Liberal Party when he was alive. He had this to say on matters of this sort: 
It is not true that individuals possess a prescriptive ' natural liberty' in their. economic activities. There is no 'compact' conferring perpetual rights on those who have or on those who acquire. The world is not so governed from above that private and social interest always coincide. It is not so managed here below that in practice they coincide. It is not a correct deduction from the principles of economics that enlightened self-interest always operates in the public interest. Nor is it true that self-interest generally is enlightened; more often individuals acting separately to promote their own ends are too ignorant or too weak to attain even these. Experience does not show that individuals, when they make up a social unit, are always less clear-sighted than when they act separately. 
I have that with me because it is a subject in which I am interested. It seems to me to be the underlying recognition of that principle that is motivating these trends overseas that I personally think are desirable. I shall give honourable members 3 examples of which I have been aware that have occurred recently in Australia. Honourable members will recall the sudden decision of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd to dismiss 5000 or 6000 people before Christmas, in October or November. That has enormous ramifications on the Australian economy not only for the 5000 or 6000 people who are suddenly dumped out the window as industrial fodder to be looked after, with their wives and children, by somebody else, but also for businessmen who deal with the company, the component manufacturing side of the industry, and involves another 20 000 to 30 000 people. The directors of GM-H would probably argue that if is of no concern to anyone but themselves. I would differ. I think it is of enormous concern. It is not good enough any longer for large corporations of that sort suddenly to say, 'Here we go. Bang', and make a decision. Some better means has to be worked out. 
The cases of Cambridge Credit Ltd and the Mainline Corporation are other examples. One could go on giving a lot of examples. There must be better ways of operating. The thinking behind this provision is, as was said by Keynes- the man who probably did more to preserve and to maintain the free enterprise system in the world than any other single person- it is far too important in this day and age with the complexity of modern economics to leave decisions of that sort simply to an anonymous group of people. I made the point before that stock exchanges have all the powers that this Commission will have but they are not accountable; the Commission is because it serves the public interest. The exchanges tend to serve their own interest. I appreciate that there is a philosophical and ideological approach to the question, but I commend it to honourable members. 
I take the point of the honourable member for Moreton about privacy. That is a fundamental principle in our system, something to which we give enormous importance but there is surely a great difference between the privacy of an individual and the privacy of the board room. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 268 to 278- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 279. 
Except as provided by this Act and subject to the jurisdiction of the High Court under paragraph 75 (v) of the Constitution, a decision of the Commission shall not be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed, or called in quesuon, or be subject to prohibition, mandamus, ceniorari or injunction, in any court on any account whatever. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: - 279. Except as provided by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1 975 and subject to the jurisdiction of the High Court under paragraph 75 (v) of the Constitution, a decision of the Commission in respect of which an application may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review shall not be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed, or called in question, or be subject to prohibition, mandamus, certiorari or injunction, in any court on any account whatever. '. 
The effect of that amendment is to keep the prerogative writs there where no appeal has been made for a question going to the Tribunal. For all other circumstances the prerogative writs now apply. They did not under the original proposal. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 280 to 282- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 283. 
Subject to this section, the Commission may make rules, not inconsistent with this Act or the regulations, for or in relation to- 
any matter in respect of which the Commission is permitted by sub-section 59 (3) to make rules; or 
any matter in respect of which the Governor-General may make regulations. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause ( 1 ), substitute the following sub-clause: 
Subject to this section, the Commission may make rules, not inconsistent with this Act or the regulations, for or in relation to- 
a ) any matter in respect of which the Commission is permitted by sub-section 59 (3) to make rules; or 
any matter in respect of which the Governor-General may make regulations, and, except where the context otherwise requires, this Act (other than this section and sub-section 284 ( 1 ) ) has effect as if a reference to regulations included a reference to rules of the Commission.'. 
The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that apart from express limitations the Commission's scope for rule making will be, as to subject matter, as broad as the regulation making power of the Governor-General, which is spelled out in the Bill. 
I move: 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The Interdepartmental Committee on structural changes in industry comprised representatives of the Departments of Secondary Industry, Labour, Social Security, Prime Minister and Cabinet and Treasury. The Department of Primary Industry also participated in the Committee 's work. 
The Committee first met on 20 March 1973 and it presented its report to the Government on 30 January 1974. 
The Committee was set up to advise the Government on the proper measures needed to facilitate desirable structural changes in the Australian economy, particularly in the areas of adjustment assistance, training and relocation, and social security and welfare. Its recommendations have been incorporated in the Government's long-term scheme of structural adjustment assistance which was announced by the Prime Minister on 23 April 1 974. 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Government's election pledge related to petroleum products. It was said that where price availability and accessibility are as good, the Commonwealth will make purchases of petroleum from Australian owned and controlled companies. Insofar as the Department of Manufacturing Industry is concerned, the opportunity has not arisen for purchases to be made under the terms of this pledge. During the period December 1 972 to July 1 974 inclusive, the only orders placed by the Contract Board of the Depanment have been for items such as furnace fuel oil, automotive diesel oil and automotive lubricants and greases. Of the six main orders valued at about $ 14.5m Australian owned companies did not tender for supplies valued at $ 1 1 .3m and were awarded about 30 per cent of the balance of the requirements. 
On 17 December 1972 this principle for petroleum purchases was extended to all commodities when the Prime Minister directed that Australian Government contracts should be awarded to an Australian-owned company in cases where Australian and overseas-owned firms submit tenders which meet specifications and are equal in respect to price and availability. In the period December 1972 to July 1974 contracts to a value of $ 16.3m have been awarded by the Contract Board in accordance with this policy. 
With regard to the total value of orders placed by the Department of Manufacturing Industry over this period, 83 per cent were awarded to Australian manufacturers or suppliers. Those orders were valued at about $288m. 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A sub-committee was formed on 29 May 1 973 to examine certain short term problems in the industry. This subcommittee's main task was to bring together all the available statistical material on the industry in order to create benchmarks for future studies. 
In March-April 1974 the Department of Secondary Industry (now Manufacturing Industry) in association with the Footwear Industry Advisory Panel conducted a survey of the footwear industry. The results of this survey and other information on the industry were published in the Department of Manufacturing Industry Bulletin No. 10 "The Australian Footwear Industry- A Review ', on 4 October 1 974. 
Recent meetings of the Footwear Industry Advisory Panel have been concerned mainly with the current levels of activity within the industry. At the meeting of 5 June 1974 the Panel passed a resolution that 'the Minister for Secondary Industry support, as a matter of urgency, an approach by the Footwear Industry for a reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority for holding action pending a proper review of the industry and its needs'. 
My response to that resolution was that prompt consideration would be given to a request for a reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority when the industry had provided the necessary data to demonstrate that imports were having adisruptive effect on the industry. The industry provided the Department of Manufacturing Industry with detailed information on its current and prospective levels of activity in late August. A reference was sent to the Temporary Assistance Authority by the Prime Minister on 1 1 September 1974. 
On 18 October the Prime Minister announced that the Government had accepted in principle the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on footwear and that imports of most types of footwear in the twelve months ended 30 September 1975 would be at a level 20 per cent higher than the level of imports in 1972-73. This would mean that imports in the first quota year would be at a level about 30 per cent less than in 1 973-74. 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the reply to Question No. 1862 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, pages 4841 to 4847) by my colleague the Special Minister of State. 
I move: 
That the amendment recommended by His Excellency the Administrator be agreed to. 
The message received from His Excellency the Administrator was sent to the House of Representatives on the advice of the Government. It invokes a procedure under section 58 of the Constitution that has been used only on rare occasions. The section provides, amongst other things, that when a proposed law passed by both Houses of the Parliament is presented to the Governor-General for the Queen's assent he may return the proposed law to the House from which it originated and may transmit therewith any amendment that he may recommend and the House may deal with the recommendations. This procedure affords a method of correcting minor errors that may be found in a Bill after it has been passed by both Houses and before it has been assented to. The Administrator's message on this occasion deals with such a minor error that has been discovered in the Privy Council (Appeals from the High Court) Bill 1975. The error consists of the omission of the indefinite article 'a' before the word 'court' in clause 3 of the Bill. In spite of the minor nature of the error the Government considers that, in view of the constitutional significance of the Bill, it would be better if it were to express the intention exactly. I therefore recommend the amendment to the Committee. I should say in conclusion that a typographical error occurred in the process through the House. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish an Office of Australian Ombudsman for the purpose of investigating and reporting on complaints. The Bill will require the Ombudsman to investigate complaints received by him against administrative actions of departments and authorities established by this Parliament or under Territory legislation. There will be 2 Deputy Ombudsmen who will have a special role in relation to the Territories, one in the Australian Capital Territory and the other in the Northern Territory. The creation and appointment of an Australian Ombudsman is an important element of the policy of this Government. The policy speech in November 1972 and again in 1974 included reference to this intention. For my own part, this policy has received my strongest support from the very first days of the Government coming into office. As member for the Australian Capital Territory and also as Minister for the Capital Territory, I was concerned to see that citizens were given the opportunity to have their complaints against the actions of departments and authorities properly and fully investigated. 
The existing methods of checking deficiencies in administration are many and varied. These methods include supervision by tribunals, review by the courts, a Minister's responsibility to Parliament, examination of officials by select committees and, of course, the individual member's watchdog role  on behalf of his constituents. These checks on administration may be effective in their own spheres but they are subject to important defects. Only some administrative decisions are subject to review by tribunals. In many cases members of the public are disadvantaged by the fact that procedures are unfamiliar. Often legal representation is required for the aggrieved person to present his case in an effective way. An appeal on the merits may not be available and review by the ordinary courts involves technicality, expense and delay. 
The duties of a Minister of the Crown are such that he cannot effectively exercise responsibility for all the many activities of departments under his administration. For these reasons the existing remedies need to be supplemented by an institution for investigating complaints which is independent and thorough, which can go behind the screen hiding the department or authority from the citizen. The Ombudsman will be able to go behind that screen and report on what he finds. The Ombudsman will not be confined to making a report. He will be able to exercise a personal influence with departments and authorities, and he will have the status to do that. In the grievance field he can act as a concilliator, and he can make suggestions to departments in an informal way. Over a period he can become an influence for systematic administrative reform.  His  work will provide a record of situations where grievances are felt which are not taken care of by existing remedies. In one sense the Ombudsman will be providing a free legal aid service. A person who complains to the Ombudsman will not find himself in the adversary situation which is encountered in litigation. 
The establishment of the Australian Ombudsman will further involve Parliament in its historic role as a committee of grievances. One of the duties of the Ombudsman will be to report regularly to Parliament on the carrying out of his functions and on all significant matters arising out of his inquiries. The concept of Ombudsman is of Scandinavian origin and first appeared in an English-speaking country with a Westminsterstyle Parliament in New Zealand in 1962 and in Great Britain in 1967. All the Australian States, except Tasmania, have passed Acts establishing an Ombudsman. There are Ombudsman in several of the Canadian Provinces. The services of the Ombudsman have been in demand in those countries where the institution has been established and the Ombudsman's work has obviously satisfied a felt need. Experience has shown that in most cases complaints against authorities turn out on investigation to have been unjustified but the complainants are happy with the result of the investigation. In most cases the officers concerned are shown to have done their work conscientiously, and so the Ombudsman improves their standing with members of the public. The fact that a citizen can complain with the knowledge that his complaint will be dealt with by an independent and a respected official is itself an incentive for good administration. 
In Australia a Committee on Administrative Discretions, chaired by  Sir Henry  Bland, recommended to the Government the appointment of an Australian Ombudsman. The Committee's interim report was tabled in the Parliament in May 1973 and its final report in October 1973. To a large extent this Bill follows the recommendations of the Bland Committee. Other recommendations made by that Committee will be implemented in another Bill I will be introducing for the establishment of an administrative appeals tribunal. Other work had earlier been undertaken by another distinguished Committee headed by  Sir John  Ken. Its report was tabled in the Parliament in October 1 97 1 . 
Separate provision for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, which do not have Ombudsmen of their own as do the States, has been made in the Bill. In each case a Deputy Ombudsman will be appointed and will have all the powers of the Australian Ombudsman except that of reporting to the Parliament. This provision will ensure that there is an accessible and responsible official available to carry the work load in the Territories but the overall responsibility of the Australian Ombudsman will be preserved in order to avoid duplication or conflict. I emphasise that the Ombudsman is to be accessible throughout Australia. Facilities will be provided in each State for complaints to be lodged with the Ombudsman, who will be personally involved in the investigation of complaints of citizens from all parts of Australia. 
I turn now to a general description of the Ombudsman Bill. The Bill establishes an Australian Ombudsman and 2 Deputy Australian Ombudsmen whose functions are to investigate complaints made under the Act and also to investigate of their own motion actions by departments or prescribed authorities that relate to a matter of administration. Prescribed authorities are authorities or bodies established for a public purpose by a law of Australia other than those declared by the regulation to be authorities or bodies to which the Act does not apply. Courts and similar bodies are excluded. The Ombudsman is not authorised to investigate action taken by a Minister or action taken by a department or authority in matters connected with employment in the Australian Public Service or employment in a prescribed authority. My colleague the Minister for Defence will be introducing a Bill to establish a Defence Force Ombudsman and the Australian Ombudsman is not authorised to investigate matters within the jurisdiction of the Defence Force Ombudsman. The Ombudsman will have a discretion not to investigate certain complaints. For example, he may decline to investigate a matter if the complaint is in the opinion of the Ombudsman frivolous or vexatious, or if the complainant does not have a sufficient interest in the subject matter of the complaint, or if the complainant has the right to a review by a court or tribunal. 
The Act provides that a complaint will be made to the Ombudsman in writing. The 
Ombudsman or his staff will personally investigate the complaint and will inform the responsible Minister and the principal officer of the department or authority that its action is to be investigated. The investigation will be in private and in such manner as the Ombudsman thinks fit. The Ombudsman will have the right to obtain, information a*nd to call for files. Only in certain denned areas will a department or prescribed authority be able to refuse production of documents or the giving of information. Such a refusal must be backed by the certificate of a Minister furnished to the Ombudsman certifying that the disclosure of information concerning a specified matter would be contrary to the public interest because it would prejudice the security, defence or international relations of Australia, relations between the Australian Government and the government of a State, or that it would involve the disclosure of deliberations or decisions of the Cabinet or of a committee of the Cabinet, or that it would involve the disclosure of deliberations of the Administrator's Council of the Northern Territory. A person is not excused from answering questions or furnishing documents on the grounds that he might be incriminated but his answer to an incriminating question is not admissible in evidence against him. 
The Ombudsman is empowered to enter premises for the purpose of his investigations, and even in the case of prohibited places under special Acts, he may obtain entry with the permission of the Minister. Following his investigation the Ombudsman will report in the first instance to the department or the authority concerned, and in his report he may make suggestions and recommendations. Normally this report should have the effect of remedying the matter complained of. In every case the Ombudsman must furnish a copy of his report to the responsible Minister. Where the department or authority fails to take appropriate action, then the Ombudsman can report to the Prime Minister and also to the Parliament. This special report is in addition to the periodic reports which he will be giving to Parliament. Reports to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory are provided for in relation to matters arising in those regions. 
The Ombudsman is given security of tenure. He holds office until he attains the age of 65, and he may be removed only on an address praying for his removal being presented to the GovernorGeneral by each House of Parliament in the same session. The Act provides for the appointment of a person to act as Ombudsman during a vacancy but a person appointed to act as Ombudsman shall not continue to act after 12 months from the occurrence of the vacancy. The Ombudsman and his staff are obliged to observe secrecy with regard to confidential information which is obtained in the course of their investigations. 
It is intended that the administrative actions of all government authorities that deal with the public should be subject to investigation by the Ombudsman. Only authorities which undertake mainly commercial or advisory activities will be excluded by regulation. The Bill is the result of the deliberations of the distinguished members of the Bland Committee and of further discussions with people experienced in this area. The practising Ombudsmen overseas and in Australia were also consulted. The Government believes it is an important step towards the goal of improving the enjoyment of civil liberties by Australian citizens and towards better administration in Australia. I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Donald  Cameron) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish in Australia an Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The function of the Tribunal will be to review decisions by Ministers and officials given under powers conferred by legislation of this Parliament or by ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. An inevitable development of modern government has been the vesting of extensive discretionary powers in Ministers and officials in matters that affect a wide spectrum of business and personal life. Unfortunately, this development has not been accompanied by a parallel development of comprehensive machinery to provide for an independent review of the way these discretions are exercised. While there has been established a considerable number of review tribunals of one kind or another under the legislation of this Parliament, these have not developed in any coordinated fashion. 
The intention of the present Bill is to establish a single independent tribunal with the purpose of dealing with appeals against administrative decisions on as wide a basis as possible. The Bill would establish the Tribunal and provide for its membership, powers and procedures. The Tribunal thus established would be a standing body that can be given jurisdiction as new legislation creating administrative discretions is introduced. At the same time, the Government proposes to review discretionary powers under existing legislation to determine whether there should be appeals to the Tribunal against decisions in the exercise of those discretions, and whether existing provisions for appeal would be brought within the framework of the new Tribunal. 
I turn to the detailed provisions of the RillPart II of the Bill provides for the establishment of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the appointment of the members of the Tribunal and the qualifications of members. The Tribunal will consist of a  President,  a number of presidential members and a number of other members. The  President  and the presidential members of the Tribunal will have the status of judges. The Bill accords them this status because it is considered by the Government to be essential to the successful operation of the Tribunal that it should enjoy a high standing in the Australian community. It will be called upon to review decisions of Ministers and of the most senior officials of Government. In the words of the Franks Committee on Tribunals and Enquiries, the Tribunal from the United Kingdom, the Tribunal is not to be an or.dinary court, but neither is it to be an appendage of Government departments. The Tribunal is to be regarded as machinery provided by Parliament for adjudication rather than as part of the machinery of departmental administration. Nothing less than a tribunal of full judicial status would be satisfactory for these purposes. 
Furthermore, it is expected that the new Tribunal will acquire the jurisdiction of some existing tribunals which are chaired by or to which it is expected that judges will be appointed. It is also expected that it will take over some of the review functions now vested in State Supreme Courts, the Australian Industrial Court and the High Court of Australia. 
It is not clear at this stage how many presidential members will be required for the work of the Tribunal and accordingly the Bill does not propose any limit. It may be expected, however, that there would be a sufficient work load in Canberra, Sydney and Melbourne for there to be a full-time presidential member in each of those cities. The Bill provides that judges of courts established by the Parliament or of the courts of the States may be appointed to be presidential members. It is therefore possible for such a judge to be appointed to sit from time to time as a presidential member of the Tribunal in those places where the work load of the Tribunal would not be sufficient to justify a full-time appointment, or to provide assistance in coping with periods of heavy demand on the services of the Tribunal. 
The qualifications for the members of the Tribunal other than the presidential members are set out in sub-clause 7 (2). The other members of the Tribunal will bring to the Tribunal professional and technical expertise in various fields. These other members may be appointed as fulltime members or as part-time members. In some areas of the Tribunal's operation it is expected that there will be a sufficient work load to justify the appointment of some full-time members. In other cases, the need for persons of particular skills will arise only occasionally and this can best be met by the appointment of part-time members. 
The provisions of clause 14 of the Bill are intended to give the members of the Tribunal a proper independence from the executive Government. A member of the Tribunal may be removed from office only upon an address by each House of the Parliament. Part III of the Bill provides for the organisation of the Tribunal. The Tribunal will sit in Divisions. The Bill provides specifically for three Divisions, namely, a General Administrative Division, a Medical Appeals Division, and a Valuation and Compensation Division. It permits other divisions to be established by regulation. The 3 Divisions set out in the Bill correspond broadly with what is expected to be the 3 main areas of operation of the Tribunal. The non-presidential members of the Tribunal will be assigned to Divisions in accordance with their particular fields of expert knowledge. 
Ordinarily, the Tribunal will be comprised of a  President  and 2 non-presidential members for the hearing of a matter. If the parties so agree, the Tribunal may be constituted by a presidential member sitting alone. Where a question of law arises during the proceedings of the Tribunal, the question is to be decided by the presidential member. Clause 25 empowers the Tribunal to sit at any place in Australia or in an external Territory other than Papua New Guinea. Part IV of the Bill sets out the powers of the Tribunal and the procedure to be followed by the Tribunal in reviewing decisions. The jurisdiction to be exercised by the Tribunal will be established by other legislation. 
My Department has been authorised by Cabinet to consult with other departments on the basis of the detailed recommendations in the Bland Committee report, to determine what matters should be the subject of appeals to the Tribunal. To avoid the congestion of the legislative program that would be caused by bringing a large number of separate Bills before the Parliament to amend other Acts to confer jurisdiction on the Tribunal, clause 26 proposes that regulations may be made under other Acts to provide for appeals to the Tribunal. Regulations so made, will, of course, be subject to disallowance of either House of Parliament in the ordinary way, so that Parliament will retain control over the matters that are to go before the Tribunal. 
Where the Tribunal has jurisdiction to hear an appeal it will be empowered to affirm, modify or reverse the decision appealed from, to substitute a fresh decision of its own, or to send the matter back to the original decision-maker for reconsideration in the light in any directions or recommendations made by the Tribunal. The procedure before the Tribunal is to be informal. The Tribunal is not to be bound by the rules of evidence, but is empowered to inform itself in any way in which it sees fit. If in the circumstances of a particular case the Tribunal thinks it desirable to do so it will be able to have enquiries made by its own staff. Provision has been made for the Tribunal to call a preliminary conference of the parties to a matter before it in cases where the olding of such a conference may bring about a settlement of the matter. 
One of the difficulties that a person wishing to challenge a decision now faces is that of obtaining reasons for the decision. Although it is often the practice for reasons to be given for a decision, there is no general requirement that a decisionmaker must give reasons for his decision. Clause 28 of the BUI therefore provides that a person who wishes to appeal to the Tribunal is entitled to obtain reasons for the decision from which he wishes to appeal. Special provision is made for a case where the giving of reasons for a decision would necessarily involve the disclosure of confidential material. In such a case, the statement of reasons is required to be lodged with the Tribunal itself. I am examining the recommendations of the Bland Committee that there should be a general requirement for reasons to be given for decisions made under powers conferred by statute. 
Where there is an appeal to the Tribunal, the department concerned is required to make available to the Tribunal aU relevant material. Special provision is made in clause 36 of the Bill to safeguard confidential material. Provision is made for an appeal from the Tribunal on a question of law to the proposed Superior Court of Australia and for the Tribunal to refer a question of law to the Superior Court. Pending the establishment of the Superior Court, this jurisdiction Will be vested in the Australian Industrial Court. 
With the establishment of the new Tribunal, the policy of the Government is that ad hoc appeal tribunals will not be established under future legislation except where special circumstances make it desirable that there should be special tribunals. Cabinet has also directed that future proposals for special tribunals and for substantial departures from the standard procedures before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal are to be referred to the AttorneyGeneral's Department for comment and discussion before the drafting of legislation. The establishment of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Will be a significant milestone in the development in the administrative law of this country. It will provide an opportunity to built up a significant body of administrative law and practice of general application, as well as providing the machinery to ensure that persons are dealt with fairly and properly in their relationships with government. I commend the BUI to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lloyd)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This BUI and a complementary BUI, the Customs BUI, which will be introduced shortly, are designed to give effect to the Government's decision to adopt the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Anti-dumping Code. The opportunity Will also be taken to strengthen the Government's powers to protect Australian industry against the practices of dumping and subsidisation of imported goods, in the light of experience gained with the existing Act, the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act. That Act wil be repealed with the coming into operation of this Bill. Australia, as a member of the GATT, is bound by the Agreement's anti-dumping and countervailing duty provisions, contained in Article VI of  the  GATT. 
In 1967 the GATT issued the text of an agreement, known in short as the Anti-dumping Code, which interpreted the provisions of Article VI of the GATT on anti-dumping duties and laid down rules for their application so as to ensure the greatest possible uniformity in the practices of acceding governments. A comparison of the Code with the present Australian legislation and practices in relation to anti-dumping showed that there were no substantial differences between them. The report of the InterDepartmental Committee on the feasibility of Australia acceding to the GATT Anti-dumping Code was tabled in the Senate on 4 December 1973, and concluded that accession to the Code would not inhibit Australia in taking effective measures to counter what it considers to be actionable dumping. 
The Code is the accepted international system to counter dumping practices. Most of Australia's major trading partners are Code signatories, and our adoption of the Code would minimise resistance by those countries to our conducting dumping inquiries within their territories. By acceding to the Code we will become a member of the Committee on Anti-Dumping Practices. This Committee meets annually for the purpose of affording parties to the Code the opportunity of consulting on matters relating to the administration of their anti-dumping systems in the light of the provisions of the Code and the furtherance of its objectives. One significant point of difference between the provisions of the present Act and the Bill arises out of considerations other than those determined by the decision to adopt the Anti-dumping Code. In 1965 the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board referred to the unwarranted costs, delays and inconvenience arising out of the requirement for a prior inquiry and report by the Board before the Minister could impose dumping duties. 
In 1973 the Government sought a report from  Sir John  Crawford and  Mr Rattigan  on this issue. The report which was released on 9 January 1974 confirmed the view that the Minister should be empowered to impose a dumping duty with- ' out prior inquiry and report by the Industries Assistance Commission. The report did recommend, however, that decisions of the Minister should be appealable to the Commission. The provisions of the Bill reflect these recommendations. I commend this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lloyd)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is complementary to the Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Bill which I have just introduced into the House. Its purpose is to provide a restriction on the time during which the Customs may hold cash securities taken for antidumping protection. It is administrative practice to take such securities in situations after there is prima facie evidence of dumping, but before a final decision is made, if the Australian industry is likely to suffer considerable injury in the meantime, in the absence of protection. The authority for this practice is contained in the Customs Act. The Customs Act provides that securities must be disposed of within 3 years, but the GATT Antidumping Code requires securities taken in antidumping cases to be determined within 3 months. This amendment of the Customs Act will give effect to this requirement. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lloyd)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the amendment be made. 
The Bill the subject of the request passed all stages in this House during the last session and subsequently was adjourned at the second reading stage in the Senate. During the interval between the passage of the Bill by this House and its consideration in the Senate, as honourable members know, changes in economic circumstances occurred. The adjournment measure was adopted to permit the Government to consider fresh representations received from several quarters concerned with probable economic effects of the Bill had it passed into law. Honourable members will recall that the Refrigeration Compressors Bounty Bill 1974 sought to provide a bounty of $5 per unit on sealed unit compressors of 1.5 kilowatts or less manufactured and sold for incorporation in domestic refrigeration appliances. The Bill, as introduced and originally passed by this House with the support of the Opposition, was designed to aid the rationalisation of the compressor manufacturing industry as advocated by the then Tariff Board in its report on domestic appliances, heating and cooling equipment, etc., of 10 October 1973. The Bill gave effect to this recommendation by the Tariff Board. Due to the Bill's overall purpose, its enactment would have resulted in the exclusion from bounty of a quantity of locally made compressors. As a result of the changed circumstances, the Government has reviewed its earlier decision, having in mind the economic problems currently facing Australian manufacturers of these compressors and the representations made. The amendments provide bounty assistance of $5 per unit on compressors of 1.5 kilowatts or less produced for use as refrigeration components in the manufacture of other goods that are subsequently used in Australia, subject to maximum expenditure of $3.25m per annum. Additionally, the amendments seek to ensure certain compliance with section 5 1 placitum (hi) of the Constitution. I commend the amendments to the Committee. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is assumed that the report referred to is the Report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations on 'Human Rights and Scientific and Technological Developments; uses of electronics which may affect the rights of the person and the limits which should be placed on such uses in a democratic society', dated 31 January 1974, and presented to the Thirtieth Session of the Commission on Human Rights. 
The Report as such does not require action by the Australian Government. The Report is a study of problems in the area of human rights and personal privacy arising from the development of computerised personal data systems. It suggests that certain points be taken into account in the drafting of international standards relating to the protection of the rights of the individual against threats arising from the use of computerised personal data systems. The Government will take the Report into account in its examination of what measures should be taken in Australia to safeguard personal privacy against intrusions resulting from computerised personal data systems. 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States  (Question No. 64) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Legislation has been prepared, and will shortly be introduced, to establish an Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See answers to Question No. 216 and Question No. 733. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) See answer to Question No. 733. 
The answer tothe right honourable member's question is as follows: 
This apparently is a reference to a speech entitled Official Secrecy, Open Government and Making Democracy Democratic' delivered by the present Minister for Labor and Immigration on 1 7 September 1 972. 
An interdepartmental committee was set up to report to the Government on Freedom of Information legislation. The report of the Committee has been completed and was tabled in both Houses of the Parliament on5 December 1 974. Public comment has been invited. The report and public comments on it will be considered shortly by the Government. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) See answer to Question No. 733. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) These questions were overtaken by the appointment, on 21 August 1974, of  Mr Justice  Hope of the Supreme Court of New South Wales to conduct an inquiry under the Royal Commissions Act into the intelligence and security services. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The recommendations in the Report will be taken into account by the Government in its examination of what measures should be taken to protect individual privacy against intrusion by the use of computerised personal data banks. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581 (House of Representatives Hansard, 4 December 1974, page 4590). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) See answer to Question No. 733. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Legal Aid Review Committee that my predecessor appointed on 25 July 1973 has submitted a first report that was tabled in the Parliament on 3 April 1 974. The Committee has made a comprehensive examination of legal aid and has sought submissions from and has had discussions with legal professional bodies and welfare organisations throughout Australia. Members of the Committee took part in discussions with the constituent bodies of the Law Council and my predecessor in Canberra late last year. The  Chairman  of the Committee has informed me that he expects the Committee's second report to be completed within the next few weeks. 
There has been the closest liaison between the  Chairman  of the Legal Aid Review Committee and Professor Sackville. The appointment of Professor Sackville to be a member of the Committee on 2 September 1974 will further facilitate liaison. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The right honourable member's attention is drawn to the reply of the Prime Minister to a similar question (No. 97) asked by the right honourable member. The reply of the Prime Minister is published at page 625 of Hansard of 24 July 1974. The information there furnished is equally applicable in reply to the right honourable member's question. 
The answer to the right honourable member 's question is as follows: . 
and (2) The letter was printed and paid for by a nongovernment source. Approximately 300 of the letters were sent in government envelopes from the office of the Minister for Customs and Excise. 
and (4) It was distributed to interested conservationists who had previously written to the Minister for Customs and Excise. It was also provided in bulk form to one conservation group for private distribution by them. 
Since the printing and distribution was done largely by a non-government source this information is not available. 
Yes. The authority for this statement was the record of the former Liberal/Country Party Government which during its time of office placed virtually no restriction on the export of millions of kangaroo skins. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The practice in the Australian Capital Territory for some years has been not to arrest a person in possession of marijuana unless the quantity in his possession indicates that he is trafficking in marijuana and that, where there are doubts, the person is not to be arrested but the matter is to be reported. I see no reason to alter the practice. No instructions have been issued although I understand that the former Attorney-General discussed the matter briefly with the Commissioner, Australian Capital Territory Police Force. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Customs and Excise does not administer any programs which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants for a specific purpose. There are no statutory authorities under the Minister's control. 
-(18)See(l). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer given to Question No. 1862 by my colleague the Special Minister of State on 5 December 1974 (Hansard pp. 4841-4847). 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As honourable members are aware, the drafting of Bills for the Parliament is carried out by the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. The Office was established in 1970 by our predecessors in government, and honourable members on both sides of the House agreed then that the establishment of the Office was a worthwhile move. Experience has confirmed the success of this move. However it is very doubtful whether the Office would have been able to meet the demands made on it in relation to Bills if a further step in streamlining the process of drafting Bills had not been taken. That further step was taken by this Government in 1 973 when the Office of Parliamentary Counsel was, by administrative arrangement, relieved of the responsibility for drafting ordinances and regulations and of the work associated with the printing of laws. Much relates to the laws of the Australian Capital Territory. It was transferred to a specially created division in the Attorney-General's Department. .These arrangements have been an undoubted success and it is now proposed that what has hitherto rested upon an administrative basis only should be confirmed legislatively, and this is one of the purposes of the Bill. Clause 3 provides for the statement of functions of the Office as at present expressed in the Act to be brought into line with the factual position by confining them to Bill drafting and closely related work. 
Honourable members will note that the functions of the Office, both under the existing Act and as proposed to be restated in the Bill, are not confined to drafting for the Government. This Government has continued the practice of previous governments of authorising the Office of Parliamentary Counsel to provide drafting services for private members, on a confidential basis when so desired by the member concerned, where this is possible having regard to commitments for drafting required by the Government. In fact a great deal of assistance has been given by the Office to Opposition members, as well as Government members, particularly in the drafting of amendments to Bills. Unfortunately, it is not possible on all occasions to authorise the Office to draft Bills for private members, particularly where they amount to major legislative projects. However, the legislative confirmation of the present functions of the Office will help to ensure that the Office will be able to continue to give the maximum of help to private members. 
The Government also proposes to make a change in the ministerial responsibility for the Office. Although the First Parliamentary Counsel and his staff have always maintained, and will continue to maintain, close professional collaboration with the Attorney-General and officers of his Department, it is felt that, because the work of the Office is concerned with the overall legislative requirements of governments, the ministerial responsibility for the Office should lie with the Prime Minister. 
It is proposed to make the necessary change in the Administrative Arrangements Order, but, because of some references in the Parliamentary Counsel Act to the Attorney-General, the Act will also need to be consequently amended. Clause 2 of the Bill therefore provides for those references to be replaced by references to 'the Minister', who, by virtue of the change to be made in the Administrative Arrangements, will be the Prime Minister. 
The Bill also provides for a number of purely formal and consequential amendments, including a consequential amendment of the Legislative Drafting Insititute Act. I commend the Bill to honurable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Howard)  adjourned. 
I oppose the motion and I think I do so- I hope I do so- with the support of most honourable members. This is, indeed, a very controversial Bill. It is a Bill that strikes deeply into matters on which honourable members have strong feelings. This has been evidenced by the history of the Bill and I remind honourable members of the time that has been devoted to it already. Without going into the history of divorce law reform in this country, one can say that it began in its present form as early as December 1971- that is a long, long while ago- when  Senator Murphy,  as he then was, moved in the Senate for the establishment of a standing committee to consider this problem. This led to advertisements being inserted in national papers which led to an enormous public debate throughout the whole of the country. We are now living through this public debate and have lived through it for some little time. The Senate committee concerned had very detailed discussions. However, I remind honourable members that this did not reduce the differences of opinion in the Senate that exist on a subject of this kind because people feel so strongly about their opinions that in the long run, the issue will not be resolved by a standing or select committee. That committee presented its report which led to proper, fine and magnificent debate in the Senate- perhaps one of the finest debates the Senate has had. It was even acknowledged as such by people who took a view different from the majority view in the Senate. The Bill then came to us from the Senate in its present form. 
It is now April 1975. The Bill was introduced into our House in December 1 974, 4 months ago. 
The public debate has continued. There has been no gag and no restriction on debate by the Government or by any private member. Some 64 speakers have spoken on the subject covering every possible point of view. This afternoon we saw the situation reached when, without any motion that the question be put, the last  speaker  sat down and the question was quite properly put. 1 put it to honourable members that surely the stage has now been reached for them to go into a Committee of the Whole where the entire question can be resolved in the traditional way in which it is resolved in the House of Representatives. I put it to honourable members that the delay that has taken place because of the nature of the subject- it is a matter on which people form very strong views- indicates that there will not be any solution reached in a select committee. Even though not intended by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  in effect it will be reason for delay. There are a lot of people watching us at this moment and watching us very closely to see whether we make a mockery of trying to solve this very difficult legal and social problem. The only way to solve this difficult legal and social problem is in a Committee of the Whole of this House of Representatives. That is the stage we have reached. 
I put it to honourable members, knowing that there is a free vote on this Bill, that we should not demean ourselves by just passing the buckpassing the legislation on to some other group of people who, in themselves, will be divided. They are not matters of technique that divide honourable members nor matters concerning a particular form of machinery. In many ways, they are matters of basic philosophy. In the long run- we cannot run away from it- honourable members of this House have to grasp the nettle. This House, all 127 members- or at least of all those who care to vote- must vote on the issue because it really means that every man must stand up and be counted. For some this will be difficult but at the same time the problem will not be resolved by sending it to a committee where it will be buried and we will all be made to look not only silly but also cowards. 
I move: 
In the definition of 'Commissioner' omit 'the appointment of officers or the engagement of employees, the receipt, holding or payment of moneys or the acquisition, holding or disposal of other property', substitute 'the acquisition, holding or disposal of property '. 
Perhaps to assist my friend, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  I should explain to him that the reason for this amendment is that the Government has decided, as I think he would know, that the staff of the Commissioner is to be employed under the Public Service Act, and it will not be necessary for separate financial arrangements to be maintained by the Commissioner. However, the Commissioner will retain his status as an independent statutory authority. It is consistent with the Government's view that there should be a rational system in Government agencies of this sort from the point of view of employment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 7- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 8. 
This Part does not apply to distinctions, exclusions, restrictions or preferences between Australian citizens and persons who are not Australian citizens. 
The Government is happy to accept this amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 9 and 10- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 11. 
It is unlawful for a person- 
to refuse to allow another person access to or use of any place or vehicle that members of the public are entitled or allowed to enter or use, or to refuse to allow another person access to or use of any such place or vehicle except on less favourable terms or conditions than those upon or subject to which he would otherwise allow access to or use of that place or vehicle; 
to refuse to allow another person use of any facilities in any such place or vehicle that are available to members of the public, or to refuse to allow another person use of any such facilities except on less favourable terms or conditions than those upon or subject to which he would otherwise allow use of those facilities; or 
to require another person to leave or cease to use any such place or vehicle or any such facilities, by reason of the race, colour or national or ethnic origin of that other person or of any relative or associate of that other person. 
I move: 
In paragraph (a) after ' are ', insert 'or a section of the public is,'. 
In paragraph (b) alter' public', insert 'or to a section of the public'. 
I believe that the amendments are self explanatory. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)Does  the Attorney-General desire to move both amendments together? 
If it suits the convenience of the Committee. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  and the Committee. Perhaps I should speak to them first before the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  who has indicated that he wishes to speak to them, is heard. It is proposed that these provisions should apply to a section of the public as well as to members of the public. The amendments will bring the clause into line in this respect with other provisions of the Bill- for example, clause 13. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), paragraph (d), omit 'a second person the right ', substitute ' to permit a second person '. 
In my opinion this is a simple amendment. As the Committee will appreciate, it seeks to omit the words 'a second person the right' from paragraph (d) of sub-clause (1) and to substitute the words 'to permit a second person'. The purpose of the amendment is to bring these provisions to a section of the public as well as to members of the public. Acceptance of the amendment will bring the clause into line with the other aspects I have mentioned. The Government also considers it to be a drafting improvement. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 13 and 14- by leave- taken together. 
The Government is indebted to the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  the Opposition's representative on this matter, because he has drawn attention to a feature of the Bill. Clause 15 in its present form relates only to an employer. It does not direct attention to associations. That is implicit in the amendment proposed by the Opposition. However the Government, having taken the Opposition's point and being grateful for it, does not think it goes quite far enough. We will be opposing the amendment put forward by the Opposition only for that reason- a technical reason, so to speak. As soon as that issue is resolved, if it is resolved in the negative, I shall move an amendment which will extend the provisions of the clause so that they will include employees in the trade union situation and also employers. It is for that reason and no other reason that we are opposing the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (2), insert the following sub-clause: '(2a) It is unlawful for an organisation of employers or employees, or a person acting or purporting to act on behalf of such an organisation, to prevent, or to seek to prevent, another person from offering for employment or from continuing in employment by reason of the race, colour or national or ethnic origin of that other person or of any relative or associate of that other person. '. 
The amendment seeks to insert a new sub-clause (2a), which is what the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  sought to do. The Government, having opposed his amendment, moves this one in its place. The Government takes the point offered by the Opposition but adds employer organisations to employee organisations. 
Amendment agree to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 16 agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 16A. 
The Government regrets that it cannot accept this amendment. It is not that we do not accept some of the thinking that is behind the point of view put by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  It is quite correct to draw attention to the fact that clause 16 and proposed new clause 16A are related to clause 29. As honourable members would see, the 
Government proposes to amend clause 29, which deals with the criminal side and links up with Part II in which clause 16 is to be found. The Government will liberalise, if I may use that word, clause 29 by seeking to delete paragraph (b) of it. So, in that regard it can be said that we are taking a step towards the point of view of the Opposition; but we oppose the amendment now being put forward. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 17 (Liability of principals and employers). 
The Government accepts the spirit of the contribution made by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  One is never happy with vicarious liability in its pure form. Yet social circumstances have always required that there be vicarious liability. I suppose the concept was created by the common law itself and by the judges. Certainly it is nothing new in our statutes. I give the honourable member my assurance that the matter will be kept under consideration. However, at this stage it is considered to be a desirable part of this Bill. Such a concept finds a place in the New Zealand and United Kingdom legislation. Of course that by itself would not be persuasive but on the information that comes to me it is not being abused and it is serving a very useful place in that other type of legislation, given the nature of the problem. We oppose the proposition put by the honourable member for Bennelong. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 18. 
A reference in this Fart to the doing of an act by reason of the race, colour or national or ethnic origin of a person includes a reference to the doing of an act for two or more reasons that include the first-mentioned reason, whether or not that reason is the dominant reason for the doing of the act. 
Implicit in both the contribution from the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  and the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  has been the difficulty of the task which is posed by this Racial Discrimination Bill. There are different points of view. For example, in South Australia the State Government has taken a different view from the view taken in this Bill. It has not written in the reference to the dominant purpose. This has given a great deal of difficulty and trouble. I appreciate that one could argue, as I think one of the 2 honourable gentlemen argued, that it is better to be safe and to let a few fish escape, so to speak, than to be heavy-handed. That is a very legitimate and proper point of view. However, the magnitude of the problem in the eyes of the Government warrants this form of words. It is a matter which has given us alot of concern. It flashed through my mind that one could write in the word 'substantial'. We rejected that. The matter will be kept under review in the Senate. Certainly at this stage the Government holds the view that the magnitude of the mischief, if I can put it that way, which requires attention justifies the language in the Bill which is before the House. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 19 agreed to. 
Clause 20. 
The functions of the Commissioner are- 
to inquire into alleged infringements of Part II, and endeavour to effect a settlement of the matters alleged to constitute those infringements, in accordance with section 21; 
where the Commissioner is unable so to effect a settlement of a matter, to institute a proceeding in a court in accordance with sub-section 25 (1) in relation to the matter; 
to promote an understanding and acceptance of, and compliance with, this Act; and 
to develop, conduct and foster research and educational programs and other programs for the purpose of - 
combating racial discrimination and prejudices that lead to racial discrimination; 
promoting understanding, tolerance and friendship among racial and ethnic groups; and 
propagating the purposes and principles of the Convention. 
Briefly, in addition to what my colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  had to say I point out that the Government takes the view that the legislation is necessary in this form. It is modelled largely on the United Kingdom legislation which has been effective. It is not unknown for conciliators also to have power to commence proceedings following conciliation. As honourable members will be aware, in the same Committee stage we will be introducing a number of amendments to give legal assistance to people who come before the conciliation compulsory conference process as well as those who face an examination before a judge- if it gets to that stage- and even in subsequent proceedings. 
May I also put this reason to honourable members: It seems to the Government unjust, it seems wrong, it seems oppressive to expect a person in the community who is probably a very inarticulate person, often a very vulnerable person, to pick up the cudgels against a more articulate and more powerful person even though the more powerful person may have broken some rule of law and even though the weaker person is assisted with legal aid. It seems to me that there is a lot to be said for allowing the commissioner to take the proceedings in situations like this. I search my mind and find that it is done in South Australia in a different context, in the world of consumer protection. The prices controller there very often brings actions against large corporations because it is deemed proper and appropriate that he should do so rather than leave it to the little man to chance his arm in the unfamiliar and sometimes fearsome surroundings of a court of law. It is for those reasons that we put the measure forward. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 21.  (1)Where- 
a complaint is made to the Commissioner that a person has done an act that is unlawful by reason of a provision of Part II; or 
it appears to the Commissioner that a person has done an act that is unlawful by reason of a provision of Part II, the Commissioner shall, subject to sub-section (2), inquire into the act and endeavour to effect a settlement of the matter to which the act relates. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  cited the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  We all love the honourable member for Moreton but he was in one of his periods of full flight on the occasion on which he referred to Star Chamber methods. 
He always speaks very well. The Government is quite happy to accept the responsible amendment put forward by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  which requires that any complaint be made in writing. We think that that is a very slight improvement. The honourable member apologised if the Government thought that the amendment was pettifogging. It is not that. My ministerial colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  asks what happens if a man cannot write. Some people cannot write. That would not prevent the complaint being written for him on instructions by some other person who could write. The other criticism is quite absurd. It is inconceivable in this conciliatory process- what is envisaged here and is spelt out in great particularity is a conciliation process- that a person could come before the compulsory conference and not be told who was the complainant. I record it now that the Government does not intend that it should be so. 
-One can put everything in a Bill if one wants to. One can put everything in every Bill and the pages would stretch from here to eternity. 
-I will not bother to answer the honourable member. The purposes of the inquiry are narrowly defined. It is not a roving Star Chamber situation at all. One has only to read the language of the Bill to see that. It is interesting that the honourablemember for Bennelong did not bother to waste his time on the points raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
We are happy to oblige in the interests of being co-operative and conciliatory, which is the spirit of that clause. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1) omit 'an officer or employee', substitute 'a member of the staff'. 
This is a consequential amendment flowing from the decision that the Commissioner's staff is to be employed under the Public Service Act. I spoke to it when I dealt with the first amendment I moved. I think it was accepted by my friend opposite. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The Government accepts the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: After sub-clause (2), insert the following new sub-clause: '(2a) A person who has been given a direction under subsection ( 1) to attend at a conference is entitled to be paid by Australia a reasonable sum for the expenses of his attendance at the conference. '. 
This amendment will allow a person directed to attend a compulsory conference to be reimbursed reasonable expenses incurred, those expenses commonly being called conduct money. The Government thinks that this is appropriate. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following sub-clause: '(4) In any proceeding instituted under section 25, no evidence shall be given and no statements shall be made with respect to anything said or done at a conference held in pursuance of a direction given under this section. '. 
This relates to subsequent proceedings that might well take place. The Government believes that it is desirable in the interests of avoiding any possible oppression, although it seems unlikely. This amendment puts the matter less at risk. The Government also believes that it will assist in the conciliation process. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 23. 
1 ) Where a prescribed authority has reason to believe that a person is capable of giving evidence or producing documents relating to a matter that is the subject of an inquiry under section 2 1, the prescribed authority may, if the Commissioner so requests, by notice in writing served on tha t person, require that person to appear before the prescribed authority at a time and place specified in the notice and give any such evidence, either orally or in writing, and produce any such documents. 
A person served with a notice under this section is entitled to be paid out of the moneys of the Commissioner a reasonable sum for the expenses of his attendance before the prescribed authority. 
3 ) The prescribed authority may- 
require a person appearing before the prescribed authority to give evidence either to take an oath or make an affirmation; and 
administer an oath or affirmation to a person so appearing before the prescribed authority. 
The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by a person for the purposes of this section is an oath or affirmation that the answers he will give to the questions asked him will be true. 
Where a person appears before a prescribed authority in accordance with a notice served under this section, either the prescribed authority or the Commissioner may put to the person such questions relating to the matter that is the subject of the inquiry under section 21 as the prescribed authority thinks proper. 
A person served with a notice under this section to appear before a prescribed authority shall not, without reasonable excuse- 
fail to appear as required by the notice; or 
fail to appear and report himself from day to day unless excused, or released from further attendance, by the prescribed authority. 
Penalty: $1,000. 
7) A person appearing before a prescribed authority shall not- 
when required in pursuance of sub-section (3) either to take an oath or make an affirmation- refuse or fail without reasonable excuse to comply with the requirement; 
refuse or fail without reasonable excuse to answer a question that he is required to answer by the prescribed authority; 
refuse or fail without reasonable excuse to produce a document that he was required to produce by a notice under this section served on him; or 
knowingly give evidence that is false or misleading in a material particular. 
Penalty: $1,000 
A person is not excused from answering a question or producing a document in pursuance of this section on the ground that the answer to the question or the document may tend to incriminate him, but any such answer or document is not admissible in evidence against him in any proceeding other than a proceeding for an offence against sub-section (7). 
A prescribed authority has, in the exercise of his powers under this Act, the same protection and immunity as a Justice of the High Court. 
A person who has been served with a notice under thus section to appear before a prescribed authority has the same protection, and is, in addition to the penalties provided by this section, subject to the same liabilities, as a witness in proceedings in the High Court. 
1 1 ) In this section, 'prescribed authority' means a person who holds office as a Judge of the Superior Court of Australia or of the Australian Industrial Court. 
I wish to move all the Government amendments to clause 23. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  -Is leave granted to move the amendments together? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), omit 'a prescribed authority has reason to believe', substitute 'the Commissioner satisfies a prescribed authority'. 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), omit 'if the Commissioner so requests, '. 
In sub-clause (2), omit 'out of the moneys of the Commissioner', substitute 'by Australia'. 
After sub-clause (4), insert the following sub-clause: '(4a) Where a person appears before a prescribed authority in accordance with a notice served under this section, the person and the Commissioner are each entitled to be represented by a barrister or solicitor of the High Court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory. '. 
In sub-clause (S), omit 'either the prescribed authority or the Commissioner', substitute 'the prescribed authority, the Commissioner or a person representing the Commissioner'. 
In sub-clause (6), omit '$ 1 ,000', substitute '$250 '. 
On the question of the appropriateness of clause 23 generally, it certainly is not intended to be over-legalistic. One appreciates quite fully the dangers of that. But one also appreciates quite fully the consequences of not having in the Bill some means for the Commissioner to acquire information in certain circumstances. The experience in the United Kingdom has been that people who come before compulsory conferences are quite prepared, indeed determined, to thumb their noses at them and just refuse to say anything at all. They are firm in their bigotry, so to speak, and just will not co-operate or conciliate in any way. As honourable members know, the Commissioner is to have an educative role as well as a conciliatory role and other roles. It certainly has been considered desirable to have the examination provision for the purpose of acquiring facts. The examination will be carried out by a supreme court judge or a judge with the status of a supreme court judge. If the Superior Court Bill is ever enacted, it will be carried out by someone from that Court. In the meantime it will be carried out by a judge of the Australian Industrial Court. 
The amendments I have moved seek to meet some of the criticisms the Opposition has put forward. Indeed, I should say generally that today we are accepting many of the Opposition's amendments. If the Opposition had not put them forward, the Government would have put them forward either in the same form or in a slightly different form. In fact, the first set of draft amendments prepared for consideration in this Committee took in some of the amendments the Opposition has now proposed. So we have not pursued ours, as we are accepting the Opposition's. I shall draw attention to some that we have put in. We oppose the Opposition's move to delete the clause because we consider the clause appropriate, although we have, for example, changed the first line of clause 23. Lawyers present will appreciate the distinction. The original form contained the words 'where a prescribed authority has reason to believe'. That is a pretty easy test to satisfy. We have strengthened that test quite a lot. We seek to insert the words: 'where the Commissioner satisfies a prescribed authority'. That puts a much stronger burden on the Commissioner. It is a well understood formula. The other amendments are consequential on it. Some of them are rather technical. We propose to reduce the fine from $1,000 to $250. We shall provide that the person appearing before the judge is entitled to legal representation and we also shall provide that the Government will pay the bill. We do not think we can go very much further than that, given the nature of the problem that exists. 
This is the first time that an Australian government has ever sought to tackle racial discrimination in Australia with a law of this sort. Other countries have been doing it for years, with mixed success. We have studied the experiments and efforts that those other countries have made. It is a difficult problem. The South Australian Government has legislation on the subject. When one seeks to enact a law for the whole of Australia one has to realise that there are different parts of Australia- different in the sense that racial discrimination might be found to be more extensive in some parts than in others. I think one of the Opposition speakers mentioned that in Australia generally racial discrimination, where it occurred, was often inadvertent. I have no doubt that in many cases that is correct. But I would dispute that it is always correct. 
I appreciate that the honourable member did not. I should like to think that in those cases where it occurs in, say, a city such as Canberra it is more often than not inadvertent, but in other places in Australia- I need not mention them- it often is not inadvertent; it goes way beyond being inadvertent. I see my friends nodding in agreement with me. When one enacts a law of this sort one hopes that it might not be used very much in the Australian Capital Territory and that it will just lie on the statute book. In those parts of Australia where it is needed it will be used, one hopes with good effect. I hope I have given some answer to the points put forward by honourable members. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 24 agreed to. 
Clause 25. 
1 ) Where, after inquiry into an act done by a person, the Commissioner is unable to effect a settlement in accordance with sub-section 21 (1), the Commissioner may, subject to sub-section (7), institute a proceeding in relation to the act by way of civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction for any one or more of the remedies specified in section 26. 
The parties to a proceeding instituted under subsection ( 1 ) are- 
the Commissioner; 
any person who is joined by the court as a party to the proceeding in accordance with sub-section (3 ); and 
the person who did the act to which the proceeding relates. 
Where an application to be joined as a party to a proceeding instituted under sub-section ( 1 ) is made to the court by a person who- 
before the proceeding was instituted, made a complaint to the Commissioner in relation to the act to which the proceeding relates; 
claims to be aggrieved by the act to which the proceeding relates; 
claims to have an interest in the proceeding; or 
) is a member of an organisation or association of persons that is claimed by him to have an interest in the proceeding, the court may, in its discretion, join the person as a party to the proceeding. 
A person aggrieved by an act that he considers to have been unlawful by reason of a provision of Part II may, subject to subsection (7), institute a proceeding in relation to the act by way of civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction for any one or more of the remedies specified in section 26. 
) If the Commissioner is of the opinion that the continuance of a proceeding instituted under sub-section (4) will affect adversely the performance of the functions of the Commissioner under sub-section 2 1 ( 1 ), he may apply to the court for a stay of that proceeding. 
Where an application is made under sub-section (5), if the court is satisfied that the continuance of the proceeding will adversely affect the performance of the functions of the Commissioner under sub-section 2 1 ( 1 ), it shall stay the proceeding but, if not so satisfied, it shall refuse the application. 
A proceeding may not be instituted under this section in respect of the doing of an act (other than an act that is unlawful by virtue of section 16) in relation to- 
accommodation in a dwelling-house or flat, being accommodation shared or to be shared, in whole or in part, with the person who did the act or a person on whose behalf the act was done or with a relative of either of those persons; or 
employment, or an application for employment, in a dwelling-house or flat occupied by the person who did the act or a person on whose behalf the act was done or by a relative of either of those persons. 
-The Government regrets that it cannot accept the amendment. The question of civil proceedings is, as the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  would know, a pretty basic right that is enjoyed by any citizen. If one were to take it away lightly one would indeed be criticised. Yet in a way that is what the honourable member suggests that we do- deny the person that right while the conciliation proceedings take place. The Government takes quite a different view, and it does not think that it is any harder. We declare the wrong, if one may put it that way, and give the right to the citizen aggrieved, who might be an Aboriginal in Queensland or Western Australia or any part of Australia, to bring proceedings. That person is not bound by the conciliation proceedings. The Commissioner has a discretion, of course, and it is relevant to point out to the honourable gentleman that if one looks at clause 25, sub-clauses (5) and (6), one will see that if the aggrieved person seeks to exercise his right by going straight to a court the Commissioner can move in that court for a stay. It is then a matter for the court to decide whether or not the conciliation process has paramountcy over the right to damages or an injunction which the person might be seeking. The Government opposes the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 26. 
Where any damages are awarded against the defendant in accordance with paragraph (l)(d) in respect of loss suffered by, or loss of dignity by, humiliation to, or injury to the feelings of, a person aggrieved by the relevant act- 
in the case where that person instituted the proceeding or, if the proceeding was instituted by the Commissioner, that person is a party to the proceedingthe damages are payable by the defendant to that person; or 
in any other case- the damages are payable by the defendant to the Commissioner, who shall forthwith pay them to that person. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment for the reasons I have given. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 27 agreed to. 
Clause 28. 
A person shall not, with intent to promote hostility or illwill against, or to bring into contempt or ridicule, persons included in a group of persons in Australia by reason of the race, colour or national or ethnic origin of the persons included in that group- 
publish or distribute written matter, 
b ) broadcast words by means of radio or television; or 
utter words in any public place, or within the hearing of persons in any public place, or at any meeting to which the public are invited or have access, being written matter that promotes, or words that promote, ideas based on- 
the alleged superiority of persons of a particular race, colour or national or ethnic origin over persons of a different race, colour or national or ethnic origin; or 
hatred of persons of a particular race, colour or national or ethnic origin. 
Penalty: $5,000. 

 - Mr Speaker, I move the following amendment to clause 28: 
In paragraph (c), after 'access', insert 'or any section of the public is invited or has access. 
I think the amendment is self-explanatory. Speaking in opposition to the move to delete the clause, though, we fully appreciate what the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  says about the requirements and obligations of a free society. There is nothing detrimental to that aim in this clause. One does not have to go to Nazi Germany to see recent examples that perhaps would be in flagrant breach of a clause such as clause 28. Even in the general election campaign of May 1974 there were examples that could well have constituted a breach against a clause of that sort. Some of the examples I saw would have done so, in my view, but the honourable member for Bennelong may not have seen the examples I saw. What happened was not directed at me but was directed at a person who was once a member of this House. However, be that as it may. 
Another aspect that should be borne in mind is that this Bill gives effect to an international convention and, indeed, largely draws its legislative capacity and authority from that convention. The penalty provisions, such as clause 28, are required by that convention. Even if it were not so, I would argue that a clause such as clause 28 is very desirable because the criminal law does not only provide a penalty; it expresses a sense of community outrage at certain types of behaviour. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Question put- 
That clause 28, as amended, be agreed to. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
A person shall not incite the doing of an act that is unlawful by reason of a provision of Part II. 
Penalty: $5,000.'. 
The amendment is self-explanatory. I spoke to it when addressing the Committee on one of the earlier occasions. It seeks to delete sub-clause (b) and to restate the clause. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( I ) omit 'an officer or employee', substitute 'a member of the staff'. 
This amendment is consequential upon other matters which I have dealt with before, principally that the staff of the Commissioner be employed under the terms of the Public Service Act. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The Government opposes the amendments moved by the Opposition and does so for the reasons that I have given earlier. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 31 to 33- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 34. 
1 ) The Commissioner shall be paid out of the moneys of the Commissioner such remuneration as is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal, but, if no determination of that remuneration by the Tribunal is in operation, he shall be paid such remuneration as is prescribed. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1), omit 'out of the moneys of the Commissioner'. This amendment is consequential on other amendments which have been passed already by the Committee. In this case, the amendment flows from the decision that separate financial arrangements for the Commissioner will not now be necessary. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 35 to 39- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 40. 
1 ) The Commissioner is an approved authority for the purposes of the Superannuation Act 1922-1974. 
For the purposes of sub-sections 4 (3A) and (4) of the Superannuation Act 1922-1974, the Commissioner shall be deemed to be required, by the terms of his appointment, to give the whole of his time to the duties of his office. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause  (  1 ). 
This is a consequential amendment flowing from the decision that separate financial arrangements for the Commissioner will not now be necessary. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 41. 
The Commissioner may, with the approval of the Attorney-General, appoint such officers and engage such employees as he thinks necessary for the purposes of this Act. 
The terms and conditions of employment of persons appointed or engaged under sub-section ( 1 ) shall be such as are, with the approval of the Attorney-General, determined by the Commissioner. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: '41. (1) The staff of the Commissioner shall be persons appointed or employed under the Public Service Act 1922-1974. '(2) The Commissioner has all the powers of, or exercisable by, a Permanent Head under the Public Service Act 1922-1974 so far as those powers relate to the branch of the Australian Public Service comprising the staff referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) as if that branch were a separate Department of the Australian Public Service. '(3) For the purposes of sub-sections 25 (5) and (6) of the Public Service Act 1922-1974, the Commissioner shall be deemed to be a Permanent Head. '(4) Notwithstanding sub-section (1), the Commissioner may, on terms and conditions approved by the Public Service Board, engage persons, not being persons appointed or employed as mentioned in that sub-section to provide services for the Commissioner. '. 
The purpose of the amendment is self-evident. It has been adverted to in many of the contributions by honourable members. It relates to the staff of the Commissioner and brings them under the provisions of the Public Service Act. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 42. 
If a person appointed as Commissioner or as an officer of the Commissioner was, immediately before his appointment, an officer of the Australian Public Service or a person to whom the Officers' Rights Declaration Act 1928-1973 applied- 
he retains his existing and accruing rights; 
for the purpose of determining those rights, his service as Commissioner or as an officer shall be taken into account as if it were service in the Australian Public Service; and 
the Officers' Rights Declaration Act 1928-1973 applies as if this Act and this section had been specified in the Schedule to that Act. 
It might be convenient to take my next 2 amendments, Nos (19) and (20) on the circulated list, together. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
Omit 'or as an officer of the Commissioner'. In paragraph (b), omit 'or as an officer'. 
These amendments are consequential upon the staff of the Commissioner coming within the terms of the Public Service Act. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 43 to 48- by leave- taken together. 
Clauses negatived. 
Clause 49. 
1 ) The Commissioner may, either generally or otherwise as provided by the instrument of delegation, by writing signed by him, delegate to an officer or employee of the Commissioner all or any of his powers under this Act, except this power of delegation. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), omit 'an officer or employee', substitute 'a member of the staff. 
This, too, is a consequential amendment flowing from the decision that the staff of the Commissioner should be employed under the terms of the Public Service Act. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 50 to 52- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 53. 
Jurisdiction is conferred on the Superior Court of Australia to hear and determine civil and criminal proceedings instituted in that Court under this Act or removed into that Court under sub-section (4). 
Any civil or criminal proceedings instituted in a court (other than the Supreme Court) of a State, or in a court of a Territory, involving a matter arising under this Act may, at any stage of the proceedings before final judgment, be removed into the Superior Court of Australia under an order of the Superior Court of Australia, which may, upon the application of any party or the Attorney-General for sufficient cause shown, be made on such terms as the Superior Court of Australia thinks fit. 
When any such order for removal is made, such documents, if any, relating to the proceedings as are filed on record in the court of the State or Territory shall be transmitted to the registry of the Superior Court in the State or Territory concerned or, if there is more than one registry in that State or Territory, to such registry as is directed by the order. 
Where any proceedings are removed into the Superior Court of Australia under the provisions of sub-section (4), the Superior Court of Australia shall proceed as if the proceedings had been originally commenced in that Court. 
If in any proceedings removed into the Superior Court of Australia under this section it appears to the satisfaction of the Superior Court of Australia at any time after the removal that the proceedings do not really and substantially involve a matter arising under this Act, the Superior Court of Australia shall not proceed any further in the proceedings but shall remit the proceedings to the court from which they were removed and make such order as to costs as is just, and, where an order is so made remitting proceedings, any documents relating to the proceedings shall be returned to the court from which they were received. 
If a question of law concerning a matter arising under this Act arises in proceedings instituted in a court (other than the Supreme Court) of a State or in a court of a Territory- 
the court shall, if so directed at any stage of the proceedings before final judgment by an order of the Superior Court of Australia (which may, upon the application of any party or of the Attorney-General for sufficient cause shown, be made on such terms as the Superior Court of Australia thinks fit) refer the question to the Superior Court of Australia for the consideration of the Superior Court of Australia; and 
where a question is so referred, the Superior Court of Australia has jurisdiction to hear and determine the question. 
The Government cannot accept the amendments proposed principally for the reasons I have already given and I need not canvass them again. As to the Superior Court Bill and the reference to it, the honourable member for Bennelong would be aware that clause 54 provides on an interim basis the exercise of jurisdiction by the Australian Industrial Court. One would certainly hope that in one form or another the Opposition some day will support the Superior Court concept. The Government frankly admits that it likes its own courts. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 54 (Exercise of Jurisdiction by Australian Industrial Court). 
We oppose the proposal. I must say to my good friend, the honourable member for Bennelong, that we find it very difficult to accept the argument that the Industrial Court in some way or another is unacceptable to him. If the honourable member wishes to take that point of view it is a matter for himself but it seems to us to be incomprehensible. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 55. 
A person who- 
has instituted, or proposes to institute, a proceeding in a court under sub-section 25 (4) or is, in a proceeding instituted in a court by the Commissioner under sub-section 25 ( 1), joined by the court as a party to the proceeding in accordance with sub-section 25(3); or 
b) has done, or is alleged to have done, an act in respect  of  which a proceeding has been instituted in a court under sub-section 25 ( 1 ) or (4), may apply to the Attorney-General for a grant of assistance under this section in respect of the proceeding. 
Where an application is made by a person under subsection ( 1 ), the Attorney-General, or an officer of the Australian Public Service authorized in writing by the AttorneyGeneral, may, if he is satisfied that it would involve hardship to that person to refuse the application and that, in all the circumstances, it is reasonable that the application should be granted, authorize the grant by Australia to the person, either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as the Attorney-General or officer determines, such legal or financial assistance in relation to the proceeding as the AttorneyGeneral or officer determines. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
( 1 ) A person who- 
is required to appear at a proceeding before a prescribed authority under section 23; 
has instituted, or proposes to institute, a proceeding in a court under sub-section 25 (4) or is, in a proceeding instituted in a court by the Commissioner under sub-section 25 (1), joined by the court as a party to the proceeding in accordance with sub-section 25(3); 
has done, or is alleged to have done, an act in respect of which a proceeding has been instituted in a court under sub-section 25 ( 1 ) or (4); or 
d ) is prosecuted for an offence against this Act, may apply to the Attorney-General for the provision of assistance under this section in respect of the proceeding. 
Where an application is made by a person under subsection ( 1 ), the Attorney-General, or an officer of the Australian Public Service authorized in writing by the AttorneyGeneral, may, if he is satisfied that it would involve hardship to that person to refuse the application and that, in all the circumstances, it is reasonable that the application should be granted, authorize the provision by Australia to that person, either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as the Attorney-General or officer determines, of such legal or financial assistance in relation to the proceeding as the Attorney-General or officer determines. 
The purpose of the amendment is to omit clause 55 and to substitute a new clause which is set out in the amendment. The intent is clear. It seeks to expand the concept or the facility of legal aid which is offered by the Bill. The amendment, in its original form, was restricted to legal aid in civil proceedings. Probably legal aid might well have been available on application from some other source, but it was deemed appropriate to extend in a statute the availability of legal aid beyond civil proceedings and to criminal proceedings. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  It would appear, and I think it should be stated here, that if the amendment moved by the Minister is approved, then the amendment standing in the name of the honourable member for Bennelong would not be valid. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 56 (1) The Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June in each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Attorney-General a report of the operations of the Commissioner during that year. 
The Attorney-General shall cause a copy of the report to be laid before each House of the Parliament within15 sitting days of that House after the report is received by him. ' 
This amendment is a consequential one flowing from the decision that separate financial arrangements for the Commissioner will not now be necessary. 
Substitute Clause 56 agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
I shall be brief in my remarks,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I thank both the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  for raising this matter. It has been the subject of considerable study by parliamentary counsel and the Solicitor-General. As both honourable gentlemen would appreciate, the Convention was not drawn by us; it is a treaty to which we subscribe. One has to take it into account and not go beyond it. That does pose problems, particularly with laws of the various State parliaments, in that one has to try to take into account laws of which one might not approve and yet at the same time not bring about the result that both honourable members have in mind. We are in complete agreement on that. The matter will continue to be studied. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-in reply-I wish to reply very briefly to the remarks made by honourable gentlemen during the third reading stage of the Bill. I have to express complete disagreement with the remarks of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  One would think that the common law has produced the answers to this problem. A number of honourable members on the opposite side spoke in glowing terms of the common law and its achievements in the second reading debate. No one is a greater admirer of the common law and the ways in which it can achieve progress than I am but it has been a dismal failure in terms of trying to give relief where racial discrimination exists. 
I say this to those gentlemen who talk about a democratic society: Ask the oppressed peoples who sometimes have to survive in a democratic society; ask the Aborigines about a democratic society; ask those who are getting angry at being denied their rights. Those honourable gentlemen will get little patience from them. Do not blame legislation like this that has appeared around the world for the rising tide of racial anger that exists in the world. The legislation has been in response to that rising tide of racial anger. 
My God, racial relations in the United States of America have been transformed, and transformed for the better, as a result of legislation in that country. I can remember my boyhood days when films portrayed negroes as monkeys. Those days are gone and negroes now stand in large measure with a certain dignity largely because of the Warren court and the way in which it was able to interpret the United States Constitution and apply that interpretation to legislation. With great respect,  Mr Speaker,  I ask honourable members opposite not to talk that nonsense. 
Everyone has conceded that this is a serious attempt to do something about racial discrimination. Of course there will be difficulties associated with the legislation. We all appreciate that we cannot legislate in respect of a standard of attitude because this has to come from within the minds of people but the legislation can express the feelings of a civilised society. It can express the sense of outrage that a civilised society feels about discrimination of this sort where it exists. We can put the sanctions of the criminal law behind breaches of those standards. 
Personally I am very pleased that the legislation is to be passed. I hope that it goes through the Senate. It seems likely that in one way or the other it will find its way into the High Court. I hope that it survives there too because it is very badly needed in Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (7) My attention has been drawn to reports that there is an organisation styling itself 'Terrorist International'. The Australian Government has no knowledge of meetings, composition or activities concerning matters relating to these reports. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. In view of the breadth and complexity of the provisions of the Act, the initial advertising was confined to a written advertisement which could cover a wide range of matters. As the Act is now becoming more widely understood the use of radio and television, to highlight particular aspects of the legislation, may be more appropriate. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to House of Representatives Question No. 1230. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
It is probably not necessary to go over this matter once again. It has been before this place now on 3 occasions. Suffice to say that the original proposition has now been fairly extensively increased and the bounty will now go to all compressors made and used in Australia. I note- I say this to my good friend opposite, the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)-  that the notes provided by my Department speak of representations that were made that led to this change. That is as good a euphemism for something else as I have ever come across. I know that when the honourable member for Berowra and I first faced each other on this measure back in September 1974 we were both agreed as to the measure. What happened in the Senate may be called the result of representations and may also be called the result of something else, but it has now been brought about. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
Grants by the Criminology Research Council from the Criminology Research Fund, pursuant to section 47 of the Criminology Research Act 1971. 
Grants to approved marriage guidance organisations pursuant to section 9 of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959-1966. 
Grants to legal aid organisations. 
The remainder of this answer is set out in tabular form. 
I thank the honourable member for the question. My attention has been drawn to the report. In fact, it was the honourable member who drew my attention to it. I have had inquiries made because one always views reports of this nature with considerable concern. In this case I am happy to say that there is no substance in the report I do not know whether it is appropriate to say that, but that is the fact. My inquiries and the advice I have received indicate that there is no truth in the allegation that the 3 men who have now been convicted of the murder of Bergmann belonged to an organisation formed to overthrow the Government of Australia. I am advised that each of them is of a fairly low level of intelligence and that to a certain extent they live in a world of fantasy. I might mention in addition that the alleged leader of the group, McConnell, is currently receiving treatment at Morisset Mental Hospital. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to question No. 101 on 8 April 1975 (Hansard page 1310). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please refer to House of Representatives Hansard dated 8 April 1975, page 1311. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please refer to House of Representatives Hansard dated 8 April, 1975, page 1320. 
-The honourable member is probably referring to newspaper reports about the decision by the Law Institute of Victoria, announced I think this morning, to mount a challenge in the High Court to the Australian Legal Aid Office scheme to provide legal aid. That is the only one that I am aware of in concrete form. It has to be said, not by way of any comment on the legal issues involved but on the attitudes to be found, unfortunately in some members of the legal profession, that there is opposition to the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
During the recent 4-week recess of the Parliament I had occasion to go down to Victoria seven or eight times, I think, to speak to solicitors principally, and also to barristers, about the functions of the Australian Legal Aid Office and how it poses no threat to them and was designed to provide legal facilities for people who never went near a private solicitor for very good reasons, often the fear of incurring expense and often because of the mystique that unfortunately too often surrounds the profession. I refer to the poor, the inarticulate and the uneducated in our community- the people who, amongst others, this Labor Government proudly claims to speak for and for whom it works. It is those people who increasingly in recent years have been identified as members of the community who, although desperately in need of legal services, are denied legal services. 
Studies have revealed this unfortunate fact in Australian life, the most recent, I suppose, being that conducted by Professor Sackville on law and poverty in Australia. As honourable members would know, he made a strong, scathing comment on the existing legal aid systems and said that they were seriously lacking, seriously deficient, in many of the services they were able to offer. It is the intent of the Australian Legal Aid Office to fill that gap, and it has been remarkably successful. Today some 2 1 Australian Legal Aid Offices operate successfully around Australia providing a service that was never provided before. Unfortunately, some members of the legal profession- I emphasise the word 'some'usually those who have never conducted a free case in their lives and who have done very well out of the law, object to the office's activities. It seems that that influence has prevailed in Victoria, and it is to be regretted. The vote on the matter was surprisingly close- something like 1 03 1 to 899. I am told that when one sees that against the overall total it means that about 30 per cent of solicitors in Victoria voted in favour of mounting the challenge. The Government stands committed to the Australian Legal Aid Office. The discussions will continue with members of the legal profession around Australia. 
It is a pity that the legal profession seems prepared to allow some of its spokesmen to take it along the same road that the doctors took their profession. We now see that course coming to an end with the successfull acceptance by the Australian people of the Medibank scheme. The main contributing factor there was public opinion. Public opinion taught the doctors that they had to accommodate themselves to what Australian's wanted in medical care. There is no doubt in my mind that public opinion, sometimes cold but sometimes very effective, will produce the same change of mind in those members of the legal profession who object to the ALAO. 
I do not know of any lawyer members of the Parliament who have had fees paid to them by the Australian Legal Aid Office. I do not say that there are not any; I just do not know of any. I had discussions with the senator in question. He called on me last night and I spoke with him again on the telephone this morning. 
I have had very friendly discussions with the senator. One can sympathise with him because of the situation in which he finds himself. My reaction to his request is that it seems to ask a lot of the Attorney-General to go on a witch hunt against all sorts of other members of this Parliament, looking for something the senator can use to dob in other members, he having been dobbed in by someone. I do not see that as being my function at all. However, as I told him on the telephone this morning, his letter is being treated as a formal request and is under consideration at this moment. 
I wish to reply briefly to some of the contributions made in this debate by honourable members. Let me deal first with the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  He asked us to consider certain suggestions and we will certainly do that because, in a changing society, the law relating to that changing society must also change. Consideration of the relationship between society and the law also should be continually under review. There is nothing novel in that proposition. It is just an indication of the need for constant study. 
At the risk of being abrasive or striking a discordant note, because I welcome the support which the Opposition is giving to the Government's measure, I have to say that I cannot help being a little amused by some Opposition spokesmen, particularly the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  who spoke about closing the stable door after the horse had bolted. My God. I ask honourable members to reflect on the facts, not so much on the words that the honourable member used. For 23 years Liberal-Country Party governments closed no door. For 23 years they kept the door wide open. For 23 years they did not even have a building. They tore down the little building that did existthe Australian Industries Preservation Act- and replaced it with a shanty made of cardboard which promptly blew away when it was exposed to the first challenge in the High Court. When this Government introduced its legislation the Opposition opposed it vigorously. How many times did this parent Act- this magnificent piece of legislation- have to face challenge in the Parliament before the Government eventually forced it through? Whence came the opposition? 
It was from honourable members opposite. Was it 3, 4 or 5 times that the legislation had to face challenge in the Senate or in this House? How many times did my predecessor introduce it into the Senate, have it rejected out of hand, then have it brought down here and have it come up in the Senate again? Now unanimously the public applauds this legislation. Australia has the best piece of anti-trade practices legislation in the world but the Government received no help from the Opposition in reaching that result. Yet honourable members opposite stand up here and say that the Government is closing the door after the horse has bolted. My God, what else does one have to listen to? 
The honourable member for Lyne said that there are too many restrictions on private enterprise. Although that point wanders from the legislation a little- I am sure he knew that it was wandering a little from the immediate purpose of this amending Bill- it calls for an answer. The parent Act is called the Trade Practices Act. It is the one for which the Government fought so hard to have enacted, the one that is so universally applauded these days. Perhaps it could be better called a competition Act. It does not really impose restrictions on private enterprise. It imposes restrictions on those practices in which private enterprise sometimes engages which negate competition. It is a pro-competition Bill. It is criticised because it exposes private enterprise to the winds of competition- free competitionthe very thing for which honourable members opposite are supposed to stand. It was introduced by a Government which they often criticise and abuse for being socialistic. But it is a pro- competition Bill. 
I put to the honourable member for Lyne who talks about restrictions on private enterprise, that competition tends to give way to monopoly. Monopoly does not always work in the public interest. Businessmen tend to enter into negotiations and agreements to restrict competition in their own interests. The paramount section is section 45. What does it do? If honourable members opposite want to call this a restriction on private enterprise they may do so by all means, but I would suggest that it is the opposite. A contract in restraint of trade is unenforceable. Long before this was enacted the common law had a healthy resentment of contracts in restraint of trade, a resentment developed over hundreds of years because the common law- the judges themselves- recognised that businessmen often put their heads together, not in the interests of their customers but in their own interests. This Bill is a pro-competition Bill. It could well have been called a competition Bill. It does not impose restrictions on private enterprise; it imposes restrictions on agreements and arrangements that sometimes go against private enterprise, in which private enterprise sometimes tends to indulge. I just put that to the honourable member for Lyne because he raised the subject, although I think he recognised that it was outside the scope of the amending Bill. 
May I congratulate the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who is not in the chamber at the moment, on an extremely good and thoughtful contribution to the debate. As I pointed out earlier, when trade practices and business practices continue to change the law has to watch them continually and perhaps adapt itself to change. There can be no absolute, unyielding, unchanging law these days, if ever there could be. The honourable member drew attention to some criticisms directed at the Commission, of which the Government is well aware. For example, he said that at times the Commission is a little too slow. It is far quicker than the old procedures that operated under the law, if one can call it that, before this Government changed it. Let me pause at this stage and say that the prosecution of the Sharp Corporation of Australia Pty Ltd that was referred to by one honourable member could never have taken place without this piece of legislation. What was it all about? A well known corporation in Australia decided to publish advertisements that were without doubt a fraud on the Australian public. The Corporation said that its product had been approved by a body of high repute in the community when it had not been approved by that body at all. 'Deceit' is the old fashioned word for it. Without that law that this Government made, that deceit would never have been exposed. It is true it can be said that in the past the States have tried to make laws to expose deceits of that sort but they failed miserably. 
It was the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  who touched on the question of State rights in a kind of State rights-centralist context. We all know that the consumer protection provisions of the various State Acts have been totally inadequate. The Sharp Corporation prosecution is the biggest single testimony to the success of this legislation in the short time in which it has operated- less than a year. I think it was  Mr Justice  Joske who said something consistent with that in his judgment today. One could go on but I will not take any more time except to touch on one aspect that the honourable member for Bennelong mentioned. One is always amazed at the capacity of the Opposition to oppose something vigorously, oppose it persistently and, when it eventually goes through, to try to take some credit for it. Along the way the Opposition makes political capital of the position adopted. The honourable member tried to suggest that there has been some difference of opinion between the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrision)  and me on this matter. Let me assure him and the House that there has been no such difference of opinion. I read the articles that the honourable member read in the 'Australian Financial Review' by someone named Robert Haupt. I can assure him that when I read those articles I hoped that there might be a provision somewhere in the Trade Practices Act concerning misleading representations that would apply to those articles because they bore absolutely no relationship to the true situation. The same newspaper made some other contributions, if they can be given that name, at the same time dealing with other measures which the Government has been putting forward. I mention that just in passing. 
In conclusion let me say that the Government accepts the amendments put forward by the Opposition. Indeed, the Government had it in mind to do this itself. As I am sure the Opposition will admit, we corrected the grammar, put the syntax right, gave the Opposition access to Parliamentary Counsel and wrote out the amendments for the Opposition. It is important that the legislation be kept under continuous review. We all know what the 2 major measures are. One is to exempt from goods that are intended for export the standard provisions that are appropriate in Australia because the country to which the goods go will set its own standards. It is proper that they should set their own standards. Unsolicited credit cards have been a nuisance to many people. They were not wanted; they were an invasion of privacy. The sending of unsolicited credit cards was an irresponsible act and was recognised as such overseas, where they have been outlawed. This Government is only doing what many overseas countries quite rightly have done themselves. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I will be very brief,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  because the amendments are a matter of consent between my friend and myself, by arrangement. (Quorum formed) The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  touched on the confusion that is sometimes said to exist between the various State laws on consumer protection and Part V of the legislation which is under consideration tonight. I think one has to agree with him on this subject. There is a certain amount of uncertainty, but one should not draw from that the conclusion that the Australian Parliament should not have laws on consumer protection. We have already seen the deficiency in the State laws, and I often wonder how many people, how many members of this House, let alone citizens, realise the absurdity that exists in the Australian legal system when it comes to laws of this sort. 
As a consequence of our history we have eight or nine sets of laws. Certainly we have 8 sets of laws on defamation, company law, securities law, consumerism, criminal law, land laws, the law of torts, the law of nuisance, the law of negligence. The laws of New South Wales and Victoria and Western Australia and Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, to go on without mentioning all of them, are as different from each other for practical and legal purposes as the law of Paraguay is different from the law of the Soviet Union and are treated as such in terms of public international law. I just touch on this and I put it to the honourable member that, when he talks about confusion, it is a confusion resulting from our history. What absurdity it is that when a motorist drives a motor car from the Australian Capital Territory to New South Wales and crosses the border his entitlement to damages suddenly depends upon whether he is a few hundred yards south or north of an invisible line. One gets quite absurd situations. This legislation seeks to take a step in the direction of a kind of uniformity and avoidance of that confusion that the honourable member singles out for attention and regret, and which I also regret. 
The answer to the honourable member's criticism is not to abdicate the field as his Party did when in government, but to try to occupy the field where possible and to try to negotiate with the States. I refer to those parts of Australia called States. That is all they are. They are not something above criticism. They are parts of Australia as such and just merely in passing are called States. We must try to bring some sense to this ridiculous situation that exists in the country because we have so many sets of laws. That give rise to confusion. If that is called a States' rights or a centralist argument, so be it. But this legislation is a step in the right direction. 
-My attention had not been drawn to the statement by the Victorian AttorneyGeneral but some matters can be said in reply to the honourable gentleman's question. The condition of legal aid in Victoria is not good. It was revealed to be not good; in fact the Sackville Committee which inquired into the overall scene in Australia revealed it to be bad. We know that in recent times the Victorian Government sponsored system of legal aid has been running into very serious financial difficulty. The Australian Government offered assistance of an amount of about $307,000. It was actually one of the first letters I wrote to the Victorian Attorney, on 12 February 1975, Implicit in my letter was the condition that the Australian Government's form of legal assistance in Victoria would continue to exist. I am referring to the Australian Legal Aid Office. The letter requested consultation and the use of the Australian Legal Aid Office regional offices wherever possible as agencies for the Victorian Government sponsored scheme. In other words, we were putting to the Victorian Government the reasonable proposition that we wanted to fill with the Australian Legal Aid Office the vacuum in legal aid that had been revealed to exist in Victoria, but at the same time to give what financial assistance we were able to give to the Victorian Government sponsored scheme. 
While I was doing that in an attempt to be fair and reasonable the Victorian Attorney-General was writing to the Council of the Victorian Law Institute urging it to take a certain stand as far as the Australian Legal Aid Office was concerned. The letter that he wrote can be regarded as little else than an attempt to sabotage the Australian Legal Aid Office scheme as it operates in Victoria. In emotional language he wrote urging the Council to adopt a certain course, which it has now adopted. Of course it still rests with the Victorian Attorney-General as to whether or not he gives a fiat to the Victorian Law Institute to continue the proceedings on which it has voted. The whole point is this, that the Victorian Attorney's reaction to our offer of assistance was to sabotage the scheme, to destroy it and break the conditions which were implicit in our offer of help. The Australian Government is ready to help. We want to help. We offer to help. I cannot say with too much vehemence and sincerity that, when the Victorian Government seems to be determined to destroy one form of legal aid in Victoria that has been very successful and that is meeting a very great need in Victoria, one is obviously in danger of being embarrassed. The offers of help to the Victorian Government are still open but we seek its consultation, co-operation and assistance. 
-The honourable gentleman made so many points that I can only single some out for answer. 
I am not a doctor. The question of the harmful effects or otherwise of marihuana is a continuing debate. My understanding is that the case for its harmful effects is nowhere near as convincingly made out as it is for alcohol and certainly for nicotine. But the debate and the controversy continue. As far as trafficking in drugs is concerned, no one has a greater abhorrence of it than I do. The pusher, the trafficker and so forth, the people who fatten on some other person and make money in that way, are to be criticised and made the subject of criminal law. May I say this on the subject of the Australian Capital Territory, because there was some unfortunate exchange of criticisms between the honourable member for Hotham and myself in the media last week on the subject. My understanding, and it is based upon advice that has come to me from the Department, is that some considerable time ago a practice was arrived at in the Australian Capital Territory Police Force that led to no more arrests being made. There were exceptions to that, but that was the policy and that was the practice. The policy, if it can be called that, was in large measure a result of the fact that the courts in the Australian Capital Territory were not recording convictions. They were dismissing charges because of defects in the law. There are other reasons, of course, that perhaps one can impute to the policemen concerned. 
I do not regard my function as being to move into an area like that and give policemen directions that they should go against their own good judgement. The matter of changing the law is a matter for my concern. There is a proposal, with which I am associated, together with the Minister for Health in the Government, which would give effect to certain international treaty obligations that the Government has, flowing from the International Convention on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. If that proposition comes to fruition the penalties that are obviously thought desirable by the honourable gentleman for trafficking in hard drugs will certainly be extremely severe. On the question of marihuana it would provide- it is only a proposal at this stage- for a penalty much lighter than the penalties that exist in the existing State legislation, because this proposal, if it comes to fruition will result in legislation from this Parliament that will have overriding Australia-wide effect. It will record the feeling in the community that marihuana is not to be legalised at this stage, but- I emphasise this aspect- there will also be a requirement on the Government flowing from its international obligations to let it be that way. In other words there will be no legal capacity or power to remove altogether, the penalty applying to marihuana although there are significant numbers of people in the community who believe that that should be done as well. 

Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 1 and 12 ( 1975). 
-That is quite right. 
-The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. These Proposals formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by Gazette Notices during the last recess. The changes arise from the Government's decisions on recommendations by the Temporary Assistance Authority in its report on: domestic refrigerators, washing machines and clothes dryers; and precision ground steel ball bearings. 
A comprehensive summary setting out the nature of the changes in the duty rates and the origin of each of the alterations contained in the Proposals is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Government intends to introduce amendments to section 70 of the Crimes Act along the lines recommended in the United Kingdom by the Franks Committee. Section 70 presently prohibits generally the disclosure of official information. The Franks Committee recommended that a person should be liable to prosection only where the information falls within certain specified categories of confidential information. 
I did read the reports that no doubt came to the attention of the honourable member. I think they appeared in the 'National Times' over the weekend. It is disturbing to read that decisions of that sort have been taken at times in the past by police officers in charge of people in custody. I think it should be said as well- this would be known to members of the profession in the House, particularly those who have practised criminal law in the past- that there has been a certain lack of enthusiasm sometimes on the part of prison officers and indeed police officers charged with the care of people in custody when lawyers wanting to speak to people in custody ask permission to do so. One assumes that the thinking of the police is that the lawyer might in some manner get in the way. I have noticed with some pleasure that in recent years that tendency on the part of police officers has diminished. 
As far as the Blacktown Australian Legal Aid Office is concerned, it is correct that the duty lawyer service at the Blacktown Magistrates Court was suspended for some 2 months from August 1974 after police authorities strictly enforced a police instruction limiting access to the cells. However, the duty lawyer service has been operating satisfactorily since about October 1974 with the assistance of the presiding magistrate, who announces to unrepresented persons, particularly those in custody, that the duty lawyer is available to help them. The Blacktown police have co-operated in arranging for the duty lawyer to see persons in custody who seek the services of the duty lawyer, either by approaching the police or after the magistrate has drawn their attention to the duty lawyer service. The question of general access to prisoners in the cells remains to be resolved completely. The Director of the Australian Legal Aid Office has taken the matter up - 
-The Director of the Australian Legal Aid Office has taken the matter up with the New South Wales Commissioner for Legal Aid Services and the senior police prosecutors, but it does remain to be resolved completely. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who has associated himself with the continuing debate on marihuana for some years now, contributes to the inflammatory features - 
I do not suggest that the honourable member apologise for being associated with the debate, because it is one that has been active in the community for many years and he has played a prominent part in it. What I suggest to the honourable member is that the emotion which he brings to bear on this occasion and over the last week is not warranted. He inflames the passions which are aroused when the emotional subject such as drugs and what should be done about drugs in a modern community is debated. By fanning the passions in that way, the honourable member also contributes to the hypocrisy and the double standards which exist in our community in relation to drugs. He criticised the answer I gave. He drew attention to the fact that the circumstances which were dealt with in that answer related not to the time when I was Attorney-General, but to a previous period- principally last year in 1 974. 
But may I just correct the honourable member. There was nothing incorrect in the answer which I gave him. In reply to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  the other day, I went into a great deal more detail about the matter. The simple facts are that for some time there has been a policy in the Australian Capital Territory by the police of the Australian Capital Territory not to arrest people who are found merely in possession of cannabis. As I have said in this House on previous occasions, there have been exceptions to this and a prosecution did take place, as I recollect it and on the advice given to me, in about October 1974. But that does not detract from the fact that the Australian Capital Territory Police on their own initiative, without any instructions, as I have said over and over again and I believe the facts are correct, did not arrest people when they found them in possession of cannabis and not trafficking in the substance. 
-The honourable member can say that he does not believe it. He keeps asserting a position and in doing so he is completely irresponsible and may I say hysterical. The facts are pretty clear. The honourable member should search the record. The Australian Capital Territory magistrates have not convicted people for the possession of marihuana. There is a defect in the law which relates to the definition of cannabis. The definition is defective and the Australian Capital Territory Police like many police forces throughout Australia face many such situations. They get sick and tired of wasting public money and their own time in prosecuting cases which they cannot win. 
I have instanced in this House at least once before the situation in New South Wales with regard to the crime of abortion, which statutory crime continues to exist in New South Wales. New South Wales juries were acquitting people. They would not convict, perhaps because of changing social attitudes. This is a controversial matter. Whether it is an instruction from authorities in New South Wales or not, I do not know; it is not my concern, although of course it is a matter of interest. But the simple fact is that prosecutions do not take place and have not taken place for some time in New South Wales for that particular crime. They could not get convictions, and there is an interesting philosophical point involved because that is often a way in which the law tends to be changed. Juries- and indeed magistrates are as capable of it as juries- tend to make a certain finding on the facts and the law, and that throws the matter back into the lawmaker's court. The lawmaker then decides either to change the law or not to change it, but in the course of this process reform takes place which is more in accord with changing social attitudes. Those are the simple facts of the situation in the Australian Capital Territory, and it has never been said otherwise by the honourable member for Hotham. The unsatisfactory state of the legislation in relation to the definition has made the enforcement in the Australian Capital Territory of the laws relating to marihuana a difficult task for police. 
May I go on and talk about a wider issue, because the marihuana debate does continue. This Government does have international obligations on the subject, as the honourable member for Hotham has pointed out. Those obligations flow from the Convention on Narcotic Drugs and from the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. There is an obligation on the Government to give effect to those conventions and it is an obligation that the Government intends to honour. I draw attention to some of the defects that exist in the present situation. For example, does the honourable member appreciate the enormously diverse penalties that are imposed upon people who come before the courts on drug offences? These diverse penalties are imposed either because people appear before different magistrates, which is a circumstance difficult to change, or because they appear charged with offences under different laws- Australian laws being fragmented in this way. I have the task from time to time- it is a regular task of any Attorney-General- of deciding whether or not a person in custody should be released on either parole or licence. I am appalled when I read the facts that lead to some magistrates or some judges putting people in gaol for greatly differing periods of time or imposing greatly differing levels of penalty, pursuant to different laws. Surely this is a mischief that has to be put right in Australia in this overall context. 
There is not time for me to go through all the cases but I can extract one or two to read to honourable members to illustrate the point that I have in mind. I will not use the names of the persons accused or convicted; most of them were young people, a feature of the situation that is disturbing in itself. Case A, for the importation of  151  grams of heroin- that is a hard drug- the penalty was a  $500  good behaviour bond. I repeat that for the importation of  15 1  grams- a lot of heroin- a good behaviour bond was considered sufficient. In case B, for the importation of  34  grams of heroin another  $500  good behaviour bond was the penalty. In case C, for the importation of  1 1  grams of heroin  6Vi  years imprisonment with hard labour was imposed. In case D, for the importation of  374 1  grams of cannabis the so-called soft drug, the one that is often said to be less harmful than alcohol and certainly less harmful than nicotine- a fine of  $500  was imposed. In the case of Miss E, for having in possession prohibited imports,  1537  grams of cannabis- again presumably for trafficking, but it is the soft drug, the one that is said to be harmless-  2  years  5  months imprisonment with hard labour was imposed on each charge, the sentences to be served concurrently. In the case of Miss F, for the importation of  1517  grams of cannabis, a fine of  $300  was imposed, with a.stay of one month to pay; she was given time to pay. In the case of  Mr G,  for having in possession  7.9  grams of cannabis- an almost nominal amount- a fine of  $1,000  was imposed, in default  6  months. In the case of Miss H, on  2  charges concerning the importation of  1673  grams of cannabis, the penalty was  2  years imprisonment on each charge, the sentences to be served concurrently. 
I appreciate that when magistrates convict people for offences they take into account more than simply the amount and nature of the drug. They take into account any previous recordform, as lawyers call it- and other surrounding circumstances. They take into account the age of the accused and the general circumstances. One could go through the files on cases of this sortand honourable members will appreciate that I cannot put them all before the House- and find a remarkable degree of similarity in offences and find this enormous disparity in penalties- heavyhandedness on one side and complete softness of approach, leniency, turning a blind eye, on the other. I put to honourable members that there is a case to standardise and bring some degree of order into a chaotic situation. Indeed, one could go on and one must say that the whole approach of the community to drug taking should not be confined to seeing the problem through the eyes of the criminal law. Certainly in the case of users, certainly in the cases of dependent persons, the persons who are caught on a drug, as far as possible one should treat them as cases of sickness, as cases where medical and hospital attention is required rather than threats to put them in gaol, although one should bring to bear the full power of the criminal law against the trafficker, against the person who exploits somebody in a vulnerable situation of this sort. The honourable member for Hotham does no one any service at all when he recklessly alleges that the Government wants to decriminalise the laws relating to marihuana. 
I did not say that. I said to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  the other day that there would be reduced penalties under the proposition that was being considered. 
-I did not. 
I did not say it. 
Dear me, one has to put up with this recklessness and this hysteria time and time again. The honourable member should read the statement again. The proposition finds support from the recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse on the subject; it finds support from everyone who has ever considered the subject. Although there is a considerable body of opinion which says that marihuana users should not be subject to the criminal law- I may have stated that previously because I do believe there is a considerable body of opinion to that effect- the majority opinion in the community is that marihuana users should not be subjected to the same severity of the criminal law as the trafficker in heroin. 
Well, that is the way in which the honourable member seems to be trying to confuse the issue. The proposition that I mentioned the other day is a serious one. It attempts to take account of the difficulties that will always exist with the different State laws. This Government has an obligation to honour international conventions in that regard. This proposition that is under study and being discussed between the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  and myself- and I emphasise the Minister for Health because it is as much a matter for him as it is for a law enforcement officer or for anyone concerned with the criminal law- is to put the question of drugs on to a proper, rational basis. If the proposal comes to fruition there will be the hardest penalties imposed against the trafficker, against the exploiter of illicit drugs, particularly drugs of the hard kind. 
-The proposal is not in final form at this stage and I regret that I cannot put it to the right honourable member now. But yes, the minimum penalties will probably be extremely severe. The suggestion- and it is no more than a suggestion, although I do not mind giving it to the right honourable member- is for penalties of 25 years imprisonment and $100,000 fine. Indeed, there is even a suggestion that there be forfeiture of assets as well because we all know that on the international scene there are great business interests involved in the drug traffic business. Fortunes can be made out of it. When international business- some of the seedy aspects of business- puts its mind to the rewards that can be gained in that way the risks can be seen as little more than something that has to be insured against. So the penalties have to be extremely severe indeed. But there is a world of difference between that situation and the situation of a young person who believes- and it is to be hoped that he or she is correct- that smoking marihuana is not harmful. I have never smoked it myself; as I have said before, I do not know whether any of my friends smoke it or not. I do not have many trendy friends; most of my friends are old squares, it is often said. But some people do believe that they are not doing anything harmful to themselves or to anyone else, other than that they are breaking the law as it exists at the moment, when they smoke marihuana. 
There is a great need to put the matter on to a more rational level. This Government has been party to a deep and prolonged study of the subject. Its mere determination to honour international obligations is recognition of that fact. The Senate Committee on the subject, as we all know, made strong recommendations that are consistent with what I have been saying in this House. Indeed, the other courses of study that the Government has had under way are consistent with the same proposition, consistent with what I have said to the honourable member for Hotham, consistent with the problems that the police face in the Australian Capital Territory and consistent with the proposals that I have described on two occasions now that concern the Minister for Health and me and that I hope will be brought into this House for the consideration of this House when they reach their final form, which will not be in the too distant future. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The discussion is concluded. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to modify the provision at present made by section 46 of the Constitution in relation to disqualifications of members and senators by virtue of sections 43, 44 and 45 of the Constitution. Section 46 provides- I am sure honourable members would be familiar with itthat, until the Parliament otherwise provides, any person declared by the Constitution to be incapable of sitting as a senator or as a member of the House of Representatives shall, for every day on which he so sits, be liable to pay the sum of  100 to any person who sues for it in any court of competent jurisdiction. This provision has not been availed of since Federation by any common informer, the name usually given to applicants in suits of that kind. It has its origin in old United Kingdom legislation which has, so far as concerns recovery of penalties by common informers, been repealed in more recent times. For reasons which I will explain later, the Government does not intend to repeal it in its entirety but to modify it. 
There is one matter that I think I should make absolutely clear to honourable members. This is that the provisions made by the Bill before the House will not affect the reference of any question affecting disqualification to the High Court by the House in relation to which a question arises in pursuance of section 203 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. It is my understanding that a matter concerning section 203 is before the Senate at this time. That procedure will still be open and will no doubt be followed in appropriate cases. 
It seems to the Government that the penalty provided by section 46 is archaic and out of proportion to the kinds of breaches of the disqualifying provisions that can occur in the complexities of modern life. I might mention that the penalty of f 100 per day provided for by the section is a fixed penalty, and not a maximum one, so that the total penalty that could be incurred by a member or senator could amount to enormous sums where the infringement does not become apparent until years after it has occurred. The Government does not believe that a breach of the Constitution should be condoned, no matter how the breach occurred. The Bill now before the House will result, in the Government's view, in an equitable solution to this difficult question. The Bill provides for the recovery of a penalty of $200 in respect of a past breach at the suit of any person. It provides an adequate sanction in enabling a further $200 per day to be recovered for each day the member or senator sits when disqualified after he has been served with the originating process. Thus if a serious allegation is made and proceedings issued, the member or senator will be at risk if he continues to sit. 
The power to make provision repealing or modifying the common informer provision in section 46 of the Constitution is provided by section 5 1 (xxxvi) of the Constitution in conjunction with the words 'Until the Parliament otherwise provides' in section 46 itself. This Bill is an exercise of that power. It is not the intention of the Government to encourage common informer proceedings. But it feels that this procedure should be kept open notwithstanding its disuse during the twentieth century in relation to the Australian Constitution. However, we do not think it should be a vehicle by which a private citizen should be put in a position to enrich himself unjustly. The purpose of the provision is to allow alleged disqualifications to be independently tested. There is already another procedure for this and in normal circumstances it would seem to the Government that the House itself would refer the question to the High Court and have the matter properly judicially determined. One significant change that the Bill will make is that common informer proceedings, if brought, are to be brought in the High Court. 
The Bill will apply to disqualifications that have occurred before the date on which it becomes law as well as those that occur after that date. However, a provision has been included in clause 3 that a suit under the Bill is not to relate to any sitting of a person as a senator or member at a time earlier than 12 months before the day on which the suit is instituted. It does not appear to the Government to be in the public interest that the Bill should be used as the means of raising matters long since past. The Bill also makes it clear that in any common informer proceedings a senator or member at fault is not to be penalised more than once in respect of the same wrongful sitting. There is some judicial authority to the effect that that enactment would not be necessary, but there is doubt about it, and for greater caution the Government believes it is proper to insert this provision in the Bill. 
It will be seen that the Bill will thus preserve the common informer procedure provided for by the Constitution, while modifying its application in a way that will be more in keeping with modern times and justice. The Houses' power to refer questions of disqualification to the High Court will remain unaffected. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
in reply- In closing the debate, I hope, because the matter has some degree of urgency, I say at the outset that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  who has just sat down clearly has not read the Bill or, if he has, he has not understood it. The Bill certainly has the opposite effect to the one which the right honourable member put forward. The Government was attracted to the idea of doing away with the common informer action altogether. It did not adopt that course for reasons which I shall try to give in a non-political way. May I put them in a hypothetical way to illustrate my point? One can imagine a situation in which a case arises, either in this House or in the other place, with different parties- not only a 2-party system, but also a 3-party or a 4-party systemwhere a Government might take the view, trying to be non-political, that a charge has been made against a member and that the charge should be referred to the High Court pursuant to section 203 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. In doing that the Government is not expressing any view whether the man is guilty or not guilty but, rather, that the charges have been made, the facts have been put before the Parliament and the matter should be resolved by the highest tribunal in the land. 
In a hypothetical situation one can also imagine a combination of parties in Opposition, to which the charged person belonged, arguing amongst themselves and perhaps saying to themselves, if they had a majority in that House of the Parliament, that the matter should not go to the High Court. If the situation came about where 2 or more Opposition parties- this could not happen in this House- outnumbered the Government and defeated its proposition to send the matter to the High Court for independent inquiry and report pursuant to section 203 of the Electoral Act, then from the point of view of the public there would appear to be something not very different from a conspiracy. It is this situation which the Government is anxious to avoid. If in a House, say the Senate, a majority of the nonGovernment members- this could be any partyput their minds to a matter and defeated what was obviously a proper measure then the public would say: 'These silly politicians are ganging up to protect one of their members'. They might use stronger words. The Government took the view that there must be preserved an independent right to challenge a person's right to sit in this House. That right is the common informer action. 
The common informer action is an emotive term, which is a pity. But it is an independent right which has had a long historical significance in our country and in the countries from which we draw our traditions. At this stage the Government thought it better not to abolish the right altogether but to upgrade it or modernise it so that the citizen- I will use the emotive term and call him a common informer- would not be unjustly enriched, he would not reap a windfall but, at the same time, in a proper case he could bring an action where he saw the politicians not doing so. In that sense the common informer process is preserved by the Common Informers (Parliamentary Disqualifications) Bill. The Government believes it is a healthy measure to allow a citizen outside Parliament who is concerned with the way Parliament operates and with the basic question of whether a member of the House of Representatives or of the Senate is qualified and eligible to be investigated to take action if he thinks that the politicians in one of the 2 Houses have not done the right thing by him. He should not be enriched. He should not benefit from it unjustly. But he should be entitled to put the matter to the test in the court. That is why the Government has introduced this measure. I think the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  accepts the basic point. I think that the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  appreciates the point as well. The Government brings this measure forward to give a degree of protection but, at the same time, to preserve what is pretty obviously a basic right of all Australians. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Third reading 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Enderby)  read a third time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Spermaceti was imported from West Germany into Australia during 1973-74. However, enquiries undertaken by the Department last year revealed that material had been purchased from a supplier in a member country of the International Whaling Commission. 
Yes. 
See (1) above. 
I have been advised that the United States of America banned the export of whale products in December 1973. 
Yes, spermaceti wax was imported into Australia from the United States of America in 1974. The importations did not contravene Australian Customs legislation which permits the importation of whale products from member countries of the International Whaling Commission; the United States of America is a member. I understand that the United States authorities are examining the circumstances of the exportation. 
I do not propose to extend the import ban to cover whale products from all countries. The Australian Government agrees with the necessity for rigorous controls over the taking of whales. At the meeting of the International Whaling Commission last year the Australian delegation initiated a successful move to tighten the methods of control. Observance of the controls by the members of the International Whaling Commission will ensure the conservation of the species. 
-There can be little doubt that industry has generally supported the decision of the court as an article in the 'Financial Review' this week made clear. There was a quote attributed to  Mr Kevin  Luscombe, the  President  of the Australian Association of National Advertisers. I think he summed up the position as well as it could be summed up in saying: 
There are rules and if someone steps so clearly outside the rules, they're to expect to have the chopper come down. 
Whilst there's a lot of nervousness about the size of the fine, the Act clearly specifies the severity of fines and we've to learn with it. I hope that AANA member companies read into it how serious the Trade Practices people are. 
He went on to say: 
The Act is a damn sight more realistic than trying to interpret guidelines. 
Those companies which breach the rules can expect to be dealt with by the courts in an appropriate manner. The law is well known now and the Act makes it clear that heavy penalties may be imposed. As honourable members will recall, during 1974 there was a press campaign notifying consumers of their rights and educating them to the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. It clearly showed that from 1 October, the Government meant to rid the market place of undesirable practices in the interests of consumer protection. The Government will continue to expose offenders against the Act and, if appropriate, to launch prosecutions. The Attorney-General's Department is currently considering further prosecutions under the Act and I anticipate that early action will be taken in some other matters. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the question. I thought he would never get the call. The honourable member's reputation and record in the field of civil liberties are well known, and his interest is of long standing. May I say at the outset that I have seen some of the reports that he mentioned. I have not seen others. I can say quite firmly that the reports of criticism directed to  Mr Carmody  are completely untrue. The honourable gentleman also referred to some criticism from  Mr Gareth  Evans of the proposal for an Australia Police. The newspaper report I read was completely misleading. Within an hour or so of my reading it early yesterday morning I received a telegram from  Mr Evans  completely dissociating himself from it and saying that he was now satisfied with the civil liberties guarantees I had been giving publicly and that he had taken steps to write to the ' Australian Financial Review' in those terms. 
Whenever one considers the question of police and the relations of police with the community it naturally and understandably gives rise for concern. There can be no doubt that the individual policeman has capacity to exercise a great deal of power over an individual citizen on occasions when they perhaps confront each other. At the moment inquiries in the nature of royal commissions are operating throughout Australia on not unrelated matters. Inquiries are taking place in Western Australia, in the Northern Territory and in Victoria. The debate on the relationship between the police and the citizen has been continuing in New South Wales for many years. When the proposed legislation for an Australian police force is introduced into this House it will be the most advanced piece of legislation, from the point of view of protecting the citizen, that Australia has yet seen, and probably that the world has yet seen. For example, there will be - 
-No, I will not make a second reading speech. Justiciable provisions will be written into the Act that will set minimum standards of behaviour for the police in relation to search and seizure, arrest, dealing with general warrants. It will set up an independent tribunal for investigation of complaints against the police. There will be a police council which will involve elected representatives of the people in the communities which the police serve. Prosecutions will be launched not by the police but by an independent prosecuting section. 
Opposition members- Hurry up. 
-If honourable members opposite do not want to hear this, so be it. The point I am making is that the Government attaches enormous importance to the fact that within a piece of legislation of this sort there is an opportunity to provide these safeguards, and they will be provided in a way in which they have never been provided in any other piece of police legislation in Australia. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make it an offence for a person who is an officer, member or employee of an organisation registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to steal, fraudulently misappropriate or fraudulently convert to his own use any money or property belonging to the organisation. Seeing as Parliament has legislated in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to provide for the registration and incorporation of organisations to represent employers and employees and that such organisations may own property and are required to keep accounts of receipts from payments, funds and effects and to file records with the Registrar, it is appropriate that provision be made by Parliament for the offence proposed by this Bill. 
Section 71 of the Crimes Act 1914-1973 contains a similar offence except that it relates to any person who steals or fraudulently misappropriates or fraudulently converts to his own use any property belonging to the Commonwealth or to any public authority under the Commonwealth. The penalty for this offence is a maximum period of imprisonment for 7 years and it is a same penalty that is proposed for the offence created by this Bill. Sub-section (2) of proposed new section 91 of the Crimes Act is designed to facilitate proof in proceedings where it is not possible to trace the individual items or to prove the conversion of individual property or money. The effect is that where the books of account are kept by the defendant and these books show a general deficiency, the books can be used as evidence of the stealing, misappropriation or conversion of the sum specified in the indictment. A similar provision is contained in section 71A of the Crimes Act and a provision along these lines is found in the legislation of the States. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Howard)  adjourned. 
The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who just concluded his speech, made his usual interesting, entertaining and valuable contribution. May I say in response to the honourable member that he poses in very succinct form the basic problem that exists and underlies the laws, regulations and machinery that relate to protection for Austalian industry. As I see it, the difficulty is one of adjusting a number of competing claims and achieving a satisfactory compromise without disadvantage to any particular claim. There is also the very important question of ensuring that a rational system operates that avoids the excesses of ad hockery where people, Ministers and governments react time and again to a crisis situation, a situation that just calls for some remedial action. It is often not easy to adjust to 2 claims. As the honourable member for Wakefield indicates by his smile, he is in agreement with me. 
This Government, perhaps more than any government, began in 1973 with a firm determination to introduce system into the question of protection for Australian industry, system that would not only be fair to industry and the people employed in industry but fair also to customers and consumers, to the people who have to use goods whether those goods be motor cars, shirts, shoes or whatever they happen to be. Of course, industry is a consumer as well as a manufacturer. History has recorded the difficulties that we ran into. 
The honourable member also drew attention to the other element that must not be forgotten, and the Government certainly does not forget it, namely, the element of what lawyers call natural justice. The honourable member drew attention to this when he talked of the need to ensure that, in the adjustment of the other two competing interests, account also is taken of the interests of the importer who wants to have his voice heard and to make representations. Often the greater interest, or another great interest, demands that time be short. This is a great problem for any government to deal with. 
I believe that this legislation makes a significant step forward in adjusting those competing interests. The legislation has to be flexible, and yet it should not be so flexible that it avoids certainty. It has to be certain to give assurance yet it has to be flexible so that it can be administered in such a way that it is capable of adjustment and being kept up to date with changing circumstances. With all the temptations to be political to which the Opposition is subject, at least the indications of support for the measure show that in the Opposition's view the Government has succeeded in part in its endeavours. I shall come back to the honourable member for Wakefield later on if I may. 
The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  will forgive me if I say, with the most charitable of motives, that it did not strike me that he contributed a great deal to the debate. He went back to 1973 and tried to be political- I say this to him as an old friend- about the 25 per cent tariff cuts, revaluation and matters of that sort. I can hardly imagine him saying things like that were he now to be addressing a student class such as he would have once upon a time as a professor of economics. As I recall the overall situation in 1973 when the Government took those measures, they were universally applauded by all concerned. They were also applauded with reluctance by the honourable member because his own economic expertise told him that they were proper measures to adopt at the time. Subsequently, for political reasons which one who is a politician has to understand, he tries to back away from this attitude. But it seemed to me he raised little in his discussion apart from the remarks which he directed to the operation of clause 5 (5) (c) of the Bill. Indeed, that was touched upon by the honourable member for Wakefield and the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  in the contributions which they made to the debate. 
The simple explanation is that there has been a choice of language which departs from the language in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade for the simple reason which I put to the honourable member for Wakefield. One has to avoid rigidity. In the interests of flexibility one has to move and give a large degree of ministerial discretion. The language does that very thing. I read it to honourable members to remind them. Of course, the operative part is the final section of paragraph (c) which states:  . . . that price paid for like goods is to be taken to be that price paid adjusted in accordance with directions by the Minister. . . . 
Here is a situation where one can say that the Minister's decision is as long as the Minister's foot; it will vary from Minister to Minister. It is a change from the old jibe of a decision varying as much as the Chancellor's foot. But unfortunately that is in the nature of modern legislation. I say quite sincerely that it is unfortunate because there can be little certainty in some ways about an expression which is used in legislation like this. Yet the nature of anti-dumping legislation requires that this be so. I see that the honourable member for Berowra nods his head. Certainty as opposed to flexibility is a continually perplexing problem. Laws cannot be made and unmade every day of the week. Someone has to be given discretion. Politicians on one side of the fence or the other say: 'You will exercise your discretion for base motives'. In my experience that hardly ever happens. I do not care whether the Minister is a member of the Liberal Party, the Australian Country Party or the Australian Labor Party; it is rare for that sort of thing to happen. In fact, it is almost unheard of. So that is the reason for the choice of language there. 
Honourable members on both sides know that the Government proposes to introduce at the Committee stage some amendments which reflect the difficulties posed by the very subject matter. When the Bill was being prepared great care was taken in relation to arriving at an export price where the device, the trade practice, exists in this country, in a country like Sweden or in any other country as described by the honourable member for Wakefield. This is a continuing thing because as one makes a law here one day some practice overseas changes tomorrow. We have to give discretion. We ran into difficulty in the definiton clause, as honourable members know, when we put the definition in clause 4 paragraph (c) which states 'in any other case'. In any event, it is a wide general description to take care of a consignment transaction. We had to provide for ministerial discretion. On closer study, we found that the definition of importer, read one way, in an overseas context could include not only importers but also exporters because the transfer of property from the exporter to the importer occurred only when the importer or his agent effected a sale in this country. So we must move now to put it right, even after the lapse of such a short time between the introduction of this Bill into the House and the resumption of the second reading debate to day. 
I think they are the principal points to which I wish to reply. One point was raised by the honourable member for Fisher about Article 6 of GATT. Our obligations there will be honoured. I can tell him that. I hope that is all he required. That was the gist of his question. There should be no difficulty. We give that assurance. 
Is the honourable member directing his question to the matter of the Minister making a decision rather than the decision having been made by the Industries Assistance Commission? 
It might be easier. I thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I think they are the only matters on which I wish to say a few words. 
-Perhaps we could deal with that matter in Committee. As all honourable members would appreciate, the question of antidumping legislation is extremely important. In a world which is resorting increasingly to trading blocs because of an increased degree of competitionalmost trade wars in some areas- one can expect and must expect increasing resort to dumping measures, whether they be hidden dumping or dumping of a more overt kind. The task for any potential recipient country is to adapt continually and to change its machinery to take account of the changing devices in overseas countries which, for one reason or anotherbalance of payments reasons, this and that- are more and more in need of finding an outlet for their goods in competition with the other exporting members of the international community. 
I tell honourable members of one experience which is known to me. It relates to the world of motor cars. The Department of Customs was suspicious that a certain form of dumping was taking place. I will not be too particular, if honourable members do not mind. The dumping was in the area of motor cars coming into Australia from one country. By the ordinary old fashioned manual methods there was no way to discover and reveal the form of dumping that was taking place. Yet it was working to the detriment of Australian manufacturing industry. It could be argued that it was working  to the  advantage of the Australian buyers of motor cars because they were getting their cars cheaper than what might otherwise have been the case, but perhaps at the risk of exposing other Australians employed in the motor car industry to the possibility of losing their jobs. After a very deep and detailed study using the most modern systems of computer analysis, examination of sales, comparison of prices being asked for at sales, cost insurance freight figures and f.o.b. figures, the hidden dumping was revealed and the matter was put right. Even at the lower level of measuring the advantage of it being put right in terms of what it meant to the Australian Government in lost duties, it was about $250,000 in a very short period. 
I put to honourable members that the problem is a continuing one. This measure is a significant step forward. We thank members of the Opposition for supporting it. We welcome their questions. This measure, apart from its means of protecting Australian industry and of doing the right thing for Australian consumers, gives effect to a very important principle by which this Government stands. That principle is adhering, accepting and honouring our obligations as a member of the international community and that is why we subscribe to this General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Doing so minimises resistance by those countries which are conducting dumping inquiries within their territories and by acceding to it as a code we become a member of the International Committee on Anti-Dumping Practices which subscribes to and takes further the international comity of nations and gives us advantages as well. 

 Dr EDWARDS (Berowra)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
The amendments circulated in my name relate to clauses 4 and 1 5, which read in part: 
Clause 4. 
1 ) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears- export price', in relation to goods exported to Australia, means- 
where the goods have been purchased by the importer (whether before or after exportation) and the purchase is an arms length transaction- the price paid or payable for the goods by the importer, other than any pan of that price that represents a charge in respect of the transport of the goods after exportation or in respect of any other matter arising after exportation; 
where the goods have been purchased by the importer (whether before or after exportation) and the purchase is not an arms length transaction, but the goods, in the condition in the condition in which they were exported, have been purchased from the importer by another person and the purchase by that other person is an arms length transaction- the price paid or payable for the goods by that person less- 
duties of Customs and sales tax paid or payable  on the goods; 
all costs, charges and expenses arising in relation to the goods after exportation; and 
the profit, if any, on the sale to that person or, where the Minister so directs, the amount calculated in accordance with such rate as the Minister, having regard to all the circumstances of the sale, specifies, in writing, as the rate that, for the purposes of this Act, is to be regarded as the rate of profit on the sale; or 
in any other case- the price that the Minister, having regard to all the circumstances of the exportation, specifies, in writing, would have been payable for the goods by the importer if they had been purchased by him and the purchase had been an arms length transaction; importer', in relation to goods exported to Australia, means the beneficial owner of the goods at the time of their arrival within the limits of the port or airport in Australia at which they are landed. 
Clause 15. 
Where the Minister receives a request under subsection (2) or (3) to refer a question to the Commission for inquiry and report, he shall, unless that question has been referred to the Commission for inquiry and report within the period of 2 years immediately preceding the request, refer to the question to the Commission for inquiry and report. 
I move: 
Clause 4. 
Paragraph (a), after 'goods' insert 'have been so exported otherwise than by the importer and '. 
Clause 4. 
Paragraph (b), after 'goods' insert 'have been so exported otherwise than by the importer and '. 
Clause 4. 
Paragraph (c), omit 'the importer', insert 'an importer'. 
Clause 15. 
In sub-clause (4), omit 'to' (first occuring). 
Perhaps I need not say a great deal about the amendments. I understand that officers from the Department have been available to honourable members opposite to explain the reasoning. 
-The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  came into the debate late. I touched on the reasons in the words I uttered at the conclusion of the second reading debate. If honourable members peruse the interpretation clause, clause 4, they will see that the final paragraph refers to commodity consignment transactions in any case other than those mentioned previously in the clause. There is a reference to importer'- I say this for the benefit of the honourable member for Wakefield- and the definition of 'importer' is as follows:  in relation to goods exported to Australia, means the beneficial owner of the goods at the time of their arrival within the limits of the port or airport in Australia at which they are landed. 
In practice the Government accepts that the transference of property as a matter of law passes from the exporter in some overseas country to a person in Australia only when the exporter's agent in Australia effects the sale. We could get a situation using that definition of importer' whereby the importer is also the exporter, so it is necessary to include certain words in the earlier part of the definition. The words we seek to have inserted are:  have been so exported otherwise than by the importer and ' 
That takes account of the fact that we could get a situation where the importer argued that he was the exporter. When it came to the Minister's job of determining an expert price the Minister could hardly do it with the importer saying: 'I am also the exporter'. The amendment draws attention to an ambiguity which on closer study has been revealed. The amendment to clause 15 is simply to correct a typographical error. 
I give the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  the assurance that he seeks- consistent of course, with reasonableness, because one cannot foresee every circumstance. As I thought I indicated to him in my reply to the second reading debate, that is our intent. Consistent with the maintenance of confidentiality, one has to make known or to publish representations so that, as I said earlier, the principle of natural justice can be followed. I also draw the honourable member's attention to clause 14 of the Bill, which is consistent with what I have said. With your leave,  Mr Chairman,  I will depart a little from what would be the normal course to be followed in a debate at the Committee stage. Clause 14 reads: 
The Minister shall not cause a notice to be published under any provision of this Act unless he is satisfied that the publication of the notice is not inconsistent with the obligations of Australia under any international agreement relating to traiffs or trade. 
I hope that that satisfies the honourable members for Wakefield. 
I have been advised of a piece of interesting history. It goes back into the history of the Parliamentary Counsel. I need not mention the honourable gentleman's name, but I am advised that the use of the word 'material' was objected to in earlier days because it was said not to be able to qualify and to act as an adjective, but rather related to a piece of material. For that reason, largely, the other expressions were used. That is said just in passing. Obviously, by way of a serious note, the 2 terms 'not insubstantial' and material ' mean the same thing. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals Nos 13 and 14 ( 1975). 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. These 
Proposals formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by Gazette notices during the last recess. These changes arise from the Government's decisions on recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on glass and glassware and the temporary assistance authority in its report on consumer electronic equipment and components. A comprehensive summary setting out the nature of the changes in the duty rates and the origin of each of the alterations contained in the Proposals is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although unconfirmed reports were received by Australia Police that some demonstrators may be armed outside Parliament House at the opening of Parliament on 28 February 1974, from observations and investigations by the Police, there was no evidence which substantiated the reports. 
See(l) above. 
From information received by the Australia Police and from information from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, it seemed possible that a demonstration might occur at the departmental headquarters at that time. 
A senior departmental officer considered it undesirable to accept an offer to place a uniformed Commonwealth Police Officer in the Department's office as this was considered likely to upset the staff. Nevertheless, police patrolled the area of the buildings at Woden. Subsequently, on 28 February 1974, A.C.T. Police attended at departmental offices, Woden, relative to an incident with three Aboriginal demonstrators in the First Assistant-Secretary's office. Commonwealth Police officers transported  Mr Charles  Perkins from Parliament House to the scene. Subsequently, at the scene, A.C.T. Police arrested one person for possession of an unlicensed pistol, an old-type revolver. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (4) On 27 March 1975 the former Commonwealth, Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory Police Forces were amalgamated to form the Australia Police within the new Department of Police and Customs. On 20 April 1975 the A.C.T. Police Association advised the Secretary of the Department that its members had resolved to work towards the successful implementation of the amalgamation. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Following comments made by the Magistrate in the Finke case heard in Alice Springs from 8-11 March 1975 representations were made to the Government to hold an enquiry into Aborigines and the administration of justice in the Northern Territory. The Government is closely examining these representations. 
If an enquiry is initiated every opportunity will be afforded to the Northern Territory division of the Australia Police to give evidence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I cannot give the assurances sought by the honourable member because with the Prime Minister's announcement on 27 March 1975 of the creation of the Department of Police and Customs, the honourable member 's question ceased to be applicable. 
The police forces of the Austalian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are now part of the Australia Police and have responsibility for all police functions in their respective regions. 
Each territorial force is operationally separate and headed by a Commissioner who reports to the interim Chief Commissioner of the Australia Police. 
The deliberations of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory, and the proposals for the creation of territory executives were borne in mind when the decision was made to form the Australia Police. It was felt that proper consideration of both these matters should not delay the establishment of what is essentially a federal law enforcement body of national significance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The recommendation of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory that responsibility for the A.C.T Police Force be transferred at an early stage to control by the Assembly was borne in mind when consideration was given to creation of the Department of Police and Customs. 
Responsibility for the A.CT. Police was one of several recommendations dealing with transfers of control made by the Committee in its 1974 Report on Self Government and Public Finance in the A.C.T. 
This Report is still under consideration by the Government. 
The establishment of the Department of Police and Customs does not prejudge any future recommendations that may be made by the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. Any such recommendations will be considered when they are received by the Government. 
The recommendations made by the Committee in its 1974 Report on Constitutional Development in the Northern Territory which are now under review because of cyclone Tracy, were given due consideration before the creation of the Department of Police and Customs was announced. I would point out, moreover, that the decision to establish the Department, one of the major objectives announced by  Mr Whitlam  in his policy speech of November 1972, was taken only after a careful and prolonged assessment of all the issues involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My inquiries indicate that 10 of these units have been imported during the past two years. 
1 understand all the units were entered free of import duty and 3 were exempted from sales tax. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

In 1972 a company submitted to the Department advance samples of toys which it intended to import. The Department was asked to determine the lead content of the paint used on the toys. The resultant analysis showed a level of lead in excess of that recommended in the then draft National Health and Medical Research Council standard relating to paints and it is believed the importer did not proceed with the importation. There has been no similar request since that time. 
See (2) above. 
I am concerned that such potentially dangerous toys could be imported into this country. However, the Department has been examining this problem for some time and in fact was represented on the Standards Association of Australia drafting committee for Australian Standard 1647-1974 Children's Toys and Playthings (Safety Requirements). Among other recommendations this standard limits the level of poisonous metal in paint used on toys. The Attorney-General 's Department is currently considering a proposal to prescribe that Standard as a consumer product safety standard under Section 62 of the Trade Practices Act. A complementary regulation is also being considered by the Department of Police and Customs for inclusion in the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
In March 1975, non-military output represented 50 per cent of the total value of output in Government Defence Factories. In September and March of 1974 the relative figures were 35 per cent and 22 per cent respectively. Nonmilitary output includes commercial work of a non-military nature, e.g., Boeing aircraft assemblies and civil versions of Nomad aircraft as well as work for Australian private industry. Military output includes defence equipment supplied to the Australian Defence Forces as well as that sold or given as aid to other countries, e.g. Ikara sold to Brazil. 
The total employment at these factories was 7648 in March 1975 and 8264 and 8515 in September and March 1974 respectively. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill contains 3 main proposals concerning the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory. The first makes provision for the Supreme Court to be constituted by a bench of not fewer than 3 judges when dealing with matters relating to the professional behaviour or conduct of a legal practitioner. The second proposal will enable the Court to be similarly constituted where a single judge considers that the proceedings are of sufficient importance to warrant this action. The third proposal makes specific provision for a change of venue in criminal proceedings before the Court. 
In 1974 the former Legislative Council of the Northern Territory passed the Legal Practitioners Ordinance of the Northern Territory. Section 5 1 of the Ordinance defines the Supreme Court, when dealing with disciplinary proceedings against a member of the profession, as meaning the Court comprising 3 judges sitting together. Proposed new section 13a of the Northern Territory Supreme Court Act will give effect to this section of the Ordinance. A similar provision exists in the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act. New section 13b will enable a judge to order that the jurisdiction of the Court in a particular matter be exercised by not fewer than 3 judges when he considers that such a procedure is desirable. This procedure may be invoked where important points of law are involved or where a question of law has been the subject of differing opinions expressed by two or more judges at different times. Proposed new section 13d of the Act prescribes the means of arriving at the decision of the Court in cases presided over by three or more judges if the judges are equally divided in opinion as to the decision. In such cases the opinion of the senior resident judge is to prevail. Where no resident judge is sitting, the opinion of the senior additional judge is to prevail. 
The amendment proposed by clause 9 will ensure an appeal lies to the High Court against sentence where an accused is committed for sentence to the Supreme Court and is sentenced by that Court. A similar provision is contained in section 52 (2) of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act which was inserted following the decision of the High Court in Jackson v. The Queen (1964 Australian Law Journal Reports, page 37). It decided that the expression 'convicted on indictment before the Supreme Court' in section 52 of the Act did not cover the case where a person was committed to the Supreme Court for sentence by a lower court. The same words appear in sub-section ( 1 ) of section 47 of the Northern Territory Supreme Court Act and the proposed amendment will rectify a deficiency in the Act. Recently, doubts have been expressed as to the power of the Supreme Court to order a change of venue in criminal proceedings before it. While there are grounds for arguing that the Court has an inherent jurisdiction in this area, proposed new sub-sections (8) and (9) of section 5 1 of the Act will put the position beyond doubt. 
The other amendments are of a minor nature or are merely consequential on those I have outlined. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Howard)  adjourned. 
In the spirit of this rather unusually friendly debate I offer some suggestions that lie behind the action of the Government and also comment in passing, perhaps not taking too much time, on some of the contributions made by the honourable members who have spoken. I thank honourable members on the opposite side who are my newfound friends. I am not quite sure of the reasons for the warmth in their welcome. They are not always so friendly. 
The gist of the matter is quite simple. It should not surprise honourable members that in the overall scheme of things the Parliamentary Counsel, as honourable members have said, performs a most important role. There comes at all times a question of priorities. Perhaps the most important question for any government is that of priorities. Priorities are sorted out in any government, of course, in the cut and thrust of debate, the healthy, warm exchange of views that takes place in a parliamentary party, our Caucus, the Opposition's party room, the committees that make up the parliamentary Party, the Cabinet and the legislation committee and the other committees of Cabinet. But in the overall scheme of things nothing could be more proper, certainly in my view, than that the Prime Minister should be given the role that is proposed under this amendment. No one can argue otherwise. I certainly do not argue otherwise. I have brought the measure forward. 
Some other matters were mentioned. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  mentioned the question of the 'Minister for the time being'. There is nothing novel in that. Indeed it is the correct way to do it. It is misleading to word legislation in any other way. In every Act of this Parliament responsibility is placed with a Minister. The Minister draws his responsibility from the administrative arrangements orders. There is nothing novel in that, nothing strange and nothing unusual. If the honourable gentleman has not been aware of this in the past perhaps I may draw it to his attention. It is unusual to write into an Act an identification or reference to a particular Minister by description; for example, the Attorney-General, the Minister for Police and Customs, the Minister for Housing, the Minister for Foreign Affairs or any other Minister. This is a system that probably could be improved upon because having regard to the flexibility that is necessary to be built into any modern system of government it is desirable to have the means whereby changes can from time to time take place. That has always been the case. It is unusual, it is the exception and not the rule, for one to refer to the Attorney-General or the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister in an Act of Parliament. That is the exception. The rule has always been that the Act refers to 'the Minister'. This amendment seeks to follow the rule. In that sense it is consistent. 
I shall say a few other words on the general importance of parliamentary drafting. No one recognises more than this Government the importance that is attached to the very essential and highly skilled profession of parliamentary drafting or parliamentary counsel. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  perhaps inadvertently- I know not- seemed to suggest that we had not made very much progress in relation to the consolidation of the statutes. He conceded that we had managed to improve the situation from what it was when we took office after 23 years of Liberal-National Country Party Government, or neglect. I do not want to be political but he made some grudging admissions. I suggest that we have made far greater progress than he is prepared to concede. When the honourable member talks of consolidation he will recall that the Commonwealth statutes were last consolidated in 1950. It is now 1975. I know that the honourable gentleman agrees with me because I see him nodding. I remember being in practice at the Bar as late as 1969 or 1970 and asking people in the Parliament: 'Why on earth cannot there be a consolidation of the Commonwealth statutes? What is wrong? They are 23 years out of date'. The cost to a litigant in having his lawyer try to find the law so that he can advise the client on the law is enormous and unnecessarily high. But the answer always came back to me: 'It is more difficult than you think. It is a very difficult problem. It is very hard. It is over there somewhere but you cannot put it right'. The situation was not put right until we came to government. As the honourable gentleman knows, the consolidation has now begun. Four volumes have emerged and the fifth is about to appear. I understand that there will be about 20 volumes. 
For the first time in some 25 years Australians will have the statutes of this Parliament in a single set of books, readily available to anyone who cares to go to a law library. So we have made enormous progress. The honourable gentleman also mentioned the desirability of consolidating an Act, when an amendment has been made to it, within, I think, 2 weeks of the amendment being made. I think that he appreciates- I think the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  mentioned it-the parliamentary counsel, distinguished gentlemen as they are, are in the House listening to the debate. 
One of them was good enough to send me a note, and I have no hesitation in reading it out. It is in reply to the point raised by the honourable member for Mackellar. It states that as a practical proposition under present printing conditions it is just not possible to do what  Mr Wentworth  has suggested, but with the introduction of the new computer system which is now in hand it will certainly be possible and it will be one of the objects of that new system- in other words, press button reprints. 
I hope that this will be another achievement in that ever-growing list of achievements of this Government. It should please the honourable member for Mackellar because he is quite right- I agree with him- in pointing out that the law has always been too difficult for people to find. But in the past technology and expense have been a problem. We have managed to overcome this in large measure. I yield to the temptation to say to honourable members when they ask 'Why can you not do this?', or 'Why can you not do that?', that they did not do that for 23 years. I also say to honourable members opposite that the resources which have to be devoted and which we are devoting to improving and putting right the situation are part of the Government's expenditure which has to be incurred and which honourable members opposite always abuse us for incurring. Honourable members opposite sit there and ask: 'Why do you not do something?' They know that it involves the expenditure of money. We do something we spend the money, and then they criticise us for spending the money. We do the very thing that they want done and yet they will not accept the responsibility for the actions which produce the results which they desire. 
I shall not take up much more time. I will not deal with the proposed amendment at this stage. I will speak on it at the Committee stage. The Government will not accept the amendment for the reaons which I shall give then. There are no other matters that I wish to put. I welcome the support from the Opposition for the Parliamentary Counsel Bill. We on the Government side believe that it is an improvement for the reasons which I have given. Overall priorities require that responsibility should rest with the Prime Minister. We believe that to be an improvement. Another matter was touched on by the honourable member for Wentworth. He suggested that perhaps there was some difficulty with my predecessor. I say that that is not the case. My predecessor,  Mr Justice  Murphy as he now is, or  Senator Murphy  as he was, was probably the greatest law reformer, the most active and ambitious law reformer, with positive results to show for it, whom this country has ever known. Although the criticism was muted and oblique it was there and it required an answer. This measure flows not from any style or way of  Mr Justice  Murphy in bringing about the magnificent achievements which he brought about in law reform in Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
Section 3 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: '3. The functions of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel are- 
the drafting or proposed laws for introduction into either House of the Parliament and of amendments of proposed laws that are being considered by either House of the Parliament; 
the drafting of instruments that are to be given the force of law by an Act; and 
functions incidental to any of the preceding functions.'. 
The Government cannot 0 accept the amendment although of course it recognises the earnest desire of backbenchers, of whatever party they belong to, to have additional facilities. Indeed, in relation to that point I do not think it can be denied that this Government has given more facilities to backbenchers than has ever been the case in the past. What honourable members opposite seek now is to have written into a Government measure a requirement that a section of not less than two of the professional staff shall be seconded to draft proposed laws, amendments and instruments at the request of members of the Parliament in priority to services for Ministers. The Government recognises that there are problems in this area and it hopes to put them right. The facilities of parliamentary counsel, as has been conceded by the Opposition, are readily available and are always on offer. That has not been denied and I have not heard any real complaint about it. Whenever I am approached by Opposition members from the back bench or the front bench seeking some kind of access to parliamentary counsel or some drafting assistance, insofar as it is humanly possible we make it available. There are difficulties of which we are aware. For example, there is the question of confidentiality which occasionally poses a possible problem, but it is only a possible problem. So far as I know it has never come to any concrete situation which has caused embarrassment. 
It is a problem that calls for a solution but the Government argues that this is not the way to solve it. It may be that the way is to provide drafting assistance for back benchers from any Party- Government or Opposition- outside the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. It may be that parliamentary draftsmen should be attached to the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library where they would be readily available. I have this under study and have been having discussions for some time with officers from the Office of Parliamentary Counsel to determine the best way to do it, but to write it into the Act in this way would in our view be quite wrong. Circumstances change all the time. The Opposition nominates two professional staff but why not four, or ten? Why not one? The need varies and it does not seem appropriate to deal with the matter in the manner suggested. I suppose I could say that one could not but admire the sense of opportunism of the Opposition Parties in seeing this measure come forward and saying: 'Perhaps we can wring out some little point'. That may have entered their minds. I do not want to be unkind. 
It is suggested that I should not be ungracious, but the smile on the face of my friend indicates that perhaps I am closer to the mark than he is prepared to concede. There may be some gamesmanship of that sort. Underlying it there is, of course, a real need. The Government is aware of it and has instructed parliamentary counsel to be available whenever they can. As one honourable member has pointed out, this Government has made more progress in this regard than any previous government. It was touched on by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  when he said that we had separated the drafting work that is done on delegated legislation, on ordinances and regulations, with considerable success because the backlog which we inherited has been reduced. The legislative achievement of the Government is enormous. The record shows it and parliamentary counsel deserve as much credit as anyone. I invite honourable members to look at their tired eyes and their features and to consider the hours they work trying to keep up with the Government 's legislative program. 
-Just look at them. They are sitting behind me. They are very hard working group of men. It is not a glamorous occupation but a highly skilled occupation requiring enormous dedication and scholastic ability. The Government cannot accept the amendment in this form although I give the assurance to honourable members that we have the matter under study. We suggest that the solution probably lies in having draftsmen outside the Office of Parliamentary Counsel because a conflict of interest situation could otherwise arise. 
-Very briefly, in the short time left to the House tonight, may I thank honourable members on both sides of the House who have supported the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill or, at least, the broad thrust of the measure. I especially welcome the contribution of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  who certainly said- conceded, if I may put it that way- that Australia would soon have one of the best systems of administrative law in the world. The Government takes some pride in that fact. While I am on this aspect I should also say that one recognises that the honourable member for Wentworth when Solicitor-General played an honourable and active part in relation to the Kerr Committee report which, in some measure, contributed to this legislation. But one can also sympathise with the efforts of the Opposition to somehow claim that they produced the legislation. One knows that merely instituting an inquiry does not mean that legislation will come about. One saw, through 23 years of neglect, what little legislation of this sort came about. 
Perhaps so, but it is valid. The record proves that. One can trace the ancestors of the legislation right back to the French conseil d'etat. The French have had this for years. For many years English jurists ridiculed the idea that English law needed a system of administrative law. The early jurists said there was no such thing as administrative law in English common law. The great Dicey said that as much, as strongly and as persistently as anyone. Yet today we know that the average citizen is adversely affected by hundreds and perhaps thousands of administrative discretions exercised by public servants and Ministers through a delegated form of legislation throughout Australia. 
The Bland Committee report collects many of these together in perhaps 40 or 50 pages at the end of the report. There are thousands of them, at first impression, and often they are unknown to the ordinary citizen. The ordinary citizen is as vitally affected by the operation of this law as he is by the operation of, say, the criminal law, the motor traffic law, the law of negligence or the law of defamation. He comes vitally into contact with this administrative law and yet, in the past, it has been a hotchpotch. It has been a mess and an area of confusion where lawyers rarely went because few of them understood it and only fools entered. We hope that those days are passing because with the enactment of this Bill a system of rational dispensation of justice for the first time will be introduced into this unfortunate- one might use the word chaotic- system which we have had for so long. 
Many people have played a part. I recognised and acknowledged the part played by the honourable member for Wentworth who spoke earlier. Amendments will be proposed by the Opposition. We will accept some of them and we will reject others. In the Committee stage I will move amendments myself. The Opposition and honourable members generally will recognise that in the short time this Government has been in office it has introduced a large amount of legislation. This is a continuing process. It goes on even in the course of the introduction of a Bill. I have no doubt that it certainly will continue when this Bill goes to the Senate. But I welcome the support and the tributes which have been paid by the Opposition in relation to the measure. We can look forward in a short time to a rather historic moment being reached in Australian law. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and committed pro forma. 
Progress reported. 
I have seen reports as indicated by the honourable member. One can only be aghast at the proposition that is involved in what seems to be under way. The draft letter seems to have been sent out to subscribers with the invitation that they use it as a guide to write to their members of Parliament. The letter lists some measures that they should seek to have opposed. They include national superannuation, Commonwealth Public Service superannuation, national compensation, the Australian Government Insurance Office, corporation and securities industry control and other matters. One wonders what a great corporation like the Australian Mutual Provident Society has to fear when it opposes measures like the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill which is designed to stop abuses, white collar crime and corporate crime. One wonders what a great corporation like that is concerned about. One wonders what other corporations which oppose such measures also have to hide. It is relevant to the answer that I would like to give that I refer to a question that you,  Mr Speaker,  ruled out of order a moment ago. Implicit in the federal structure of Australia and the fact that Australian laws, companies and securities are fragmented and they cannot cover the field - 
Like most honourable members, I have had my attention drawn to the reports of the House of Lords decision. As far as I know, no official report has reached Australia yet, but there is a report in the 'Times ' which one can assume to be accurate. The facts, as I understand them, were that a gentleman was alleged to have brought some friends home to his house and invited them to have intercourse with his wife, telling them that they were not to be put off by her protests because that was her way and that she really enjoyed protesting and the act of intercourse. The question went to the House of Lords following a conviction. The question of the appeal was the question of the reasonableness or the propriety of the judge's direction on whether the belief of the men that they had the woman's consent was reasonable. The trial judge had so directed. I shall quote from the decision of the House of Lords what Lord Hailsham had to say on this point because it may be of interest to honourable members. He said: 
Mens rea - 
For the non-lawyers, that means guilty mind- meant 'guilty'or 'criminal mind' and if the mental element in rape was not knowledge but intent, then to insist that a belief must be reasonable to excuse was to insist that either the accused was to be found guilty of intending to do that which in truth he did not intend to do, or that his state of mind, though innocent of evil intent, could convict him if it were honest but not rational. 
The reasoning in the House of Lords decision is probably common to a number of State jurisdictions in Australia. The precedents differ. For example, the precedents in New South Wales differ from the precedents in Victoria. This brings me back to the point I tried to make earlier about fragmentation of laws in Australia. What I think is of considerable concern to women, women's groups and women's movements in Australia about the effect of the decision is the degree of corroboration which judges are required to direct a jury about in rape cases- that it is unwise to convict unless there is an element of corroboration. In this sense, under the law historically and as it stands today the prosecutrix, the woman who has been raped or claims to have been raped, is put on the same par as an accomplice, because the same rule applies to an accomplice in a crime; the judges are required to give a similar direction there. That, I think, is the most unfortunate aspect of it as it is now becoming known to the Australian non-legal community. 
I think the other aspect that has to be borne in mind- and this is where it becomes unfair- is that whereas a prosecutrix, a lady who claims to have been raped, can be cross-examined on her previous sexual life with other men- all her antecedents can be brought in, in that regard. 
Yes, I can give the lie to the rumours. They have been brought to my notice, as I am sure they have been brought to the notice of many honourable members. Under rule 299, 1 think it is, of the divorce rules, I caused inquiries to be made of all State registries and the registry of the Australian Capital Territory. We did not make a search in the Northern Territory, as that seemed unnecessary. There is no truth at all in the rumours that have been circulated. 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry has provided the following answer 
The company approached  Dr Cairns  early in August 1974. Subsequently a number of Ministers, including  Dr Cairns  and  Mr Enderby,  then Minister for Manufacturing Industry took part in discussions with the Managing Director,  Mr J.  D.Abell. 
and (3) Yes. It was agreed that the company's Waterloo site, and also a number of vehicles, would be purchased by the government as part of a program of restructuring of Leyland 's operations which would avoid hardship to large numbers of employees. 
to (10) The following information has been supplied by the Department of Services and Property. 
(a) The value of the land and improvements thereon was assessed by qualified valuers of the Australian Taxation Office on the basis of current market value, (b) The plant was not included in the purchase. Therefore it was not valued. 
61 acres 2 roods 1744 perches (24.93 hectares) were acquired at a price of $ 19.5m inclusive of improvements. This gives an average cost per acre (improved) of $3 16,520. 
and (7) The property was acquired under the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act for defence purposes and comprises a complex of administrative, industrial and ancillary buildings eminently suited to that purpose. 
The land is zoned general industrial. 
There were communications with the New South Wales Planning and Environment Commission and the South Sydney Municipal Council regarding zoning aspects. 
No. 
-My attention has been drawn to the circular to which the honourable member refers. Indeed, it was the subject, in a different way, of a question asked last week. One wonders what that great corporation, the Australian Mutual Provident Society, is concerned about in the proposal to amalgamate the Australian Capital Territory Police with the Commonwealth Police, the Northern Territory Police and perhaps 50 or so gentlemen who do narcotics work in the Department of Police and Customs. One of the most distasteful aspects of the whole exercise was the request to members of the staff who received the document to write to their member of Parliament, but not on the company letterhead. In other words, the invitation was to deceive members of the Parliament. 
Opposition members- Oh! 
I put that to honourable members. It was being put to the staff that honourable members should be deceived; that they should receive letters as though they came with a spontaneity about them which was not the case; that the letters should come without revealing the influence and the source of the influence that led to their being sent. One wonders again what on earth that corporation is concerned about. One sees the list of subjects mentioned- the corporations and securities industry, which I think was the subject of the question last week; a national companies Act; a national compensation Act; and indeed' the Australian police. They have little in common in many ways. The overwhelming inference that I suggest honourable members would draw is that this is just a net thrown at large over all the recent initiatives of this Government taken over the last few months. The AMP Society invited its employees to write attacking the initiatives, no matter what the subject, and to criticise them as in some way being wrong. 
It should be noted,  Mr Speaker,  that the honourable gentleman - 
-The final question adverted to by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro was: Was it just a blanket attack on Government policies? The answer to that must be yes. But the honourable member for Lyne, who interjects - 
I will not speak at any great length to the amendment which has been circulated in my name. I rise principally to support the clause in its present form. It provides that there should be 12 months separation as evidence of an irretrievable breakdown of a marriage. I put forward the amendment in my name as introducing an essentially important additional feature of divorce law; and that is that adult people should be given the credit and the dignity of being able to make decisions for themselves. That involves an element of responsibility that has laid deep in our criminal law and in all branches of our law in the past, apart perhaps from the law of divorce. In my view it should find a place in the law of divorce. I say that it applies only if there are no children or if the parties have made proper arrangements for the children. That is an essential requirement which is written into the other requirements as well. Everyone assumes that. So I simply say that if the parties are adult, and they have to be, and if they are responsible, and they have to be, the parties are entitled to say: 'Our marriage is at an end. It is a matter for us'. The best possible evidence of an irretrievable breakdown is that the parties, as adults, have decided that the marriage is finished. If there are no children to be considered society has little interest in the matter. The matter is one for the parties. The clause provides that 12 months separation is evidence of an irretrievable breakdown. I believe that that is the best way. It is simple, it is honest and it avoids any attempt to bring fault or blameworthiness back into the law. That is the fault with each of the other amendments to clause 48. I say that with great respect to the learned gentlemen who have put them forward- the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)-  because each proposition relates to the behaviour of the parties. Reflect on what behaviour of the parties means. One party must say: 'I want a divorce'. No particulars need be given. The situation will revert to the lengthy petitions of 25, 30 or 50 pages stating why one person says that the other person's behaviour justifies a divorce. The whole purpose of this reform is to make divorce simple and cheap. 
While the clause remains in its present form it is possible for an application form, which takes the name of the old petition, to be perhaps on threequarters of a page. It will set out the simple facts that are relevant. One of the great disadvantages of the present law is that because petitions must set out the particulars of cruelty, say, which relates to the behaviour of the parties, the petitions go for page after page- 25 or 30 pages. Eminent counsel are employed to settle them because they lead to suggestions of provocation, whether there was some background circumstance which led to the behaviour and who was really to blame. 
We cannot consider one person's behaviour except against the backdrop of the other person 's behaviour. Is the single act of adultery behaviour which would bring into play this law? With the uncertainty that would result, there would be a far worse situation than under the present law. At least the present law states that adultery is a ground for divorce. Behaviour can mean anything. If in the opinion of my wife I go to the pub too often and she wants to allege that that is behaviour that entitles her to bring the marriage to an end, am I to argue that 4 times a week, not 5 times, is enough? Is that what the courts are to be concerned with? What I put to honourable gentlemen is that once an attempt is made to bring in behaviour, worded however it might be, you bring back fault. You bring in the situation where the parties recriminate against each other. Guilt springs into existence again. It affects employers, neighbours and the children themselves. It affects everything and discolours the whole problem of trying to wind up marriage, where it has to be wound up, with a certain sense of dignity. 
I thank the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  for his contribution to this debate. It is in line with my own thinking on the subject. I also congratulate the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  on his understanding of the problem. I lament the sense of outrage that was directed at the honourable member for Griffith by some of his parliamentary colleagues who are lawyers. It is true that the honourable member is not a lawyer. The lawyers in this chamber do themselves a great disservice when they spring to the defence of some aspects of legal procedures in the way they do. With great respect to my good and learned friend the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  I suggest that he tends to forget how clients see the legal process. Lawyers love it. For us it is the best of all worlds, but clients often see it through quite a different window. It is that sort of thinking that has led to the move to create a Family Court. 
I will tell the honourable member afterwards, if he wants to know. This proposition that there should be a Family Court of Australia finds opposition from people who either defend the law because it is the best of all possible worlds or take some kind of extreme 
State rights position; but the reality surely is, as was put by the honourable member for Deakin, the honourable member for Griffith and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  on the Opposition side, that much needs to be done to improve the situation. The changes that we have proposed to the law are substantive changes. They will make it possible for divorce and family matters to be resolved in a simple way, an easy way, an informal way and a way that removes the cant, the hypocrisy and the terror that in the minds of some people are associated with the legal process. Do I have to remind my legal colleagues of the trappings of the law for a simple undefended divorce- witnesses staying outside, wigs and gowns, counsel, all the paraphernalia that puts terror into the minds of ordinary people when they go in there? That is not the way it should be done. The experience of South Australia, as was put by the honourable member for Angas, has been a beacon for Australia in this regard. 
The honourable member protesteth too much. 
He protesteth too much. The honourable member for Angas, speaking as a non-lawyer, knows of the success of the family court in South Australia where informality reigns, where people are able to go and have their family problems adjusted and assisted, and where divorces are given when they are required in a civilised and dignified way. May I remind honourable members of some of the features of the Family Court set up by this Bill. By reason of training, experience and personality, the judges of the Family Court have to be suitable persons to deal in matters of family law. Let me put this to honourable gentlemen opposite: The average barrister who is appointed to a divorce jurisdiction in New South Wales has little experience of this sort at all. He is an adversary advocate. He specialises in the adversary techniques, and that is what it is all about. He knows now to crossexamine, he knows how to lead evidence and he knows how to do it very well if he is good at his trade. He is not good at conciliating, and this is what we are after. This is what the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs had in mind. The idea that there should be a family court came as a non-party measure. It came not from the Government. It came after a lot of study in the Senate. It was thought that there must be a better way, and it is written into the legislation. 
Those who are supporters of States rights, like the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  forget in their hysteria clause 41, which requires the government of the day to try to reach agreement with the States to have the States set up their family courts. Surely that is the answer. It would be only in the absence of agreement or something of that sort that the Family Court of Australia would function in this exclusive way. 
-Genuine efforts will be made to reach agreement, and that is in the Bill as it is now before us. One feels a sense of outrage on the part of the lawyers present that this best of all possible worlds is about to be taken away from them, that this best of all possible worlds is about to be changed. It was changed half an hour ago when the grounds of adultery, and cruelty; condonation, connivance and collusion; and discretion statements were all removed, as were petitions 50 pages in length for which eminent counsel charged hundreds of dollars. That has gone; and good riddance. 
Question put: 
That clause 2 1 be agreed to. 
I might say, to assist the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  that I will be moving an amendment to the same effect when we get to that clause. 
I shall speak very briefly because my learned friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  invites me to do so. The question is not one of compassion. Judicial separation largely has fallen into disuse over many years. It is just not used today. I do not speak for the Government on this measure; it is not a Government proposal, as honourable members appreciate. What is proposed is completely inconsistent with what we have done to date, and properly so. If we are to have irretrievable breakdown after 12 months separation, one can hardly write in at the same time a provision for a decree of judicial separation. That seems to be absurd. Under the existing law- I think I am correct in saying- a number of provisions require people to institute a petition for principal relief if they intend to seek ancillary relief. Perhaps one of the reasons why those 7 people began proceedings for a judicial separation was that they were looking for ancillary relief. That provision is no longer part of this Bill; it is not now necessary. I oppose the amendment- that is all I can do- on the basis that the injunctive form of relief is intended to take care of the situation. 
I would have thought so. It can be done. Why should one spouse be able to say to another, as presumably is in the honourable member's mind: 'You shall not have a divorce. Because of some religious view I hold I will not allow you to have a divorce. I will keep you married to me. ' 
Oh no, and it can be used for blackmail, more often than not. 
I think it can be used in that way. This amendment seems to go right against the spirit of what we are trying to do. We are trying to remove the antagonism which arises because the law can be used in that way. In other words, if the whole thrust of the proposal is 12 months separation, marriage could be put to rest in a civilised, decent way. This amendment is completely inconsistent because it says, in effect: 'You shall not dissolve the marriage. You shall continue the marriage when one person wants to '. I argue that that attitude is completely inconsistent. It goes back to an earlier period in our history, a period of time that we have long left behind us. It would not be a productive measure at all. I oppose it. 
I move circulated amendment No. 10. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I wish to reply very briefly to a number of points which have been made. As the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  pointed out, 5 minutes is not a great deal of time; but let me say this: The 5-minute rule has been a very salutary and useful rule in this debate. 
I will not waste too much time on it, but I think that the other points can be handled quite quickly. We would not be in this position of having succeeded so well with this legislation if the 5-minute rule had not been imposed. 
-That depends upon the attitude one takes. I would argue that we have succeeded particularly well. An enormous amount of misunderstanding is being offered on this subject by some honourable gentlemen. My good friend the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  who has just sat down, seems to suggest that if this legislation becomes law an Australian who is married will be able to go abroad and marry polygamously in country A, perhaps again in country B, and again in country C. The honourable member suggests that a person may be married a number of times. That is not the case. For the law of marriage in this country one looks to the Marriage Act. The basic common law and statutory description of marriage today is pretty much as it was declared in a very ancient case, Hyde v. Hyde, with which the lawyer members of the Parliament would be familiar. In that case the judges espoused the principles of voluntary union between a man and a woman for life to the mutual and complete exclusion of all others. It is so long since I studied the case that I have forgotten the precise words. It was only in respect of that sort of relationship, so the early courts held, that in questions of domicile and questions of matrimonial relief such relief could be given. The laws were progressively relaxed. 
One case that springs to my mind is one that would be known to some honourable gentlemen, that of Khan v. Khan, which took account of people who are envisaged as being covered by this clause, that is, those people who come from other countries and have married in a polygamous society or a society that is potentially polygamous. The Supreme Court of Australia took account of the fact that a marriage could be potentially polygamous. The issue involved was as follows: If a marriage was potentially polygamous and the person involved migrated from a country that had a different concept from ours on the law of marriage, would that person be entitled to obtain a divorce? Was it a marriage at all? The courts adapted themselves to the change. What this legislation does is to take the position one small stage further. It states that a person who has come to this country, having married overseas where the law permits a polygamous marriage, should still be entitled to the benefits of this legislation. He has only one wife. He does not have 6 wives. 
Because under our laws it is just not permitted. Under the laws of the country in which that person previously resided it might have been permitted while he was still in that country. But this legislation would still recognise his entitlements to relief and to bring proceedings under the legislation. It would not be a defence for his spouse to say that the marriage was not a marriage at all under Australian law. This Bill just takes the position that extra stage. 
I am coming to the little matter raised by the honourable member for Moreton. The learned gentleman talks about State laws- Testator's Family Maintenance Acts, State workers compensation laws and a whole range of particular State laws that give an entitlement to a person if that person has a particular status. It might be a de facto status or a married status. The status is usually denned in the particular statute of the State. The present law for the purposes of divorce is to be found in the 1959 Matrimonial Causes Act. As I have said, the case of the Khan v. Khan and cases like that permit matrimonial relief to be given in a potentially polygamous situation. That does not affect in any way the New South Wales Workers Compensation Act, the New South Wales Testator's Family Maintenance Act or whatever may be the appropriate Queensland statutes that deal with the granting of some kind of relief. Neither does this clause, different as it is in a mild way from the existing law, affect such statutes. 
It does not affect them in any way at all. Clause 6 states: 
For the purpose of proceedings under this Act -  in other words, for the purposes of family law and matrimonial causes-  a union in the nature of a marriage which is, or has at any time been - 
That is the difference. The existing law relates to a situation which is potentially polygamous. In other words, a person can come to Australia, having married in Indonesia and having only one wife, although in that country he could have had more wives. Under the existing law in Australia, such a person could obtain a divorce. All this legislation states is that if a person comes to this country he should still be entitled to a divorce, even though the marriage may be more than potentially polygamous. In fact, it may be polygamous but such a person can still obtain a divorce. It would be quite wrong to have the position otherwise. 
I think the clause is in identical terms to existing section 9 of the Matrimonial Causes Act. I have never heard the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  complain about the operation of that section. 
-That does not matter. I have never heard the honourable gentleman complain about it. Perhaps this is an appropriate time to express a thought which is becoming obvious to a number of honourable members at the moment, that is, that some honourable gentlemen who in some ways failed in their opposition to this Billnot all, and I look at my good friend the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)-  are now determined to stall and bluster and talk - 
-I put it again. It is becoming increasingly apparent. The ladies and gentlemen will be chosen with the same skill and care as were the ladies and gentlemen who sit on the counselling associations which serve under the existing Matrimonial Causes Act. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 14. 
1 ) Where proceedings for a dissolution of marriage have been instituted, or financial or custodial proceedings have been instituted by a party to a subsisting marriage, it is the duty of the Judge or magistrate constituting the court and of every legal practitioner representing a party to give consideration, from time to time, to the possibility of a reconciliation of the parties. 
If, in such proceedings, it appears at any time to the Judge or magistrate from the evidence in the proceedings or the attitude of the parties, or of either of them, that there is a reasonable possibility of such a reconciliation, the Judge or magistrate may- 
adjourn the proceedings to afford the parties an opportunity to consider a reconciliation; 
with the consent of those parties, interview them in chambers, with or without counsel, as the Judge thinks proper, with a view to effecting a reconciliation; and 
if he thinks it desirable to do so, nominate- 
a marriage counsellor or an approved marriage counselling organization; or 
in special circumstances, some other suitable person or organization, to assist those parties in considering a reconciliation. 
Where it appears from an application for dissolution of a marriage that the parties have been married for less than 2 years preceding the date of filing of the application, the court shall not hear the proceedings unless the court is satisfied that- 
the parties have considered a reconciliation with the assistance of a marriage counsellor, an approved marriage guidance organization or some other suitable person or organization nominated by the Director of Counselling and Welfare; or 
there are special circumstances by reason of which the hearing should proceed. 
Circulated amendments. (20a)  (Mr Peacock)-  In sub-clause ( 1 ) after 'for' insert 'a separation order or'. 

 (Mr Enderby)-In sub-clause (2) (b) after 'Judge', insert 'or magistrate'. 

 (Mr Enderby)-In sub-clause (6) (a) after 'Welfare', insert' of the Family Court'. 

 (Mr Wilson)- After 'application', second appearing, insert 'or where there is a child of the marriage who has not attained the age of 1 6 years '. 
Let me deal firstly with the point raised by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  One can be completely in agreement with him, of course, on what he seeks to achieve. However, let me put something to him. He did concede the enormous difficulty that would flow from the extra counselling work that would be involved, and that is extreme. The assessment given to me, and it may have been given to the honourable member, is that on the 1973 Australian divorce statistics- unfortunately, they are increasing all the time- it has been estimated that this counselling would involve an additional 9000 cases, with all the consequences of that. I think this fact has to be borne in mind: Clause 14 is far stronger in its attempt to bring about the parties having resort to conciliation proceedings where children are involved than the existing provision in section 43 of the Matrimonial Causes Act. If one looks at the language of section 43 of the existing law one finds that proceedings are not to be brought within 3 years without the leave of the court, but the same burden is not placed on the court to be satisfied that the children are well cared for as is found in clause 14 of this Bill. 
I also suggest to the honourable member for Sturt that if he reads clause 14- stronger, as it is, than the old section 43- together with clause 12 of the present Bill, which refers to a child of a marriage who is under 18 years of age, he will see that the Bill enables the court, of its own motion or at the request of either party, to order that the parents attend a conference with a welfare officer to discuss the welfare of their child and try to resolve any differences between them concerning the matter. That is additional to the provision that the honourable member for Sturt read out and additional to the existing law. It is far better, far stronger. There is also the right of the child or children to have counselling of its or their own. That is another novel step forward. Of course, there is also the provision which has been written into this Bill and which has found a place in the existing law, that is, that the court shall not pronounce a decree nisi unless it is satisfied that proper, reasonable, satisfactory arrangements have been made for the children. That is provided for, as I remember it, in section 7 1 of the Matrimonial Causes Act. That provision has found a place in clause 63 of this Bill. So I suggest to the honourable member for Sturt that the other clauses of the Bill more than make up forcertainly go towards meeting- the concern that he has expressed, which was about something that worries all of us. 
I turn to the point mentioned by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  In this respect also the clause is a substantial improvement upon section 43 of the present Act. The clause says, of course, that the court shall not hear the proceedings- which is very strong languageunless the court is satisfied- someone has to put the facts before the court- that the parties have considered a reconciliation. It is very difficult to make people conciliate. The law often approaches these problems in different ways. When it is desirous to have people conciliate one can inform them of their rights and inform them that certain facilities are available. One can say: There is a welfare officer, a psychologist and a child welfare expert down the corridor. You can go and see them if you want to do so'. But we know from experience that all too often people do not do so. This clause actually requires the parties to have their minds drawn to the possibility of reconciliation and to have considered it. It goes a lot further than the existing law has gone. I do not know what the honourable gentleman has in mind as to how much further he wants to take the matter. He might want to provide that the parties have reasonably considered the matter or that they have considered it in depth, but one cannot make them take the advice. I would suggest that the clause goes as far as is reasonably practicable for the subject matter to be put in that way. 
Question put: 
That amendment No. 23  (Mr Wilson's amendment)  be agreed to. 
I think the proper answer to give to the honourable gentleman is that this Bill is not yet law. It was introduced into the Senate some time in 1973 and it has had the most exhaustive study by members of Parliament since that time: In and out of the Parliament, debate, references to a Standing Committee - 
-No, not by us. I am not having a go at the honourable member for Moreton. He is very sensitive. 
I am just putting to the honourable member that one has to bear in mind that this Bill is not yet law. Until last night one has not been able to say, with any degree of confidence, that indeed it would become law. Certainly until last night the whole provision in clause 21- the creation of the Family Court of Australia- was open to a considerable amount of uncertainty. It was at risk. The honourable gentleman knows that if he asks me to give him a list of people, or a list of people I have in mind that I have plucked out of the air overnight, I cannot. 
-No, of course not. I cannot name them. But the clause is clear. I do not want to spend time reading it but there is the formal part which states that the judge shall be appointed by the Governor-General- of course, on advice; that he shall not be removed except by the normal method for the removal of judges; and that he shall not be appointed as a judge unless he has one of the three sets of qualifications: That is, unless - 
he is or has been a Judge of another court created by the Parliament or of a court of a State-  and so on, or unless- and this is the one the honourable gentleman obviously has in mind - 
by reason of training, experience and personality, he is a suitable person to deal with matters of family law. 
It would be open there to appoint a person who did not hold the qualifications set out in paragraph (a) of sub-clause (2). One knows- and I certainly hold the view- that lawyers have had the most experience with dissolving marriages. Lawyers, particularly barristers, perhaps have had more experience than anyone else with settling ancillary relief- custody and property matters that are in dispute between a husband and wife. There is good reason for that. The legal profession has always had a monopoly of doing this sort of work. It may be that there has been good reason for this in the past. This Bill does not continue the monopoly as a matter of law. Let there be no doubt about that. 
I would ask honourable gentlemen to take into account as well that there are any number of qualified people in the community who might not satisfy the test of having been a judge, or having been enrolled as a legal practitioner of the High Court of Australia or of a supreme court of a State or a Territory for not less than 5 years, who would be suitable through experience in welfare work, counselling work or social work. I say what I am about to say to the honourable gentleman, my good friend, with the greatest of respect: Lawyers should not look with disdain on the other intellectual disciplines. Other courses than law are being offered today in the universities and there are other people in the community who serve the community, as lawyers do. All the Government has in mind- I should say that it is what I have in mind because I remind myself that this is not a Government Bill; this is a Bill that came from the Senate after a free vote - 
-Quite so, but I suggest to the honourable gentleman that this provision is per.fectly proper and desirable. If he wants to continue the monopoly of the legal profession in that regard let him say so. I personally think that there are talent, experience and qualifications of a professional kind in the community that could well be available to be drawn upon and put to considerable use. 
I have assisted the honourable gentleman as much as I can. I read the words, as he reads the words, and that is what they appear to say. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 23 agreed to. 
Clause 24 agreed to. 
Clause 25 agreed to. 
Clauses 26 to 36- by leave- taken together. 
I put again to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  that this is not a Government measure. 
It is perfectly all right. I am not running away from that side of it at all. This  is a Bill on which honourable members have a free vote. Clause 34 gives a wide discretion to the court and confirms the power of the court in relation to matters in which it has jurisdiction to make orders and to direct the issues of writs of such kinds as the court thinks appropriate. A relevancy question would arise there. The clause also enables particular writs and orders, including new kinds of writs and orders, to be prescribed without prejudice to the general power of the court in the matter. 
There is relatively little experience in family court work in Australia. The only family court that has been in existence for any period of time- and indeed that court for only a short time- is the South Australian Family Court. That court has been universally applauded as having been a very successful experiment, one which obviously influenced a number of members of the Senate, from which this Bill came, one which obviously influenced a number of honourable members in this chamber who now consider the Bill, and one which led last night to the rejection of the move against the family court provisions. But it is in the nature of a new type of process that new remedies will be necessary. With the emphasis being placed on informality and on a new approach to solving the problems of the family a wide discretion is being given to the judges who make up the court to devise the writs and the orders that they will be able to use. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 37 agreed to. 
Clause 38 agreed to. 
Clause 39. 
1 ) Subject to this Part, a person may institute a matrimonial cause under this Act- 
in the Family Court; or 
b ) in the Supreme Court of a State or a Territory. 
Proceedings for a decree of dissolution of marriage may be instituted under this Act by a party to the marriage if, at the date on which the application for the decree is filed in a court, either party to the marriage- 
is an Australian citizen; 
is domiciled in Australia; or 
is ordinarily resident in Australia and has been so resident for 1 year immediately preceding that date. 
Proceedings of a kind referred to in any of paragraphs (a) to (e) of the definition of 'matrimonial cause' in subsection 4(1), other than proceedings for a decree of dissolution of marriage, may be instituted under this Act if- 
either party to the marriage is an Australian citizen: 
either  party  to  the marriage is present in Australia  v   .. i .. . &lt; '( . u .. c.iiUi c.i : hv  r.ii;r:~:.:rv  :;.io  ;. .  - . -. . &lt; ,.t. i. 
Subject to this Part, the Supreme Court of each State is invested with federal jurisdiction, and jurisdiction is conferred on the Family Court and on the Supreme Court of each Territory, to hear and determine- 
matrimonial causes instituted under this Act; 
matrimonial causes continued in accordance with section 9; and 
proceedings instituted under regulations made for the purposes of section 106, 109, 1 10 or 1 1 1 . 
The Governor-General may, by Proclamation, fix a date as the date on and after which proceedings under this Act may not be instituted in or transferred to a court of summary jurisdiction in a State or Territory or in a part of a State or Territory specified in the Proclamation and a court of summary jurisdiction shall not hear and determine any such proceedings so instituted in, or transferred to, that court on or after the date. 
Circulated amendments. 

 (Mr Ellicott)- In sub-clause ( 1 ), omit paragraph (a). 

 (Mr Ellicott)-At the end of sub-clause (1), add the following paragraph: 
in such other Court of a State or Territory (not being a Court of summary jurisdiction) as may be prescribed. '. 

 (Mr Wentworth)- In sub-clause (3), paragraph (b), omit 'or ', insert ' and '. 

 (Mr Wenrworth)-After sub-clause ( 3 ) add: 
Provided that no such proceedings shall be finalised unless- 
the Court is satisfied that the respondent has received due notice of the application, or 
the Court is satisfied that it is impracticable to serve such notice on the respondent and that, having regard to all the circumstances, it would be inequitable for the application to proceed. '. 

 (Mr Wentworth)- In sub-clause (4), paragraph (a), after 'citizen' add 'who is present in Australia and is ordinarily resident there; or'. 

 (Mr Wentworth)- In sub-clause (4), omit paragraph (b). 

 (Mr Wentworth)-In sub-clause (4), paragraph (c), omit ' present ', substitute ' ordinarily resident '. 

 (Mr Ellicott)-In sub-clause (5), after 'State', insert and such other Court of a State as may be prescribed pursuant to paragraph ( 1 ) ( c) '. 

 (Mr Ellicott)- In sub-clause (5), omit 'on the Family Court and'. 

 (Mr Ellicott)-In sub-clause (5), after 'Territory' insert 'and in such other Court of a Territory as may be prescribed pursuant to paragraph ( 1 ) (c)'. 
1 )  (Mr Connolly)-In  sub-clause (7), omit 'instituted in, or'. 

 (Mr K. M. Cairns)-In sub-clause (7), omit instituted in, or'. 

 (Mr Connolly)-In sub-clause (7), omit 'instituted in, or'. 

 (Mr K. M. Cairns)-In sub-clause (7), omit instituted in, or'. 
Yes,  Mr Chairman.  We are dealing with amendment No. 62 to clause 39. I wish to indicate to my friend the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  that I will give favourable consideration to the matters he has raised. I did follow his argument. The honourable member will have noticed that I have not been moving a number of the amendments circulated in my name. I am doing that deliberately. My actions are not unrelated to some of the remarks which went backwards and forwards between my good friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and myself a little while ago. I want this Bill to become law as soon as possible, and I think most honourable members want that. If supplemental Bills have to be introduced at some stage in the future, perhaps that can be done. With a little indulgence,  Mr Chairman,  I wish to make the point that I am anxious, now that we are obviously going to pass this law, to be able to embark upon attempts to reach agreement with the States on the Family Court issue during the Parliamentary recess which is approaching. With all the uncertainties that surround this measure, and there have been many from about November 1973 until today- these uncertainties will continue; obviously they will not disappear today- I am hopeful that before the Parliamentary recess we will enact a law on which I could then begin to negotiate with the States. On that basis I am not pressing my amendments in the hope of expediting matters. I will certainly give favourable consideration to what the honourable member for Wentworth has said. 
Amendment No. 62 negatived. 
I move circulated amendment No. 76. Let me answer the points raised. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  directed my attention, in considering clause 41, to the memorandum that was circulated over my name. I certainly will be doing my best to reach agreements with the States, as described in clause 41. Indeed, on the last occasion on which I was on my feet- that is, prior to speaking by leave- I made that very point as one of the reasons why I wanted this legislation to become law. I think the language is to the effect that, as soon as practicable after the Bill becomes law, the Australian Government shall take steps with a view to making agreements. That will be done. Now, on the other question - 
-I have seen it. 
-Perhaps so. The paper was an attempt to assist honourable members at that time. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  raised the question of what would happen if the States held out from making these agreements. I hope that he is not suggesting that I might be faced with an unreasonable attitude on the part of the States. If he is putting to me a question as to what I will do if some State is unreasonable in these negotiations as we try to reach an agreement, I must admit that I cannot answer him at this stage. It would depend upon the degree to which the State was being unreasonable. It would depend on what it was saying to me. We certainly will be trying to be reasonable. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 41, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 42, agreed to. 
Clause 43. 
The Family Court shall, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this Act or any other Act, and any other court exercising jurisdiction under this Act shall, in the exercise of that jurisdiction, have regard to- 
the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life; 
the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society, particularly while it is responsible for the care and education of dependent children; 
the need to protect the rights of children and to promote their welfare; and 
the means available for assisting parties to a marriage to consider reconciliation or the improvement of their relationship to each other and to the children of the marriage. 
Circulated amendments. 

 (Mr Ellicott)-Omit 'The Family Court shall, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this Act or any other Act, and any', substitute 'Any'. (77a)  (Mr Kevin Cairns)-  Omit 'in the exercise of that jurisdiction, have regard to- ', insert ' to the extent to which it is not contrary to this Act, have regard to-'. 

 (Mr McMahon)- Amendment withdrawn. (78a)  (Mr McMahon)-  In paragraph (a), omit 'voluntarily entered into for life', substitute ', voluntarily entered into upon the basis that the union is intended to be permanent and should not be dissolved by law unless the marriage relationship has irretrievably broken down'. 

 (Mr Fraser)- After paragraph (c) insert the following paragraph: (ca) the need to protect the position of a woman who wishes only to continue her role as a wife and mother; '. 
It seems to me that the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  correctly states the present attitude of society to marriage. Speaking for myself, I would not oppose it. I hope that, holding my views on this Bill and its importance, I shall not live to regret this when the Bill goes back to the Senate. 
I wish to make a short contribution on this clause. What honourable members seem to be missing- and I suggest with great respect that they are missing- is the state of the present law. When the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  talks about subjective elements being replaced with objective elements surely he forgets that the present law dealing with, say, a 5-year separation period, interpreted by the courts as it has been, allows the judges to take into account services of this kind offered by one spouse or another. How could it be otherwise? The traditional role of judges is to ascertain the facts, to determine whether or not there has been a separation in fact when the parties lived under the same roof- when perhaps, under some circumstances or other, the wife, claiming to be in a separated situation, does prepare a meal; or the husband, claiming to be in a separated situation, does move a piece of furniture or perform a favour or something of that sort. The whole question then comes back to the judge to decide. This is what we put people on the bench for- to decide issues of fact of this sort. May I suggest, with great respect to the learned gentlemen who delight in - 
I am being very friendly. I suggest to the learned gentlemen who delight in this exercise that if they are looking for certainty and for the satisfaction of that ideal that comes from this Parliament declaring its point of view as to what the law should be, they will not achieve it by cutting out those words that come to us from the Senate-come to us after having been thoroughly thrashed out there- and leaving even a more uncertain expression, a wider and more generalised statement. We could test it this way: The sub-clause, in its present form, states: 
The parties to a marriage may be held to have separated and to have lived separately and apart notwithstanding that they have continued to reside in the same residence- 
That is pretty much a straightforward statement of the existing law:  or that either party has rendered some household services to the other. 
That too is pretty much a straightforward statement of the present law. But these honourable members want to cut out the latter part of that sub-clause. They want to remove the words 'or that either party has rendered some household services' in the interests of objectivity, they say, and in the interests of certainty, they say. But it will give the court less guidance. All honourable members :know that the court, in one way or another, notwithstanding the rules that apply in this situation, would have regard to the fact that there was a debate taking place in this chamber at the moment. They would have regard to the fact that we removed the words 'or that either party has rendered some household services'- a meal has been cooked, a bed has been made - 
-Or a lawn has been mowed. I am indebted to the honourable member for Wakefield. They would have regard to this and say: 'What do they expect us to have regard to? If this is being removed, what are we to have regard to in determining whether or not the parties have lived separately and apart even though they live under the same roof?' We give them guidance. This sub-clause is consistent with the existing law and has been thoroughly thrashed out. Some court cases have been referred to: The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  referred to Crabtree and Crabtree; Hastings and Hastings is another one. My God, the Federal law reports must be full of such cases! I put it to honourable members that they should have a second thought. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 50 
For the purpose of proceedings for a decree of dissolution of marriage, where, after the parties to the marriage separated, they resumed cohabitation on one occasion but, within a period of 3 months after the resumption of cohabitation, they again separated and thereafter lived separately and apart up to the date of the commencement of the hearing of the application, the periods of living separately and apart before and after the period of cohabitation may be aggregated as if they were one continuous period, but the period of cohabitation shall not be deemed to be part of the period of living separately and apart. 
Circulated amendments. 

 (Mr Bourchier)- In sub-clause (1) omit 'up to the date of the commencement of the hearing of the application', substitute 'up to the date of the filing of the application'. 

 (Mr Kevin Cairns)- In sub-clause ( 1 ) omit 'up to the date of the commencement of the hearing of the application', substitute 'up to the date of the filing of the application'. 
I thank the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  for drawing my attention to the apparent- I emphasise the word apparent'- inconsistency between the provisions of the Marriage Act and the clause in this Bill which is before the Committee. I am happy to inform the Committee that amendments are in train for the Marriage Act, as the honourable member for Wentworth would know, having regard to his previous experience as SolicitorGeneral. We will certainly be keeping the matter under close review. I wish to turn my attention to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Surely the references to incest and eugenics or inbreeding or things of that sort, and the fear of such things which goes deep in many of us, are illfounded and not justified by what is to be found in this clause. I say as a reminder to honourable members, although by itself it is not enough to convince honourable members, that this Bill came to us from the Senate and this provision was inserted by the Senate after examination. The fact remains that the definition of prohibited degrees is clear. I read that definition to honourable members from clause 5 1 (3) of the Bill: 
Marriages that are within a prohibited relationship are marriages- 
between a person and an ancestor or descendant of the person, or 
between a brother and a sister (whether of the whole blood or the half blood). 
Increasingly in recent years it has become apparent that the wider range of prohibited degrees, which depend essentially on marriage relationships, does not serve any utility, if I may put it that way, in the cause of eugenics, even if I have to use that word which does not please me particularly. But the lateral relationship in that sense as it goes out before it goes down in an ancestor-type way, plays little or no part in the sort of built-in fears that the honourable member obviously entertains. Surely the vertical ancestor relationship does. If one has to use words like blood' and 'genes', that is where the concern lies. This is what underlies the honourable member's concern, it seems to me, as I understood him. 
A lot of research has been done on this matter. The honourable member read at some length from an edition, I know not which edition, of the Encyclopaedia Britannica'. There has been more up to date research on this matter by people such as Professor Nygh and Professor Finley of Monash University suggesting that the lateral sort of relationship matters not- and it is a considerable infringement of the right to marry. I am reminded- I do not know whether it is truethat Jewish law, for example, and other areas of law, does not and has never gone in for the more restricted areas which we have previously laid down. What is in the Bill is generally accepted, and I put it to honourable members as being a reasonable relaxation of these rules which have come to us from the past- surrounded, I would say, by all the taboos of the past. 
The remarks of my good friend, the - honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  demand an answer. He asks us, without having circulated an amendment in his name to the effect, to write into the Bill something that suddenly has occurred to him. He suddenly gets to his feet and off the top of his head utters this thought - 
I move amendment No. 120 standing in my name. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I point out that five of the fifteen Judges who participated in the proceedings did not deliver a separate opinion, concurring or dissenting. The Judgment of the Court was adopted by a majority of nine Judges to six. A study of the separate opinions has not affected the Government's position of accepting the Judgment of the Court, as required under Article 59 of the Statute of the International Court. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
What my distinguished predecessor,  Mr Justice  Murphy of the High Court, stated was that he believed the case Australia had put to the Court and the injunction granted by the Court in 1973 had influenced the French Government's decision to discontinue atmospheric nuclear testing in the South Pacific. To develop further the considerations which  Mr Justice  Murphy no doubt had in mind would be to reopen matters of controversy, which, as between Australia and France, are, happily, now resolved. But I have no doubt that the initiative which the Australian Government took in 1973, and the vigorous development of that position before the International Court of Justice, served as a focal point in the mobilisation of international opinion against French atmospheric testing; and that this factor was one which influenced the French Government in the decision which it took. 
It would not be appropriate for me to speak for the French Government on what its purposes are, or, therefore what is sufficient for such purposes. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to House of Representatives Question No. 753. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question was answered on 6 March 1975 (Hansard page 1239). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question was answered on 6 March 1975 (Hansard page 1240). 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill gives effect to the Government's measures providing financial assistance to the Australian shipbuilding industry. The measures were announced by the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply on 18 December 1973. It is the Government's objective to provide assistance which will assure the continuing development of a rationalised and efficient shipbuilding industry in Australia. The assistance will alleviate local shipbuilders' disabilities against prospective import competition while providing intending purchasers with the opportunity to source their requirements overseas. 
Honourable members will be aware that financial assistance has been provided to the shipbuilding industry since 1947. The assistance is currently provided under section 47 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956, as amended, under which Australia agrees to purchase a vessel from the shipowner on completion of construction and the shipowner agrees to re-purchase the vessel from Australia at the same price less the amount of the subsidy to be provided. The level and mode of assistance to the industry was reviewed by the Tariff Board from time to time, the latest review being the Tariff Board report on shipbuilding signed on 25 June 1971. The annual payments of subsidy have risen from about $2m in 1947 to about $30m in 1974. 
The legislation now being introduced sets out the assistance that will be available to shipbuilders and the procedures by which that assistance will be made available. The Bill is similar to other bounty legislation and brings the method of providing assistance to shipbuilders into line with other bounty assistance accorded to manufacturers. The Bill provides that bounty will be payable on the production in Australia, in registered shipyards, of vessels of 150 gross construction tons or more and fishing vessels 2 1 metres or more in length, where these vessels are for use in Australian waters or for use by Australian flag operators in international trade. Bounty is also payable on the modification in Australia of existing vessels where the cost of the shipbuilding type activity involved in the modification exceeds $500,000. There is provision for pro-rata recapture of bounty if the vessel is disposed of for use outside Australian waters by other than an Australian flag operator within 10 years of completion of the construction or the modification. 
The amount of bounty payable is as follows: Vessels of less than 1000 gross construction tons, 25 per cent of the bounty price; vessels of 92 000 deadweight tonnes or more, 25 per cent; oil exploration vessels, 25 per cent; modifications of existing vessels, 25 per cent; other vessels up to 31 December 1980, 25 per cent to 40 per cent -according to gross construction tonnage and date of keel laying specified in the building contract; and other vessels on or after 1 January 1981,25 percent. 
In determining the bounty price the cost of certain items such as purchase of designs overseas, miscellaneous stores, fees and specialised functional equipment not being part of shipbuilding activity may be excluded. The Bill also includes provisions for the registration of premises for the construction or modification of vessels generally or vessels of a particular kind. The provisions are similar to those provided in the Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Act 1972 and the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1973. The Minister for Transport will be responsible for the administration of the bounty legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 

Customs Tariff proposal No. 1 5 ( 1 975 ). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974 to give effect to the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on mushrooms. The effect of the decision is that a rate of 25 per cent will apply to fresh or processed mushrooms, including dried, dehydrated, chilled, frozen and freeze-dried mushrooms. The rate of duty applying to mushrooms packed in liquid or in airtight containers is bound by international commitments and will be fixed at 17.5 cents per litre pending negotiations to permit implementation of a rate of 25 per cent. The new duties will operate from tomorrow. 
The Proposals also contain several minor changes of an administrative nature which do not involve changes in rates of duty. A comprehensive summary of the changes and the duty rates is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
I suggest to honourable members that no element of retrospectivity is involved at all. All that the clause in its present form would permit is a power to the court to modify orders in accordance with the new principles after the new law has come into operation. There is nothing retrospective in that. Indeed, an order that might be in existence now under the existing legislation can be modified at any stage because of a change of circumstances, according to certain well understood principles at the moment, if a party can bring himself within the ambit of the existing law. With the change in the law, it is surely proper that the parties have the same right, but to be exercised in accordance with the new principles. And of course the principles set out in clauses 72, 75 and, I think, 76 are new. So I suggest to the honourable gentleman that there is nothing retrospective in it; it is just applying the new principles to a continuing situation. 
While the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is writing out his amendment, I would say that I support his contribution. I had in mind proposing such an amendment myself. It matters not whence it comes. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 101 and 102-by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 103 agreed to. 
Clause 104. 
10) The preceding provisions of this section apply in relation to dissolutions and annulments effected whether by decree, legislation or otherwise, whether before, on or after the commencing date, and, for the purposes of this section, any decree, legislation or other process by which it is established that a purported marriage was or is to become void shall be deemed to be an annulment of the marriage. 
Circulated amendment. (133)  (Mr Enderby)-  In sub-clause (10) omit 'before, on or after the commencing date', substitute 'before or after the commencement of this Act'. 
I move amendment No. 133 circulated in my name. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 105 agreed to. 
Clause 106. 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the manner in which decrees made under this Act may be enforced including provision for conferring jurisdiction on courts of the Territories or investing State courts with federal jurisdiction. 
Circulated amendment. ( 134)  (Mr McMahon)-Omit  the clause, substitute the following clause:  106. The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the enforcement of decrees made under this Act including- 
provision for conferring jurisdiction on courts of the Territories or investing State courts with federal jurisdiction; and 
in the case of a decree being a maintenance order under Part VIII- provision for an officer of a court exercising jurisdiction under this Act or an authority or person specified in the regulations, in his discretion, to take proceedings on behalf of the person entitled to moneys payable under that order for the purpose of enforcing payment of those moneys. *. 
I briefly indicate my support for the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon). 
-Reason prevails today. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 107. 
1 ) After the commencement of this Act, no person shall be imprisoned or otherwise placed in custody by reason of contravention of, or failure to comply with, an order for the payment of money made in a matrimonial cause and any person who is in a prison or other custody at the commencement of this Act as a result of contravention of, or failure to comply with, such an order shall be released forthwith. 
The release from prison or other custody under subsection ( 1 ) of a person who was in that prison or custody by reason of failure to pay any moneys does not release the person from any liability to pay those moneys. 
This section does not affect the operation of subsection 70 (6) or sub-section 114(3). 
Circulated amendments. (135)  (Mr Luchetti)-  In sub-clause (1) after 'person', insert 'unless he shall be guilty of wilful disobedience of the court's order'. (136)  (Mr Kevin Cairns)-  In sub-clause (1) after 'person ', insert 'unless he shall be guilty of wilful disobedience of the court's order'. (137)  (Mr Enderby)-In  sub-clause (3) omit 'sub-section 114(3)', substitute 'sub-section 1 14 (4)'. 
I move circulated amendment No. 137. It is a purely formal amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Just briefly in reply to both the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Lilley, I think the answer is to be found in a reading of clause 108. 
I suggest that there is no reason for the concern that has been expressed. May I begin by drawing the attention of honourable gentlemen to the existing law which may have gone unnoticed. It is to be found in section 124 of the Matrimonial Causes Act which deals with the power to give injunctions as the law stands now. The discretion there is at large. It provides that the court may grant an injunction by interlocutory order or otherwise in any case in which it appears to the court to be just or convenient to do so, and either unconditionally or upon such terms and conditions as the court thinks just. It is at large. The court can make any injunction at the moment. I suggest that that power is not abused. 
Let me turn to the situation to which the honourable Member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  adverted. I suppose that courts which do what is traditionally called divorce work have such a wide range of marital behaviour and conduct brought before them that there is virtually no limit to it and indeed injunctions are from time to time sought in all manner of things to protect one relationship or another- certainly to protect property relationships and to protect a person from assault and brutality. I can remember cases in my own experience in which the husband left to go to work in the morning and found that an ex parte injunction was made while he was away, preventing him returning to his home. These are made under the existing law. They arouse controversy from time to time. The resolution of the dispute takes place in accordance with well established legal principles. This clause of the Bill does not extend that practice substantially in any way except that it spells out that one of the matters that the court can take into account is the protection of the marital relationship. 
A resolution of the dispute would have to be sought first. I put this hypothetical position to the honourable gentleman who asks: 'What does that mean?': Let us suppose that there is a third person living in a house with a husband and wife. Let us suppose that the wife wanted to complain that adultery was being committed between her husband and that third person, whether that person be a girl or perhaps a lodger in the house. It would not matter what the sex of the third person was. In the informality of these envisaged proceedings one might imagine an application being made for an injunction. Under the existing law, there would be the immediate filing of a petition for divorce on the ground of adultery with all the things associated with that which honourable members have tried to reject. In this case, with the informality it might be possible- I am just putting this forward as a possibility- to obtain an order that that third person leave the house. This could be done because it would be in the interests of protecting the matrimonial relationship that that person leave the house. One spouse would have to ask for the granting of the order. The other spouse might consent because there is a heavy conciliatory role to be played under this legislation. If the other spouse did object, of course, conceivably an order of that sort could be made. This is one situation that occurs to my mind. 
-I thought that there were several. Which one were you thinking of? 
-As I have put to the honourable member, the existing law is far wider than the proposed legislation that is before us today. 
-The existing law gives a discretion to the court which is a discretion at large. The example given by the honourable member conceivably could be brought within the existing law. It is not because no judge would act upon circumstances of that sort and no person would complain of circumstances of that sort and seek injunctive relief. I am suggesting that the same approach would apply under this proposal. This proposed legislation spells out a matrimonial relationship which I would have thought would have had great appeal to my friend, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. It spells out, along with property rights and the protection of the person, a marital relationship and the family. In other words, the injunction power can be used to protect and preserve the family. I would have thought that that had great appeal.  Mr Chairman,  I also move circulated Amendment No. 140 standing in my name. 
Amendment (138) negatived. 
Amendment (140) agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 115. 
1 ) The Attorney-General may establish a Family Law Council consisting of persons appointed by him in accordance with sub-section (2). 
The Council shall consist of a Judge of the Family Court and such other judges, officers of the Public Service of Australia or of a State, representatives of marriage counselling organizations and other persons as the AttorneyGeneral thinks fit. 
It is the function of the Council to advise and make recommendations to the Attorney-General, either of its own motion or upon request made to it by the Attorney-General, concerning- 
the working of this Act and other legislation relating to family law; 
the working of legal aid in proceedings in family law; and 
any other matters relating to family law. 
The Attorney-General shall appoint one of its members to be Chairman of the Council. 
The members of the Council shall be paid such allowances in respect of expenses in connexion with their duties as are prescribed. 
Circulated amendments. (141)  (Mr Ellicott)-In  sub-clause (2), omit 'a Judge of the Family Court and such other', substitute 'such'. (141a)  (Mr Giles)-  After sub-clause (5), insert the following sub-clauses: (5a) Subject to sub-section (5b), a member of the Council holds office for such period, not exceeding 3 years, as is specified in the instrument of his appointment, but is eligible for re-appointment. (5b) The appointment of a member of the Council may, at any time, be terminated by the Attorney-General. '. 
I regret to say that I would argue against the amendment. The clause, in its present form, gives a discretion to the appointor in regard to the appointees to the Family Law Council. One might well opt for a term of 2 years, 3 years or 4 years, but I would say that it is probably a disadvantage to have the term written into the Act. However, I give the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  an assurance to this effect: As we watch the operation of the Act we will keep this aspect under close review. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 116 agreed to. 
Clause 117. 
I oppose the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  the principal reason being that there is a need to protect the right of privacy. That is a right that is increasingly being talked about these days. As I think Prime Minister Trudeau in Canada once said, the State has no interest in the affairs or the bedrooms of its citizens. It could equally well be said that other citizens have little or no interest in what goes on in a particular matrimonial home or matrimonial relationship. 
If the honourable member wants to encourage the commercial publication of judgments with all the prurience, all the voyeurism, that goes with it he is by all means entitled to his point of view. May I suggest that in the interests of the whole approach of this legislation that is undesirable. 
Judgments are published. The clause makes it perfectly clear that judgments can be published for the purposes of law reports. One can read the judgments in the law reports. This is made perfectly clear in sub-clause ( 5 ), which states: 
The preceding provisions - 
That is, where the prohibition is to be found-   . . do not apply to or in relation to- ' 
a ) the printing of any pleading - 
One can get the pleadings if one wants to publish them. The sub-clause sets out details of the other material that can be acquired. It states: 
the printing or publishing of a notice or report in pursuance of the direction of a court; 
the printing or publishing of law court lists; or 
the printing or publishing of any publication bona fide intended primarily for the use of members of the legal or medical profession, being- 
a separate volume or part of a series of law reports; or 
any other publication of a technical character. 
I would suggest to the honourable gentleman that that accords with present practice in which not every judgment of every divorce court is published. 
A judgment is made in 95 per cent of undefended divorce actions. Is the honourable member going to the extent of saying that commercial pedlars or people who want to satisfy a prurient interest in some members of the community should have access to these judgments to publish them as the scandal sheet of the week or something of that sort? That is what would follow from the honourable member's amendment. If a point of law or a medical issue is involved the judgments will find a place in the recognised standard works. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-I have been misrepresented and I want to make my position clear. I am not suggesting for one moment that any of these matters which the AttorneyGeneral was good enough to describe as voyeurism should be published at all. Under the Bill as it stands one could not even publish the fact that  Mr and Mrs A  had been divorced. It is surely quite outrageous that no public record could be published and printed as to whether anyone is married or divorced. It is perfectly ridiculous. 
The decree nisi is registered. 
I seek leave of the Committee for the reconsideration of a clause. I do so at the request of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  It was his intention to move an amendment but with all the difficulties which surrounded the debate yesterday it seems to have been omitted. It is clause 50. If leave is granted I think the Committee will agree with the amendment. 
I accept the amendment and the reasons given for it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
The Government cannot accept the amendments put forward by the Opposition. The Government cannot accept the proposition to omit the words 'GovernorGeneral determines' and to substitute the word prescribed' because the provision that the Governor-General determines the terms and conditions of service for statutory office holders is a common one. For example, it is to be found in legislation concerning the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Trade Practices Commission, the Law Reform Commission and the Director of the Institute of Criminology. There are good reasons why that should be so. Additionally, there is no reason to depart from the usual practice in this case. Remuneration allowances and superannuation are specifically provided for elsewhere in the Bill. I also put forward this thought for the honourable gentleman as an additional reason why the Government cannot accept the amendments: For provisions to be prescribed other than by the Governor-General introduces a rigidity that is not desirable. For those reasons the Government cannot accept the proposal. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 9 to 1 1- by leave- taken together. 
In responding to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  I would say that we hope that there will be a Superior Court of Australia. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 12. 
A full-time member shall not, except with the approval of the Minister, engage in paid employment outside the duties of his office. 
The Government regrets that it cannot accept the amendment put forward by the Opposition. In this instance a degree of flexibility is thought to be desirable. The clause is drafted. The clause that the honourable gentleman would seek to omit enables the Minister to permit a full time member to engage in other paid employment. There are cases, which will spring to mind readily, in which it would be appropriate for a full time member to engage in other paid employment that would not interfere with his duties. For example, it may be appropriate for a full time member to accept a part time lectureship at an academic institution. Unless there were power to enable him to do so he would not be able to accept such employment without exposing himself to a charge of misbehaviour. That would unduly restrict the options available to the Government in recruiting the best people for the position. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 13 and 14- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 15. 
1 ) Where the  President  is, or is to be, a member of the Tribunal as constituted for the purposes of a proceeding and he has or acquires any interest, pecuniary or otherwise, that could conflict with the proper performance of his functions in relation to that proceeding, he shall disclose the interest to the Minister. 
Where the Minister becomes aware that the  President  is, or is to be, a member of the Tribunal as constituted for the purposes of a proceeding and that the  President  has in relation to that proceeding such an interest as is mentioned in sub-section ( 1 )- 
if the Minister considers that the  President  should not take pari, or should not continue to take pan, in the proceeding- he shall give a direction to the  President  accordingly; or 
in any other case- he shall direct the  President  to cause his interest to be disclosed to the parties to the proceeding. 
Where a member (other than a  President)  is, or is to be, a member of the Tribunal as constituted for the purposes of a proceeding and he has or acquires any interest, pecuniary or otherwise, that could conflict with the proper performance of his functions in relation to that proceeding, he shall disclose the interest to the  President. 
Where the  President  becomes aware that a member is, or is to be, a member of the Tribunal as constituted for the purposes of a proceeding and that the member has in relation to that proceeding such an interest as is mentioned in sub-section (3)- 
if the  President  considers that the member should not take pan, or should not continue to take pan, in the proceeding- he shall give a direction to the member accordingly; or 
in any other case- he shall cause the interest of the member to be disclosed to the parties to the proceeding. 
The  President  may, by writing signed by him, direct that disclosures of interest in accordance with sub-section (3) by members, or by members included in a specified class of members, may be made to a  Deputy President  specified in the direction and, where a disclosure is made to a  Deputy President  in pursuance of such a direction, the disclosure shall be deemed to be made to the  President  but the  Deputy President  shall, in lieu of the  President,  perform the duties that would, but for this sub-section, be imposed on the  President  under sub-section (4) if the disclosure had in fact been made to the  President. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clauses ( 1) to (3), inclusive, substitute the following sub-clauses: 
1 ) Where a member is , or is to be, a member of the Tribunal as constituted for the purposes of a proceeding and he has or acquires any interest, pecuniary or otherwise, that could conflict with the proper performance of his functions in relation to that proceeding- 
he shall disclose the interest to the parties to the proceeding; and 
except with the consent of all the parties to the proceeding, he shall not take pan in the proceeding or exercise any powers in relation to the review by the Tribunal of the decision to which the proceeding relates.' 
Omit sub-clause (5). 
The purpose of these amendments is to alter the provisions of clause 15 which deals with the case where a member of the Tribunal has a pecuniary or other interest in a matter before the Tribunal. As the clause stands if the  President  has such an interest the responsible Minister may direct him not to sit. On further consideration- certainly on my reaction to seeing the clause for the first time- I thought it inappropriate for such a power to be vested in the Minister. When the member concerned is a member other than the  President,  the  President  can direct him not to sit. The effect of the amendments will be that a member who has such an interest in a proceeding may not sit unless he discloses that interest to the parties and all the parties agree to his sitting. It does not affect the power of the  President  to direct another member not to sit. We would suggest that these amendments are more in accord- I am sure that the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  would agree- with established practice and the established system. I think it actually is consistent with a proposed amendment that he was thinking of putting forward. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment, not because it disagrees with the general expression of intent being put forward by the Opposition but because what the amendment proposes just is not practicable at this time. Indeed, if I were tempted to be unkind- and I am trying hard to resist the temptation - 
-Thank you. If one did yield to the temptation one would describe the sense of opportunism in the attitude of the Opposition. One welcomes the fact that the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  is in the chamber, because he was very closely and intimately associated with some of these proposals when he was the Solicitor-General and, at that time, sat I think on the Kerr Committee report. So, one knows, recognises and applauds his longstanding interest in and his dedication to this subject of administrative law reform. But, at the same time, one must draw attention also to the fact that the honourable gentlemen who sit opposite did not begin this legislation. Even though they now try to claim it as their own in one way, it is not. I put forward the view, at the risk of being perhaps slightly abrasive, that if there had not been a change of government in December 1972 this legislation would not be before this Committee. 
Be that as it may, the fact remains that the thoughts put forward by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  are basically correct. The Bill is a framework. It has to be a framework at this stage. May I put this to him: The purpose of his amendment is to give the tribunal immediate jurisdiction in respect of the matters which are specified in the schedule to be proposed by a subsequent amendment. We must oppose his amendment for certain reasons. First, perhaps I can put it this way: The schedule as drafted is in our view defective. It would not be effective to confer jurisdiction on the tribunal in many cases because of drafting inadequacies. That remark perhaps takes me to the need that was adverted to in a debate last week- the need to give parliamentary drafting assistance to all back bench members of this Parliament. That is something which the Government has in mind. It is our view that there are deficiencies in the drafting at this stage with respect to references to legislation that has been repealed and alterations of the law since the report of the Bland Committee. This illustrates the difficulty of proceeding except on a case by case basis enacting provisions in each case appropriate to the legislation in question. 
Secondly, it was made clear in the second reading speech that the intention of the Government was to proceed in this way: A detailed examination of legislative action necessary to give effect to the recommendations of the Bland Committee commenced perhaps 3 weeks or 4 weeks ago, and is well advanced. It does involve close, detailed discussions with a large number of Government departments. As the Bland Committee report made us aware, hundreds, perhaps thousands, of administrative discretions are involved. As I said, this work is well advanced. Consideration is being given by the Government to proposed amendments which will give effect to the spirit, the intent, that is sought to be achieved at this stage by the Opposition's amendment. I would hope- indeed, I trust that my departmental officers are listening as I say this-that those negotiations are sufficiently finalised by the time that this Bill is transmitted to the Senate so that we can introduce them there; but they are certainly not in final form at this stage. On that basis, there would be something concrete to include in the law. 
Let me give this assurance to the honourable member for Bennelong, as he and I did discuss the situation in the corridor before the sitting was suspended this evening, and I will not repeat much of what I said: A great deal has been done; assurances were given; and I give the honourable member the assurance which is probably implicit in what I have already said. 
Again the Government has to oppose the amendment put forward by the Opposition largely for reasons which I have already given, but also because sub-clause (2) which the Opposition proposes to omit, authorises the making of regulations under other enactments to confer jurisdiction on the Tribunal. This method of proceeding is considered by the Government to be more expeditious than bringing amending legislation before the Parliament. Parliament, through the power of disallowance, retains ultimate control. The omission of sub-clause (2) is opposed. 
I wish to take this opportunity to say that the Government puts this overall measure forward as a principal piece of legislation to which it attaches enormous importance. I refer again to the remarks of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  who said that when this legislation becomes law, together with the ombudsman legislation, Australia can stand proud in the nations of the world as having perhaps the most enlightened, advanced and progressive form of administrative law in the world. We do not intend to sit on it. 
Amendment negatived. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (6), substitute the following sub-clause: 
Where an enactment provides for applications to the Tribunal- 
that enactment, or another enactment having effect under that enactment, may also include a provision that a non-presidential member shall not exercise, or participate in the exercise of, the powers of the Tribunal m relation to such applications unless he was appointed as a non-presidential member in accordance with a procedure, or has special qualifications, specified in the provision, and sub-section 21(1) has effect subject to any provision so included; and 
that enactment, or another enactment having effect under that enactment, may also include provisions adding to, excluding or modifying the operation of any of the provisions of sections 22, 23, 27, 29, 32, 33 and 35 or of sub-section 43(1) or (2) in relation to such applications, and those sections and sub-sections have effect subject to any provisions so included. '. 
I think that the amendment is self-explanatory but perhaps I should give these facts to the Committee: Following the introduction of the Health Insurance Bill 1975 there became a need to amend clause 26 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill. The Health Insurance Bill establishes an Optometrical Services Review Tribunal- one of the many which operate at the moment and to which it is sought to bring some kind of system. The non-presidential members of that tribunal are to be optometrists, one of them to be appointed after the Minister has consulted with the professional body representing optometrists in Australia. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said that the question of appeals under the provisions of the Health Insurance Bill being transferred to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal would be taken up when the tribunal commenced to operate. As the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill is now drafted there could be no legislative basis for consulting a tribunal along the lines of the Optometrical Services Review Tribunal under the present Health Insurance Bill. There may also be other appeal tribunals existing at the present time or to be set up in the future where it is desirable to provide by legislation that professional or other organisations should be consulted in the appointment of the members of the tribunal or that the members of the tribunal should have particular qualifications. To enable the Administrative Appeals Tribunal to be constituted in such a way under particular legislation an amendment to clause 26 of the Bill is thought to be desirable. The present amendment is intended to make provision for such a case. 
May I just say in reply to the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  who has just moved the 2 amendments, that one cannot help but thank him for the inherent compliment that goes to the objectivity of the mind of an Attorney-General. I wish it were always so. One does one 's best. But I suggest to him that it is really something for which all Ministers aim. It is not merely confined to Attorneys-General. There is a need for ministerial responsibility to be brought to bear in subjects of this sort and there is also a need for flexibility. As we all know, from time to time Ministers change portfolios. There are the administrative arrangements orders. Greater flexibility comes from the use of the words 'a Minister' than from 'the Attorney-General'. It is for that reason that clause 28 provides for a Minister to give a certificate that certain information should not be given to a person. The appropriate Minister to give this certificate in this particular case would be the Minister administering the department concerned and not the AttorneyGeneral. 
As to the second aspect may I put these thoughts to the honourable member:  His  amendment would omit a paragraph that would empower a Minister to give a certificate withholding a statement of findings and reasons for a decision on the ground that the disclosure of the statement would be contrary to the public interest for a reason specified by the Minister. It would be proper for such a certificate to be given, for example, where the statement of findings and reasons contains material relating to the personal affairs of some person other than the applicant in question. The Bill does not attempt to set out an exhaustive statement of the circumstances in which such a certificate might be given, for the reason that it is difficult to foresee all the circumstances that may arise. However, the giving of such a certificate does not deny access by the Tribunal to the statement of findings and reasons. 
Moreover if one looks at clause 36, sub-clause (3) of the Bill one finds that there is power there for the Tribunal to overrule a decision by a Minister that information should be withheld from an appellant unless the information relates to defence, national security, international relations or Cabinet proceedings. For those reasons the provision seems to us to be consistent with the ordinary law relating to Crown privilege in judicial proceedings. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Consideration interrupted. 
Progress reported. 
The Government cannot accept the amendments for the reasons that I gave when speaking last night. This does not apply to amendment No. 12 which proposes that words be omitted. These words have been inserted perhaps with an abundance of caution. But the sub-clause is deemed to be appropriate so that the rights of individuals and parties to claim a privilege, such as a solicitor and client privilege, will still apply notwithstanding the earlier provisions in the clause. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 37 agreed to. 
Clauses 38 and 39- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 40. 
The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by a person for the purposes of this section is an oath or affirmation that the answers he will give to questions asked will be true. 
-Unfortunately the Government cannot agree with my good friend the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  that these matters are self-evident. In fact, the Government takes a different view and suggests that they are not self-evident at all. With respect to the first aspect put by my good friend, he seeks to have a right built into the legislation for every witness- party or not- to have a lawyer. We think that that is not self-evident. That is not the normal position in other courts. We know of no reason why the position should be taken to this unheard of stage unless someone is seeking to abuse the legal process or even abuse the system of legal aid upon which the Government has generously embarked. So for those reasons, briefly, the Government cannot accept that proposal. As to the second part of my friend's amendment, that is the proposed insertion of new clause (3b) which provides that evidence given by a person before the Tribunal is not admissible the Government certainly accepts the proposition but it claims that it is part of the existing Bill. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 41 to 43- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 44. 
1 ) A party to a proceeding before the Tribunal may, in such manner and within such time as are prescribed, appeal to the Superior Court of Australia, on a question of law, from any decision of the Tribunal in that proceeding. 
Where a person has applied to the Tribunal for a review of a decision, or has applied to be made a party to a proceeding before the Tribunal for a review of a decision, and the Tribunal decides that the interests of the person are not affected by the decision, the person may, in such manner and within such time as are prescribed, appeal to the Superior Court of Australia from the decision of the Tribunal. 
The Superior Court of Australia has jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals instituted in that Court in accordance with sub-sections ( 1 ) and (2 ). 
Except as provided by this Act and subject to the jurisdiction of the High Court under paragraph 75 (v) of the Constitution, a decision of the Tribunal shall not be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed or called in question, or be subject to prohibition, mandamus, certiorari or injunction, in any court on any account whatever. 
The Superior Court of Australia shall hear and determine the appeal and may make such order as it thinks appropriate by reason of its decision. 
Without limiting by implication the generality of subsection (5), the orders that may be made by the Superior Court of Australia on an appeal include an order affirming or setting aside the decision of the Tribunal and an order remitting the case to be heard and decided again, either with or without the hearing of further evidence, by the Tribunal in accordance with the directions of the Court. 
The Government, as would not surprise my good friend the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  cannot accept these amendments for the reasons to which he has adverted. There is a clear difference of opinion between spokesmen of the Liberal and National Country Parties and the Government on this matter. The Government holds firmly to the view that Australia's interests will be best advanced by the creation of a Superior Court. The emergence of this new branch of administrative law has been described by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  who is a Liberal Party spokesman learned in the law, respected in the law and with enormous prestige in the law, as one of the great advances in legal reform in Australia. This is something for which the Labor Government can claim credit. 
The Government believes it would be folly of the worst form to allow questions of law to go to Supreme Courts of the different States or Territories. In that way, in the long period of time, there would be no uniform system of administrative law emerging in Australia. One would have conflicting appellant decisions on what was the situation in this case or that. With the Government's determination to try to introduce a more rational system of appellant law in Australia the Government certainly could not accept these amendments. In passing I say- not in any formal sense although I appreciate that this is recorded and it is intended to be- that next week I hope to re-introduce the Superior Court Bill into this chamber. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 45. 
The Tribunal may, of its own motion or at the request of a party, refer a question of law arising in a proceeding before the Tribunal to the Superior Court of Australia for decision but a question shall not be so referred by the Tribunal constituted by 2 or more members, in a proceeding at which a presidential member presides, without the concurrence of that presidential member. 
Jurisdiction is conferred on the Superior Court of Australia to hear and determine a question of law referred to it under this section. 
Where a question of law arising in any proceeding has been referred to the Superior Court of Australia under this section, the Tribunal shall not, in that proceeding- 
give a decision to which the question is relevant while the reference is pending; or 
proceed in a manner, or make a decision, that is inconsistent with the opinion of the Superior Court of Australia on the question. 
The Government does accept the principle of the setting up of the Council. I think I have already indicated that to my good friend the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  However, the Government cannot accept the drafting that is to be found in this amendment. That is not meant as any offence. I should tell my good friend that following the last adjournment of the matter we made every effort to have the Parliamentary Counsel come up with what was considered to be a proper drafting. Unfortunately, with the pressures on them at this stage and with all their workload, it was just not possible to do so. I regret that as much as my good friend does. I put this to him for his information and consideration: On the drafting questions, for example, some obvious errors were made by whoever did the drafting. There were references to administrative review tribunal bodies that did not exist and matters of that sort. We would suggest that the staffing arrangements also are defective. But I would go further than he has gone and suggest that the Council as proposed by the Opposition's amendment is too narrowly based. I should have thought that it would have been better to cast the net a little wider because there are perhaps people in academia who might have the qualifications desired and who would be excluded by the language chosen. I give my good friend the assurance that when the matter is considered in the Senate, as I assume it will be, we will be moving an appropriate amendment to achieve the same effect. 
The Government believes that the amendment is completely proper. The reference made to the Australian Legal Aid office is to an office which is in existence. It does not have legislative form at this stage but I have publicly announced my intention that it shall have legislative form. Indeed, a Bill is being prepared at this stage which I hope will be presented to the House in the near future. I do not know whether it can be done this session or not but I hope it will be done in the near future. 
There are 29 legal aid offices already operating extremely successfully around Australia, with people beating a path to their doors. They are a very important part of the Government's proposals. We hope to establish more legal aid offices and have them continue to provide services for Australian litigants. I should say as well that I do not know what is in the mind of the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  but there is plenty of precedent for what is contained in the amendment. Indeed, the Family Law Bill has an almost identical clause. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please refer to House of Representatives Hansard dated 13 May 1975, page 2192. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament to pay to Tasmania, in accordance with the provisions of section 96 of the Australian Constitution, a sum not exceeding $650,000. Such payments are to be made in return for Tasmania providing financial assistance to Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd, subject to that company in turn maintaining employment at agreed levels. 
Briefly, the background to this matter is as follows: Last year concern was expressed regarding a possible shortage of printing papers. As a consequence, considerable quantities were imported, whilst at the same time Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd- the only Australian manufacturer of fine papers for printing and writing purposes- was also experiencing a high level of demand. Towards the end of 1974 it became apparent that very high levels of stocks were held by merchants and users of fine paper, and as a result orders for further supplies from the local supplier fell away dramatically. Consequently, APPM Ltd found its inventories of paper rising sharply. An inquiry by the Temporary Assistance Authority found that the company was not at present being threatened by imports, and the Government accepted the recommendation of the Authority that emergency protection against imports should not be applied. 
Orders on the company have continued at very low levels throughout 1975, and orders have been at a level considerably below the company's production. The company found that it was impossible to continue to amass stocks and was faced with the necessity of closing down large sections of its plant, which would have had particularly sudden and serious consequences in employment and social terms in the areas in which these plants are located, both for the families directly concerned and the many others indirectly dependent upon the company and its employees. 
Alternative employment opportunities in the areas concerned are very limited, and the particular areas which would be affected are heavily dependent on the company's operations. The Government considered it desirable that all steps reasonably possible to avoid such a serious situation should be taken. Because of the findings in the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority it was clear that assistance through the tariff was not appropriate. 
Because of the very high level of stocks held by the company, it has reduced operations in the coating plant of one mill from a 7-day to a 5-day week, and at other locations is working 3 weeks in every four. This has enabled retrenchments to be kept to a minimum, but still results in production in excess of demand. To permit a reasonable level of operations to continue, it is proposed that Tasmania will reimburse the company for interest actually paid, up to a maximum of $650,000, on a loan necessary to finance the accumulation of additional stocks. Tasmania will then be reimbursed by the Australian Government. These payments will only be made if the Minister for Manufacturing Industry is satisfied as to the reasonable maintenance of employment levels and other conditions, such as the provision of necessary information. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to clause 5 of the Bill. Apart from retrenchments resulting directly from the reduction in throughput I have mentioned, the company cannot, in terms of the agreement, undertake further retrenchment of employees before 3 1 December 1975 without the express agreement in writing of the Australian and Tasmanian Governments. Such agreement would only be contemplated in extreme circumstances, such as if stocks continue to rise and reach a level beyond which further stock accumulation would be untenable. The financial assistance proposed by this Bill is exceptional in nature to meet exceptional circumstances. It is not intended to be a generalised form of assistance. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The list of consumer groups having continuous liaison with the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards, that was provided by my predecessor in office in answer to the right honourable member's earlier question, was an exhaustive list. 

The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that there are as yet no oil or gas installations on the Australian North West Shelf. I am also informed that development of gas or oil installations on the North West Shelf are expected during the coming years. At the appropriate time attention will be given to arrangements to safeguard those installations. 
The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has had discussions with the United Kingdom authorities who are studying the problems of defending the North Sea installations. 
The answer to the right honourable member 's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 73 1 is given in Hansard, 6 March 1975, page 1238. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 732 is given in Hansard of 6 March 1975 (page 1238). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 733 is given in Hansard of 6 March 1975 (page 1239). 
The answer to the right honourable member's  quesion  is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 735 is given in Hansard of 6 March 1975 (page 1239). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 736 is given in Hansard of 1 7 April 1975 (page 1847). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 754 is given in Hansard of 6 March 1975 (page 1239). 
An answer to Question No. 1547 was provided on 10 April 1975 (Hansard, page 1556). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 1674 is given in Hansard of 6 March 1975 (page 1240). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) A review of the Bankruptcy Act to identify its present deficiencies and the amendments necessary to remedy them is now almost complete. The drafting of the amendments will be put in hand as soon as the necessary policy decisions have been made by the Government. 
Trade with China (Question No. 2289) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments made by the Prime Minister in his reply to Question No. 2243. (Hansard, 13 May 1975, page 2 198). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Replies were received from Tasmania, South Australia, New South Wales and Queensland. In its reply, New South Wales stated that it was not prepared to engage in the suggested discussions. 
Victoria and Western Australia. 
Queensland. 
The proposed discussions would have assisted in the arrangements necessary to ensure a smooth commencement of the proposed legislation and would have provided a useful opportunity for any other matter relating to this legislation to be considered. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
Yes, I am aware of such attempts being made to strike down the Australian Legal Aid Office. I can well understand the honourable gentleman's concern because it is intended to locate such an office in his electorate. Not long ago the stage was reached in Victoria where the political opposition to the Australian Legal Aid Office, which comes from the Liberal Party in that State, was such that I had to give, I think, $307,000 to the secretary of the Victorian Legal Aid Committee in order to help that Committee operate its own legal aid scheme. There is no doubt that one of the best pieces of evidence of the sudden lurch to the right in politics by the Liberal Party is to be found in its opposition even to such a socially desirable measure of reform as legal aid. 
I suppose the most recent example of this lurch to the right was a statement attributed to  Senator Greenwood,  made in the Senate yesterday on the matter of the Australian Legal Aid Office in Canberra. He said that the Canberra people had no need for an Australian Legal Aid Office. I claim to be better qualified to express an opinion on a matter of that sort than the honourable senator. The people of Canberra and, indeed, the people of Australia have a great need. Probably 5000 people a week resort to Australian Legal Aid Offices which are scattered around Australia. Already there are about 29 offices operating. They provide a valuable and much needed service by bringing legal aid facilities to people who have never had them before. It is predictable that the opposition to this development should come from the Opposition parties- the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. 
I move- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill was passed by the House in July last year, but failed on 26 February this year, on a tied vote, to receive a second reading in the Senate. To meet the requirements of section 57 of the Constitution, the Bill is presented in the form in which it was previously passed by the House. Had it not been for those requirements, some changes to the Bill would have been made now to take account of the creation of the Family Court of Australia under the Family Law Bill. The purpose of this Bill is to establish the Superior Court of Australia. I do not propose to repeat all that I have said before about the long history of this project. I invite the attention of honourable members to my second reading speech at pages 244 to 249 of Hansard of 16 July 1974, when this Bill was first introduced into the House. I do not think it is necessary to go through the provisions of the Bill again in detail. They have been described before. 
A considerable range of Federal matters is now dealt with by the High Court and by the other Federal courts. Industrial matters, trade practice matters, some appeals from administrative decisions of Australian Government Ministers and officials and some other matters are dealt with by the Industrial Court. This jurisdiction is exclusive of that of State courts. Developments in the past decade have seen the Industrial Court invested with an increasing load of jurisdiction for which it was not designed. The content of- Federal jurisdiction of a specialised character will continue to increase. New areas of Federal law are rapidly developing and the Parliament must concern itself with how these laws are to be administered in the courts. In family law there will be the choice between establishing special procedures, with judges specially selected for their aptitude for and interest in this field of law, or of leaving the administration of the new family law to the vagaries of 8 different systems of courts, only some of which have begun to move towards specialised family law procedures. Parliament has already recognised this by agreeing to the establishment of the Family Court under the Family Law Bill. In entering the important field of regulating the securities and exchange industry nationally, I believe that Parliament must ensure that there is a court adequately staffed and equipped with whatever resources are required for the effective administration of that law throughout Australia. The Parliament has no constitutional responsibility for State courts and cannot, under the Constitution, intervene in the organisation of these courts. The High Court has made it clear that, in investing State courts with Federal jurisdiction, the Parliament must take those courts as it finds them. 
Opponents of the Bill have made much of jurisdictional difficulties, and have alleged uncertainty of knowing whether certain matters may be dealt with at all in a Federal court. It is significant that always the same three or four examples are brought up. The difficulties would not affect the great bulk of jurisdiction the new court would be called on to exercise. When the Bill failed to get a second reading in the Senate, much was made by the Opposition of the United States experience as a reason why the Bill should not be proceeded with. The point was made that, in the United States, a person losing a case in State jurisdiction could then go to the Federal jurisdiction and have the result reversed on a point of Federal law. I need hardly say that this situation could not arise under the proposed Superior Court Bill. It could arise in the United States, because there the State courts do not have, and cannot be invested with, any Federal jurisdiction. Therefore, a point of Federal law could not be raised in a proceeding in a State court. These difficulties have been avoided in Australia by investing State courts with Federal jurisdiction. The Bill does not attempt to deprive State courts of Federal jurisdiction where the need might arise to have part of a case dealt with in State jurisdiction and part of it in Federal jurisdiction. 
The way will be open to a claimant, therefore to institute such proceedings in a court in which every aspect of the dispute can be litigated in the same proceeding. For example, a person claiming a payment under a contract as well as under a dishonoured cheque need not go to the Federal court. But there is no reason why all jurisdiction in bankruptcy matters, in Federal industrial matters, in income tax matters, in restrictive trade practices matters, to mention only a part of a large body of Federal jurisdiction could not be confined to Federal courts, because the kind of problem to which I have referred could not arise in such matters. Federal courts have exercised this jurisdiction more than satisfactorily in the past In industrial jurisdiction they have done so for more than 70 years and, in bankruptcy jurisdiction for more than 50 years. 
It is said that the new court will be costly to establish and administer. On this by way of answer I make 2 points. Firstly, the growing body of Federal law in new areas, such as consumer protection, administrative law, the regulation of the securities and exchange industry and perhaps even the area of race relations would, if administered by State courts, place an added burden on courts where there are already delays due to the volume of litigation. The work load on State courts and on Supreme Court judges is enormous. The appointment of Federal judges to administer this new jurisdiction would relieve the strain on State courts. There are already 18 judges in the Federal and Territory courts, and the consolidation of these courts into one court would enable a more rational use of the judicial resources we already have. Secondly, the Bill provides a structure which can develop as the work of the Court develops and as the need for specialist jurisdictions within the Court emerges. Thus it is comtemplated that the Court can be built up over a period of time, according to the manner in which its jurisdiction develops. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hunt)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3) Imports of pig meat, in terms of quantity and free on board value, together with duty paid on these imports since 1 97 1-72 are detailed in the table below. 
As information concerning freight and insurance costs is not published I am unable to advise the landed price for the various types of pig meat in 1973-74. 
I am unaware of any Government price support schemes in the countries of origin. However, allegations of dumping against imports of Canadian canned hams have been referred to the Department of Customs and Excise. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am hopeful that the matter will be brought to the stage where it can be considered by the Government in September 1975. Two actions have been in course concurrently for some time: the Industry Assistance Commission reference and the development of proposals involving a rearrangement of facilities. 
Yes, but the matter is both important and complex. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
In October 1974. 
The report deals generally with the problem of maintaining a stable workforce in the Government factories. This is a problem of long-standing and one which calls for continuing attention. An important task of the Committee of Inquiry was to investigate suitable work opportunities for the factories. It will be noted from the answer provided to  Mr Anthony's  question 1081 about non-military output of the Government factories that such work has increased substantially over the past year. Greater effort is being put into developing all sources of work, including the local proportion of defence requirements, work for other departments, overseas sales of the products of the factories and commercial work for private enterprise. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the question. It draws attention to a continuing problem which exists in many States. It has arisen in Western Australia in recent times. I received a letter from the  President  of the Law Society in Western Australia drawing my attention to the need for emergency funds over there. It is appropriate that honourable members be made aware of the problems in giving legal aid in this way because this can and does become a kind of bottomless pit. Probably every legal aid scheme in the world faces financial difficulties of this sort. In the case of Western Australia I am happy to let the honourable member know that I sent a telegram to the  President  of the Western Australian scheme this morning authorising a grant of $50,000 to give emergency relief of the kind which he seeks. It is a matter for some regret that the Western Australian Government does not provide as much assistance as perhaps it should because the Western Australian scheme is essentially the creature of the Western Australian Government. We have received the request for assistance and we have certainly responded with assistance. 
I conclude by informing honourable members that this Government was the first Australian Government to give substantial funds for legal aid schemes being operated in Australia. In the Budget $ 12.4m was provided for legal aid, including $2m for Aboriginal legal aid services. As honourable members know the Australian Legal Aid Office was allocated $8. 8m and it began its operations. Of that $8.8m, $3.7m is normally paid by the Office to the private profession which services the various schemes throughout Australia, and $ 1.3m was set aside to assist the various privately operated law society schemes wherever they might have previously existed and where they continue to exist throughout Australia. In the case of Western Australia, its per capita share of that $1.3m was about $90,000. This grant of $50,000 is in addition to that $90,000. 

 -Mr Speaker, I do not have any information - 
Opposition members- Oh! 

 -Mr Speaker - 
It has to be said at the outset that I have no power to require disclosure that would reveal links such as those referred to in the honourable member's question. But I have been informed that it is on record in this Parliament that in 1972 Federation Insurance Ltd, a prominent insurance company, paid $30,546.04 to the Victorian branch of the Australian Country Party and that in 1973 the same company paid $47,000 to the Victorian branch of the Australian Country Party - 
-Such payments surely indicate links of the kind that the honourable member has in mind. I am informed that the parliamentary records also show that in 1974, only last year, there was an expectation to pay from that company's funds to the Victorian branch of the Australian Country Party a sum estimated to be $60,000. 1 also have received information that in Western Australia alone in 1972 and 1974, both election years, the same company publicly presented at Country Party annual conferences cheques for substantial amounts of money. 
I move: 
Customs Tariffproposals Nos. 1 7 to 1 9 ( 1 975 ). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. Customs Tariffproposals No. 17 provide for the insertion of a new section 17B to the Customs Tariff. This new section is necessary to correct a deficiency in the customs tariff which arose following implementation, in December last year, of the Government's decisions on the Industries Assistance Commission's report on woven man-made fibre fabrics. The new section has been back-dated to 19 December 1974 to coincide with the original tariff change. 
Customs Tariffproposals No. 18 provide for the reduction in duties on a further group of commodities which have been added to Schedule A to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. The concessions have been backdated to 1 January 1975. Customs Tariff Proposals No. 19 provide for amendment of Item 35 in Schedule 2 to the Customs Tariff. The amendment is designed to facilitate free entry of unsolicited gifts and small commercial consignments on which duty is insubstantial. 
A comprehensive summary setting out the nature of the changes in the duty rates and the origin of each alteration contained in the proposals is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the question. I was correctly reported; but I would deny that the changes in the tariff in 1973 produced the result described by the honourable gentleman. Other circumstances may have produced a result that the honourable gentleman exaggerates, but they were not the changes in the tariff. There can be little doubt that Australians pay a very high price for the high level of tariffs with which we protect our industry. It was estimated some years ago by what was then the Tariff Board that if all the protection available was used the cost overall to the consumer- to the customer and to the average Australian who buys his goods- in unnecessarily high prices could be as high as $3,000m a year. 
There are other aspects of the problem, of course, in terms of the misallocation of resources, general efficiency and lack of efficiency in Australian industry. The real difficulty is that when governments try to improve the allocation of resources to make for more efficiency in the interests of Australians generally, this must be done at a rate of change that is manageable. In the international scene at the moment, because of the international situation in economic matters, that rate of change is a most difficult one to achieve. 
-I assume that the honourable gentleman refers to a decision reported as Sinclair against the Mining Warden of Maryborough and Queensland Titanium Mines Pty Ltd. The decision was handed down by the High Court, I think, last Wednesday. No written judgment is yet available but oral reasons were given. Briefly, the facts are that  Mr Sinclair,  on behalf of the Fraser Island Defence Organisation, appeared before the Mining Warden and was heard on environmental matters. The Mining Warden took a rather narrow view of his function under the Queensland legislation and actually did not conduct a full hearing. Indeed, it seems that he took the view that the evidence put by  Mr Sinclair  on behalf of the environmental movement represented only a sectional interest and was not to be equated or consistent with the public interest at large. 
The objector then went to the Queensland Supreme Court, for a writ of mandamus seeking an order that the Mining Warden conduct a proper inquiry, and failed there. He then took the case to the High Court, which unanimously held that the original inquiry by the Mining Warden had not been properly conducted. A mandamus was issued and if I have a correct report of what the High Court judges said unanimously, it was held that the environmental interest is much wider and much more important than the Mining Warden considered appropriate for it. I think the best I can do is to quote  Mr Justice  Gibbs, who said: 
It was clear that the Mining Warden considered that because Sinclair represented only a small section of people the interest of the general public would not be affected by the granting of the leases. 
Environmentalists can take considerable satisfaction from the decision of the High Court. I have conveyed the decision to the Minister for Minerals and Energy and also to the Minister for the Environment for their consideration. I should also inform the House, in conclusion, that legal assistance through the Australian Legal Aid Office was given to the objector and the environmental movement right from the beginning; in the hearing before the Mining Warden, in the hearing for the writ of mandamus in the Queensland Supreme Court and right up to the High Court. So it is a very good measure of the success of the Government's legal aid scheme through the Australian Legal Aid Office that this very satisfactory result was achieved. 
I am aware of the illegal trafficking and the export of Australian birds in the manner described by the honourable gentleman. The Department of Police and Customs conducts a very close and continuous examination of the situation trying to detect, as well as it can, breaches of the law. From time to time it has well publicised success and actions are brought in the courts which often result in convictions with very heavy penalties because the law takes a very serious view of that kind of offence. The matter is continually under review. I think that is as much as I can say in answer to the honourable gentleman's question at this stage. This offence is very difficult to detect. The exporters go to great lengths, showing great ingenuity to drug the birds and to hide them in false cases to get them out of Australia because great sums of money can be obtained for the birds overseas. It is a very difficult job to detect the offences but the officers of the Department of Police and Customs are continually on the watch for this offence and they do have considerable success in the rate of detection. 
An answer to Question No. 216, was provided on 6 March 1975 (Hansard, page 1238). 
An answer to Question No. 38 was provided on 6 March 1975 (Hansard, page 1238). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) The Australian Capital Territory The number of persons sentenced to terms of imprisonment from: 
1 January 1 972 to 3 1 December 1 972 is 98; 
1 January 1973 to 3 1 December 1973 is 104; 
1 January 1 974 to 3 1 December 1 974 is 90. 
The Northern Territory 
The number of persons sentenced to terms of imprisonment in the Supreme Court from: 
1 January 1972 to 31 December 1972 is 136; 
1 January 1973 to 3 1 December 1973 is 180; 
1 January 1974 to 3 1 December 1974 is 1 55. 
The answer to questions 2 and 3 for the Australian Capital Territory: 
I certainly intended to meet with State Ministers with responsibilities for police matters. Following upon a meeting that took place in Brisbane two or three weeks ago, I was party to arrangements which were to lead to a meeting which was to take place in Canberra this coming Thursday and at which, I hoped, we would have discussed the very matters that the honourable gentleman has mentioned. The arrangements were made because the relations between the police and the public are of continuing and great importance to citizens generally and to all politicians in particular. Of course, the creation of the Australia Police, with its opportunities for improving the relations between police and citizens, is a matter that should be discussed by Ministers from the Australian Parliament and the State Parliaments who have responsibilities for police matters. I regret to say that the request that I directed to the Leader of the Opposition for a pair in order to attend that meeting this Thursday has been refused. One hears the plaintive cries of the Opposition that greater attempts should be made to consult with State Ministers. No one tries harder than Ministers on this side to do that very thing. But the sullen sense of frustrated arrogance which comes through, reflecting the pique of the Leader of the Opposition who refuses pairs in a situation such as this, speaks for itself. 
I move: 
That the amendments of the Senate be agreed to. 
The Senate has amended the Racial Discrimination Bill in a number of respects, the most important of which are as follows: First, the power vested in the Commissioner for Community Relations to commence legal proceedings where he is unable to effect a settlement by conciliation has been removed. Second, the power of the Commissioner to apply to a judge to obtain evidence to assist the conciliation process and prevent its frustration has also been removed. Third, offences relating to increment and the promotion of racial hatred that are required by the International Convention have been removed. Amendments have also been made to the Bill to remove the provision making employers vicariously liable for the acts of their employees and vesting the Superior Court and the Industrial Court with jurisdiction in respect of proceedings commenced under the legislation. 
The Government will accept these amendments but I have to say that is does so with a total lack of enthusiasm. It would have preferred that the Commissioner, as representative of the public interest, should have had power to bring proceedings on behalf of disadvantaged persons, persons with language difficulties and persons who may be diffident about enforcing their rights under the legislation. The Race Relations Board of the United Kingdom has such a power. The Government would have much preferred to have had retained the power to require evidence to be given before a judge to assist in the conciliation process and prevent its frustration. This is a modified form of a power that is contained in the Canadian and New Zealand legislation, but it has been misrepresented by the Opposition as a 'star chamber' procedure. That is typical of Opposition posturing. The procedure is in fact under the supervision of a judge and provision is made for legal representation and legal aid. The sole purpose of the provision is to prevent the conciliation processes of the Bill, which the Opposition supports, from being frustrated by non- cooperation of persons alleged to have discriminated on grounds of race. The effectiveness of the Race Relations Board of the United Kingdom is widely recognised as being impeded by the absence of these powers and their absence in the United Kingdom permits the Board's attempts at conciliation to be virtually ignored. 
The Opposition has represented the provision as providing a procedure that is novel, but in fact it is a modified version of a provision that occurs in a great number of Acts of the Australian Parliament. The compulsory evidence gathering powers of the Commissioner of Taxation, the Commissioner of Patents, the Registrar of Trade Marks, the Director-General of Social Services, the Public Accounts Committee, the Industries Assistance Commission and royal commission provide just some few examples. The Government would also have much preferred the inclusion of the offences relating to incitment and the promotion of racial hatred so that the requirements of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination could have been followed more closely in Australian law. 
However, having made these comments on the amendments successfully moved by the Opposition in the Senate, the Government is nonetheless gratified that the main objectives and framework of the Bill have received general support from the Opposition. Opposition members could hardly oppose them. There is thus a substantial area of common ground between the Government and the Opposition on the philosophy underlining the main thrust of the legislation. The legislation will declare racial discrimination unlawful. It will provide comprehensive legal remedies. It will establish a Commissioner to examine complaints on a systematic basis and engage in conciliation. The Commissioner will have power to engage in programs of education and research to combat racial discrimination. 
Moreover, the legislation, even in its amended form, still has a number of features that constitute an improvement on the legislation of many other countries. It is new to Australia. We have not had it before. We should have had it years ago. It applies to a broader range of acts based on racial discrimination than is found in overseas legislation and contains fewer exceptions. It gives an aggrieved party the right to apply to the Courts for a remedy. The Commissioner is cast in the role of an independent conciliator and will have power to act on his own initiative as well as in respect of complaints made to him. The Commissioner will, in addition, have power to promote programs of education and research. The legislation will allow positive orders to rectify injuries caused, as well as injunctions. It will permit damages to be awarded as compensation for the distress caused by humiliation. It also has sanctions against the intimidation of a person seeking a remedy under the legislation. 
The legislation is a significant step forward in the development of policies for the promotion of human rights in Australia. The Government is proud of the initiative represented by it. I commend the Bill, as amended, for acceptance by the House. 
-I move: 
That the amendment of the Senate be disagreed to. 
The amendment proposes that a section of not less than two of the professional staff of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel shall be seconded to draft proposed laws, amendments and instruments at the request of members of the Parliament in priority to services for Ministers. 
The amendment is unacceptable to the Government for 2 reasons. First, in the opinion of the Government, the needs of private members would be less adequately met under the amendment than they are at present. Secondly, the amendment would seriously prejudice the legislative program of the Government of the day without a corresponding benefit to private members. 
Under arrangements that have existed for many years, the services of the official draftsmen are available to private members with one qualification- and one qualification onlynamely, that the Attorney-General may decline to provide these services in circumstances that would substantially prejudice the legislative program of the Government. In practice this qualification has not, under the present Government at any rate, prevented the reasonable requirements of private members being met expeditiously and efficiently. Assistance has been given to members of both Houses on numerous occasions and in many cases very substantial drafting work has been involved. 
I should say, for the assistance of honourable members, that the efforts of Parliamentary Counsel and the efforts of the Government to make Parliamentary Counsel available to Opposition members will continue wherever it is possible and reasonable to fulfil the services of members of the Parliament. The most common need of private members, and in particular, official Opposition spokesmen, is for amendments to current Bills. These are often required at very short notice indeed. Under the present system, the First Parliamentary Counsel is usually able to make available the services of the draftsman responsible for the Bill itself. The significance of this should not be overlooked. The draftsman responsible for the Bill is available to members. He is able to give guidance to the member in the light of his knowledge of the whole Bill and to deal with the matter quickly. Moreover, with the consent of the member concerned, the draftsman may be able to assist in reaching a form of amendment that would be accepted by the Government. 
If the Bill is amended as proposed by the Opposition in the Senate, it could hardly be expected that the services of draftsmen other than the two specifically allotted would be made available. Honourable members are aware of the enormous pressure that has been placed on Parliamentary Counsel in recent years. Parliamentary Counsel have the task of implementing the Government's legislative program. In these days, when the legislative program is so enormous, Parliamentary Counsel have a task that is of almost heroic proportions. They manage magnificently. Even if these draftsmen who might be provided for if the amendment succeeded were competent and experienced, they would scarcely be able to prepare satisfactory amendments in the time usually required because of their need to familiarise themselves with details of the Bill. I am speaking on the basis of what would be the position if the amendments become law. 
Moreover, acute problems of priorities among private members themselves would arise. For example, if 2 private members each asked for the drafting of a major Bill, the services of the 2 draftsmen could be fully occupied for months. How would questions of priority on that basis be decided? A private member could ask for the drafting of an elaborate Bill that would have no chance of becoming law because it did not have the support of the Government, and in the meantime the legitimate requests of other members for amendments that might be realisable could not be fulfilled. 
Any difficulties that arise under the present system- they are rare, and certainly less than they could be under the system envisaged by the amendment- would be attributable to shortage of skilled staff in the Office of Parliamentary Counsel to cope with the enormous work load that now exists. The First Parliamentary Counsel is making constant efforts to increase his staff and, if trained persons were available, he would be appointing them irrespective of the present amendment. It would therefore be a mistake to think that the amendment would merely require the creation of 2 additional positions which could be readily filled with competent and experienced draftsmen. 
I mention in passing that a member of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel will shortly be visiting England in connection with studies and interests that he has. I have authorised him to make informal inquiries when he is in the United Kingdom in the hope that perhaps we may be able to attract additional recruits to the Office of Parliamentary Counsel here in Australia. To sum up, the Government considers generally that the amendment made by the Senate would not be in the best interests of either private members or the Government. The Government asks the Committee to disagree with the amendment. 
-On behalf of the Committee appointed to draw up reasons for the House disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate, I bring up such reasons. (Thereupon the  Clerk  read the reasons as follows): 
Because the present arrangements for assistance to private members by the Office of Parliamentary Counsel are more satisfactory both to private members and to the Government than the arrangements proposed by the amendment. 
Motion (by  Mr Enderby)  agreed to: 
That the committee's reasons be adopted. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 31 December 1975 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 3 to 1 7 ( 1 974) and 1 to 19 (1975) introduced into the Parliament and not enacted to date. The tariff changes validated by this Bill relate to reports by the Tariff Board on- 
Fibreboard Containers, Paper and Textile Bags and 
Photographic and Cinematographic Apparatus, etc.;  reports by the Industries Assistance Commission on- 
Apparel Sections 1 and 2 
Certain Textile Floorcoverings 
Diesel Engines exceeding 1 500 kW 
Food Processing Machinery 
Foundation Garments 
Glass and Glassware 
Gloves, Mittens or Mitts 
Industrial Tractors 
Mushrooms 
Passenger Motor Vehicles 
Polyamide and Polyester Yarns 
Steam, Gas and Water Fittings 
Textile and Apparel Machinery 
Tyre Cord and Tyre Cord Fabric 
Woodworking and Metalworking Machinery 
Woven Man-made Fibre Fabrics and 
Yarns, knitted fabrics and towelling; and reports by the Temporary Assistance Authority on- 
Ball bearings 
Consumer electronics 
Domestic refrigerators, washing machines, 
Clothes dryers 
Injection moulding machines and 
Motor vehicle tyres 
I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
in reply-I rise to speak very briefly at the conclusion of this debate. With great respect, so much nonsense has been uttered by some speakers on the Opposition benches that their remarks must be put right. I remind honourable members of some basic facts related to the Australian shipbuilding industry. The subsidy that was paid to that industry in 1972-73 amounted to about $30m. There are 5 000 men employed in the shipbuilding industry. That means that the Australian taxpayers meet the wages bill of the Australian shipbuilding industry. There is nothing to be ashamed of in that fact; there is something to be rather proud of in it. But one should not lose sight of the fact that this support was a policy of the previous Government. It is a policy continued by this Government. Indeed, when the previous Government was in office protection to the shipbuilding industry was such that, for all practical purposes, a total ban was imposed on all imports. To use the expression of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  the industry was feather-bedded to that extent. 
Indeed, the shipbuilding industry was inefficient. There can be Utile doubt about that. One has only to search one's memory and to think of the case of the Evans Deakin company: My God, when I was first reading about the shipbuilding industry, probably 15 years ago, Evans Deakin was in a state of perennial crisis. When I first came into this Parliament in 1970, one of the first debates that I heard was on the crisis at Evans Deakin. The shipyards were located in the wrong place and, as the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  has pointed out, Evans Deakin cannot compete with Australian shipyards, let alone overseas yards. 
Let us put this matter in proper perspective. This Government for the first time has introduced an element of reason into the Australian shipbuilding industry. The subsidy has been put on a proper rational basis. The import policy has been changed. Ship imports will be allowed in only when an Australian shipowner can find a ship overseas that he can buy at a price cheaper than the subsidised Australian price. The Australian Government pays nearly half the cost of construction of an Australian ship. At the top level, the subsidy is 40 per cent. That is what Australian taxpayers, through the Government, contribute. Let me measure that in terms of the freight component that Australians pay on goods that are carried around the Australian coast. I have seen a figure- I draw on my memory for it- of approximately $9m a year. That is the unnecessarily high price for freight that Australians pay. Do not think that the Australian shipbuilding industry is not looked after, because it is. What is happening- every expert who is familiar with the subject speaks of it- is that there should be rationalisation. The 2 shipbuilding yards which do particularly well, which do not complain and limp and stagger from one crisis to another, are BHP at Whyalla in South Australia and the State Dockyards at Newcastle in New South Wales. They do very well. Their order books are extremely good. If time was available I could quote to honourable members examples of those orders. 
The honourable member for Gippsland misleads the House when he brings into the discussion Walkers Ltd at Maryborough. I was Minister for Secondary Industry when Walkers Ltd decided to close down. It had been flooded out for the fourth time in 18 months. When one went to its yards one saw the pole where the record flood level was recorded. Walkers Ltd was sick and tired of being flooded out. That had nothing to do with Government policy unless honourable members opposite wish to attribute floods to Government policy. I spoke to  Dr Hughes  who was the General Manager of Walkers Ltd. I said: 'Look, no one wants to see you put people off. What is the best answer? What can we do to help?' He said: 'Only if you gave me an open cheque every month would I keep going in shipbuilding. We should never have been here. It was a tragic mistake for the shareholders. The best thing that we can do is to get out of the damn thing. We should never have been in it and we should have concentrated on the thing that we do very well at; that is general engineering.' Walkers Ltd has concentrated on general engineering. It is doing very nicely because it was Government policy to assist such a company to do so. 
Honourable members have heard the honourable member for Bowman speak ad nauseam on that aspect. 
He comes from Adelaide. 
Enough is enough, when one hears the puny attempts by members of the Opposition who declaim: 'Blame the Government! Blame the Government! Blame the Government! ' The Government pays the wages bill for every worker employed in the Australian shipbuilding industry. Not only does it do that but also does it say to the ship owner who wants to have a ship built or bought somewhere that that shipowner cannot buy a ship overseas unless he can buy it at a price less than the subsidised price at which a similar ship would be available in Australia. That means finding a price overseas which is half the price at which it can be built in Australia. That is not a bad deal. The rationalisation process is taking place. It is working better than ever before and better than it did under the former Government when the shipbuilding industry limped from one crisis to another. The future of the Australian shipbuilding industry is sound. 
Bill agreed to. 
BUI reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)and (2)Yes 
No. 
See the answer by the Prime Minister to part (3) of Question No. 2243 and the matter raised in this question is within the compass of the Inquiry by  Mr Justice  Hope set in train by the present Government as the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1) and (2) Yes 
No. 
See the answer by the Prime Minister to part (3) of Question No. 2243 and the matter raised in this question is within the compass of the Inquiry by  Mr Justice  Hope set in train by the present Government as the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. 
in reply- I did not intend to rise to my feet but I have been provoked by the remarks of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder). 
-And predictably too, by the honourable member. I rise because of this sense of provocation. I confine myself to saying that it is a great pity in my view that he continues to regard the Northern Territory as though it is a foreign country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply- I intend to speak very briefly in the few minutes left this evening. I understand that there have been discussions with some honourable gentlemen on the opposite side and that there is an understanding that many of the remarks that they would like to make will be made in Committee when we continue the Committee stage tomorrow. May I just say that it warms my heart to hear the unanimous approval that has been given to this measure tonight. When I first entered politics, almost 5 years ago, I represented the Division of the Australia Capital Territory, that part of Australia which includes the city of Canberra, which consisted heavily of public servants and people affected by the decisions of public servants. Rapidly I became aware, if indeed I had not been aware already, of the great need for an ombudsman. I remember the deliberations of the Australian Capital Territory Branch of the Australian Labor Party that led to the formulation of the POliCY by that branch that we should have an ombudsman, at least for the Australian Capital Territory. This measure not only does that but it provides for an Australia-wide ombudsman and also for an ombudsman for the Northern Territory. 
Perhaps many citizens are not aware of the influence on their lives of decisions made by anonymous public servants. Those decisions affect the citizens to a very great degree. When one looks through the Bland Committee report, one sees a list that refers to what must be hundreds and perhaps thousands of discretionary decisions made by one tribunal and one body after another which affect the lives of citizens. Of course, it goes beyond that and extends to the allocation of houses of one kind or another, and the ombudsman, in company with the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, will give a measure of administrative justice that this country has not had before. As the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has said, the matter goes back a long time in history to the Kerr Committee report, the Bland Committee report and extends to the speeches that have been made, and now we have near finality the 2 measures. The Government takes considerable pleasure in being able to bring these Bills forward and it also takes considerable pleasure from the support that they have received from the Opposition. 
I understand that in the Committee stage, which we will enter briefly tonight and deal with at greater length tomorrow, the Opposition will be moving certain amendments. The Government certainly will be moving a number of amendments, and I understand that the Government amendments have the general support of the Opposition. These amendments are designed largely to increase the scope and the capacity of the Ombudsman. I can say to the honourable gentlemen opposite at this stage that perhaps we can accept some Opposition amendments. I will not be specific tonight; we can be more specific tomorrow. However, we will not be able to accept one or two of the Opposition's amendments, and tomorrow I will be giving the reasons for that. On that note, I take considerable pleasure from the support that has been given to the measure by the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
BUI read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clause 1. 
Progress reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The further discussions which my predecessor indicated in his answer of 22 March 1974 were to be held between my Department and the banks have recently been concluded. To the extent that the discussions have resulted in conclusions which provide for significant departures from the recommendations of the Manning Committee there will now be appropriate consultations with other interested bodies. The honourable member may rest assured that the preparation of this legislation is proceeding as expeditiously as possible having regard to its far reaching commercial significance. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Ready and equal access to the law and the legal process is the birthright of every Australian. The Government believes that if this is to become a reality under our federal system, State systems of legal aid have to be complemented by an Australia-wide system of legal aid. 
The Bill gives legislative form to the Australian Legal Aid Office as a legal service independent of government to provide legal aid in the Federal area through lawyers in the Australian Legal Aid Office and also in private practice. The Bill assumes that a large proportion of the work of the Australian Legal Aid Office will be referred to the private profession and provides accordingly. The Bill also provides for a better and more rational approach to the need for Federal grants to assist legal aid schemes conducted by State governments, legal professional bodies in the States and voluntary bodies. It establishes an Australian Legal Aid Commission to advise the Government upon legal aid, and provides for consultation at State and local community level with the legal profession and others. 
Action to make legal advice and assistance available to Australians on a nationwide basis was one of the earliest initiatives of this Government. On 30 April 1973 my predecessor announced Government approval of a grant of $2m- the first ever grant by an Australian government- as an interim measure to supplement the existing State legal aid schemes. On 23 July 1973 he announced the establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Office and the formation of the Legal Aid Review Committee under the chairmanship of  Mr R.  F. Turner to examine the whole question of legal aid in Australia. The first Australian Legal Aid Offices were soon established. 
The Government has had the benefit of 2 reports from the Legal Aid Review Committee, tabled on 3 April 1974 and 21 May 1975 respectively, and a discussion paper entitled 'Legal Aid in Australia' prepared by Professor R. Sackville of the Australian Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. These papers together with submissions from and discussions with representatives of the Law Council of Australia and legal professional bodies in the States and Territories provide a sound basis for this Bill. 
The Australian Legal Aid Office, created in 1973, is now well established with branch offices in all State capitals, Canberra and Darwin and 21 regional offices throughout Australia. The shop-front approach has been adapted to the problem of legal aid. Some 100 000 interviews have been conducted by lawyers operating from the 29 offices. The dedication of lawyers in the Office and acceptance of the Office by the public have justified the Government's view that the Australian Legal Aid Office is the best way to provide effective legal assistance to persons in need- particularly the socially disadvantaged. The hope that my predecessor expressed in his statement in the Senate that the lawyer with a social conscience would be attracted to join the Office has also been realised. 
The Government's belief in the need to present a new image of the law and the lawyer has been more than justified in the success of the 'shop-front' offices of the Australian Legal Aid Office that are taking the law to the people. They are attracting people who tend to be distrustful perhaps wrongly, of the law and of lawyers, who are inarticulate, who have language difficulties, who sometimes do not even recognise their problems are legal ones. 
The Bill makes the Australian Legal Aid Office an independent statutory body to give effect to the Government's view that lawyers in the Office should be independent- and be seen to be independent- of the Government. It makes it clear that a relationship of solicitor and client exists between the lawyers of the Office and their clients and that the rules of professional conduct and the ethical standards that apply to lawyers in private practice apply equally to lawyers in the Office. It expressly requires that the Office should be conducted so as to ensure that its activities do not prejudice the independence of the legal profession. 
The area within which the Office will provide legal aid is the area within which the Australian Parliament is empowered to make laws under the Constitution. In general terms this means matters arising under Federal or Territory law or in Federal courts and matters on behalf of persons for whom the Australian Government has a special responsibility, including persons on social services, newcomers to Australia, servicemen and ex-servicemen, Aborigines and students. A special area of relevance is environmental protection matters of national concern. Provision is made in the Bill for the 'means and needs' test of the Office, contributions by assisted persons and review of decisions by reference to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act. 
The Bill reflects the Government's expectation not only that the Office will provide legal aid in significant cases affecting the rights of people in need but that it will also contribute to community awareness on matters of rights and obligations, community education and assist the process of law reform. The general direction of the Office is given to a Board of Management of 3 members. The  Chairman  will be a judge or former judge or a private legal practitioner of high standing in the profession. The Director of the Office will be a member and the other member will be appointed after consultation with the Law Council of Australia. The provision for the Board will ensure that the Office benefits from the presence on it of persons learned and experienced in the private profession. 
The Bill provides for consultative committees to assist the Australian Legal Aid Office in the provision of legal assistance. The purpose of these committees is to ensure that there is liaison and consultation at State and local community level between the legal profession and others interested in the provision of legal aid and the lawyers in the Australian Legal Aid Office. This is the level at which aid is actually provided and involvement at this level is essential for the success of the Office in meeting the need for legal assistance in different States and different communities within States. 
In addition to establishing the Australian Legal Aid Office to provide legal aid, the BUI provides for an Australian Legal Aid Commission to carry out wide-ranging research and to give policy advice to the Australian Government and also to State governments and other bodies. The Commission has been established as a separate body from the Office on the view that the function of research and policy advising is quite distinct from the function of providing legal aid; that only a separate advisory body can give independent and objective advice to the Australian Government upon the roles of respective services and Federal grants to them; that the advisory body would be m a conflict of interest situation if it also administered the Australian Legal Aid Office; and that the wide role of the Commission as adviser to State governments and other bodies and as a body endeavouring to coordinate legal aid schemes throughout Australia requires demonstrable independence. 
The membership of the Commission will be drawn from all sections of the community so that the widest range of views and expertise are avail.able. I agree generally with the recommendation of the Legal Aid Review Committee in its second report concerning the initial composition of the 
Commission's membership. I propose to make appointments as follows: A Chairman, being a person of high standing in the profession; 1 member to represent the Attorney-General; 2 lawyers from private practice; 1 from a Law Society legal aid scheme; 1 from the Australian Legal Aid Office; 1 from a State salaried legal aid service; 1 from the Australian Council of Social Services; 3 from other organisations or persons interested in the provision of legal aid; and 1 person with expertise in law reform. The provisions of this BUI should be welcomed by the legal profession and by other bodies that are interested in the provision of legal aid to the citizen. One has only to compare the provisions of this Bill with legislation providing for State Government services to see how far the Australian Government has gone to involve the profession and the community in this Australia wide system. 
I am introducing the Bill now at the end  of the  present sittings so that reactions and comments of members of the Parliament, the legal profession, interested organisations and members of the public can be made known. All comments will be gladly received and studied. I hope that they will be made by the beginning of August so that the debate can be resumed in this House during the Budget session. I have already had the benefit of useful discussions and consultations with legal professional bodies. I intend to have further consultations with them and with other interested organisations and individuals. I hope that all interested persons will now take this opportunity to study the Bill and make their comments on it to the Government. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Chairman, I seek the leave of the Committee to move 4 amendments to clause 3 at the same time. 

 - Mr Chairman, I seek leave to move amendments Nos 5 and 6 circulated in my name together with the explanatory memorandum. 
I move: 
Add at the end of the clause the following sub-clauses: '(2) A person who is detained in custody is entitled, upon making a request to the person in whose custody he is detained or to another person performing duties in connexion with his detention- 
to be provided with facilities for preparing a complaint under this Act and for enclosing the complaint m a sealed envelope; and 
to have forwarded to the Ombudsman, without undue delay, a sealed envelope delivered by him to the person and addressed to the Ombudsman. '(3) Where a sealed envelope is delivered to a person under sub-section (2) for forwarding to the Ombudsman, neither the person in whose custody he is detained nor any person performing duties in connexion with his detention is entitled to open the envelope or inspect any document enclosed in the envelope. '. 
I wish to respond very briefly; so I also seek leave to speak to clause 5. 
The Government opposes the amendment, not out of any sense of being difficult but because we trunk it restricts the power or the capacity of the Ombudsman. As I explained to the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  the Bill has been drafted on the basis that the Ombudsman can go back in time. Indeed, if the honourable gentleman looks at clause 6, he will see that that clause is drafted on the assumption that the Ombudsman can go back in time, and there is reference to a discretion that relates to the Ombudsman not making the decision if he is satisfied that the complainant became aware of the action more than 12 months before the complaint was made to the Ombudsman. It would seem to us that, if the amendment were carried, a situation in which the Ombudsman has a duty, so to speak, to go back in time would be replaced by a discretion as to whether he goes back in time. We would have thought that that was not what the honourable gentleman seeks to achieve. It certainly is not what the Government wants to achieve. For that reason we oppose the amendment. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
Where a Minister furnishes to the Ombudsman a certificate certifying that the disclosure of information concerning a specified matter (including the furnishing of information in answer to a question) or the disclosure of the contents of any documents or records would be contrary to the public interest- 
by reason that it would prejudice the security, defence or international relations of Australia; 
by reason that it would prejudice relations between the Australian Government and the Government of a State; 
by reason that it would involve the disclosure of deliberations or decisions of the Cabinet or of a Committee of the Cabinet; or 
by reason that it would involve the disclosure of deliberations or decisions of the Administrator's Council established under section 4ZA of the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910-1974, the Ombudsman is not entitled to require a person to furnish any information concerning the matter, to answer questions concerning the matter or to produce those documents or records to the Ombudsman. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other enactment, a person is not excused from furnishing information, producing a document or other record or answering a question when required to do so under this Act on the ground that the furnishing of the information, the production of the document or record or the answer to the question would contravene the provisions of any other Act, would be contrary to the public interest or might tend to incriminate him or make him liable to a penalty, but his answer to any such question is not admissable in evidence against him in proceedings other than proceedings for an offence against section 35. 
A person is not liable to any penalty under the provisions of any other enactment by reason of his furnishing information, producing a document or other record or answering a question when required to do so under this Act. 
Subject to this Act, a person attending before the Ombudsman has the same protection, and is, in addition to the penalties provided by this Act, subject to the same liabilities, as a witness in proceedings in the High Court. 

 - Mr Chairman, I ask for leave to move together amendments Nos 8 and 9 circulated in my name together with amendment 1 (a) also circulated in my name. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
1 cannot say with certainty whether  Mr Coleman  did or did not receive them, but they were received by persons on the staff of 'The Bulletin' at the time they were written. 
No; he was formally in charge of the section which produced the documents. I refer the honourable member to my predecessor's answer to him on 13 December 1973 (Hansard, page 4823). 
The Prime Minister has informed me that the Commonwealth Literary Fund and the Australia Council's Literature Board have made grants to 'Quadrant' during  Mr Coleman  's editorship as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Postal Services Bill which was introduced into the Senate on 23 April 1975 contains a provision (clause 115(g)) which would enable regulations to be made prohibiting the sending of unsolicited indecent, obscene or offensive material by post. The nature of any regulations made under this provision will depend on the outcome of u review at present being undertaken into appropriate amendments to A.C.T. law in respect of distribution of unsolicited pornography. 
In the event of regulations being made to prohibit the posting of unsolicited indecent, obscene or offensive material, the use of post office boxes, whether in the A.C.T. or elsewhere, in connection with this activity would also be prohibited. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. 
Until 30 September 1974 public disclosure of the Register of Trade Agreements was prohibited by section 34 of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971-1973. The secrecy of that Register was then preserved by section 149 of the Trade Practices Act 1974, under which, however, the Register for all practical purposes ceased to be operative. Documents that are required by the Trade Practices Act 1 974 to be registered are open for public inspection. 
Publication 'Secrecy -Political Censorship in Australia'  (Question No. 2321) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments made by the Prime Minister in his reply to Question No.2243. 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The present rate of excise duty on distillate used in road transport vehicles is $0.04905 per litre. 
Compared with rate of excise duty applicable in December 1972 ($0.03850 per litre) the present rate represents an increase of $0.0 1055 per litre 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The following subsidies and bounties are administered by the Department of Police and Customs: 

 Agricultural Tractors Bounty- paid in respect of certain agricultural tractors produced and sold for use in Australia. 

 Book Bounty- paid in respect of the production in Australia of certain books. 

 Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty- paid in respect of production in Australia of cellulose acetate flake used in the manufacture of cellulose acetate rayon yarn. 

 Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty- paid in respect of the manufacture and sale for use in Australia of certain metal working machine tools. 

 Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy- paid in respect of the manufacture and sale of nitrogenous fertilisers used as such in Australia and on the import and sale of such fertilisers when prescribed conditions are met. 

 Refrigeration Compressors Bounty- paid in respect of the manufacture of compressors having an output of l.S kW or less which are subsequently used as a refrigeration component in the manufacture of other goods for use in Australia. 
Each bounty/subsidy is provided for in appropriate, individual legislation. Eligible claimants are dealt with by the Department both individually and through industry associations. 
No advantage is seen in this proposal due to the diverse nature of the several industries involved and the specific liaison maintained by the Department. 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1478. 
 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
576. 

The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
431. 

The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2 ) In respect of the bounties and subsidy listed in the answer to Question No. 2697, the information sought by the honourable member is contained in the annual returns to Parliament required by each of the relevant Acts. Such annual returns for the year 1974-75 will be tabled in due course. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the question because I too have had a number of inquiries about the matter and it has been the subject of speculation in the Press. Honourable members will recall the passing of the Family Law Bill through this House. It received the royal assent on 12 June 1975. There is a section in it, section 41, that requires me to confer with the various State Attorneys on the subject to give them the option of setting up family courts within the various States of the Federation. That consultation has been going on. I have attended personally on each of the State Attorneys, which has taken time in itself. The matter has been the subject of correspondence, and I can tell the House now that I have been informed by the Attorneys in each of the States, other than Western Australia, that they do not wish to set up a family court in their States. I imagine that the decisions in the States had to be considered by the respective Cabinets. New South Wales and Victoria were fairly early off the mark, but I was informed by the Minister for Justice in Queensland only a week or 10 days ago that Queensland does not wish to set up a family court in Queensland but would prefer the Family Court of Australia to operate there.  Mr McNeill  in Western Australia has told me that he prefers to set up a family court of Western Australia, and no doubt that will be done in due course there. 
There are other aspects that have to be considered. For example, the Act in its present form puts a limitation on the number of judges that may be appointed. It restricts the number to seven. In view of the developments I have outlined to the House, the number will now have to be increased. That will be the subject of regulations that I will be introducing into the Parliament in the not too distant future. There are the problems of acquiring premises, recruiting staff, having interviews, placing advertisements and providing for appeals within the Public Service for people who might want to claim that they should have a position. However, I am happy to tell the House now that the date when we hope to have, or will have, the Family Law Act operating is 5 January 1976. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 20-23 (1975) 
The customs tariff proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. These proposals formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by gazette notices during the last recess. The changes arise from the Government's decisions on the recommendations of the Textiles Authority in its report on certain yarns and textile products and of the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on nitrogenous fertilizers. 
Also included in the proposals are the addition of further commodities to Schedule A of the New Zealand- Australia Free Trade Agreement and a modification of the developing countries' preference in respect of toy balloons. Changes of an administrative nature in the footwear area of the tariff have also been made to remove certain redundant provisions. A comprehensive summary setting out the nature of the changes and the origin of each of the alterations contained in the proposals is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
I would be remiss for no other reason than the fact that I am the honourable member for Canberra in this House if I were not to say a few words in reply to the remarks of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who has just resumed his seat. One is continually surprised by the ability of the honourable gentleman to take a set of facts and twist them to his own advantage. The facts here are quite clear. One knows that there is indeed a great degree of inequity in the existing superannuation scheme. The honourable member for Curtin has conceded that. Yet he has said that in seeking to remove those inequities the Government is trying to win votes. The Government will always seek to remove inequities. The honourable gentleman has had the gall to say in defence of the action of his colleagues in the Senate that they are trying to save the taxpayers' money and that they are trying to think of other interested groups in the community. It is well known that this proposal will not cost the taxpayers any more money. It is just a more efficient and more rational use of the existing resources of the contributions being made. 
I can tell the honourable gentleman that the measure was thoroughly thrashed out in the party rooms of the Australian Labor Party before the final decision was taken on it because within the ranks of the Party there were a number of people who had expressed interest and concern lest the situation be what he had said it is. Every one of those doubts was put to rest because the measure was subjected to a thorough scrutiny and a thorough examination. It was referred to auditors and costed out. The Government went ahead with the measure in order to give a greater degree of equity to the quarter of a million or so public servants of the Australian Government. 
Lest the honourable gentleman should underestimate the feeling on this subject, I point out that it is my understanding that the Australian Capital Territory Branch of the Liberal Party of Australia took the view that the Government takes on the subject and made representations to people on his side of the House not to be stubborn, not to be foolish and not to try and. win votes in the way in which honourable members opposite are obviously trying to win them- by appealing to some kind of prejudice outside against public servants. I understand that that branch of the Liberal Party made such representations but that its appeals fell on deaf ears. The arrogance that so often comes forward from the Liberal Party when it deals with its own colleagues in the Australian Capital Territory and that we saw manifested over 23 years revealed itself on this issue. 
I should also tell the honourable gentleman another fact of life. When one speaks with the officers of the various white collar unions that speak for public servants on these matters one finds that they are almost united and speak with almost one voice on one aspect of this matter; that is, that if the amendments in the form that they have come to us from the Senate were to be accepted their acceptance would cause an even greater amount of inequity and place an even greater financial burden on public servants than the present scheme casts upon them- the present scheme that the Government knows to be wrong and wants to change and that the Opposition knows to be wrong but, speaking with 2 voices, finds a reason for opposing. That is all I wanted to say. The facts will speak for themselves. No doubt the people of Canberra and the other parts of Australia in which public servants live and work will also speak for themselves. 
-I move: 
That the House insists on disagreeing to the amendment insisted on by the Senate. 
Honourable members will recall this measure which proposed to make certain changes to the Parliamentary Counsel Act. The Opposition in this House sought to impose an obligation on the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel to provide certain assistance to Opposition members. The amendment proposed by the Senate is to the effect that a section of not fewer than two of the professional staff of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel should be seconded to draft proposed laws and amendments at the request of private members. 
The Government's reasons for moving that the House insist on disagreeing to the Senate amendment are the same as those which I put to the House on 3 June 1975 when the House considered the Senate amendment and disagreed to it. In short, those reasons are that the needs of private members would be less adequately met under the amendment than they are at present and that the amendment would prejudice the legislative program of the government of the day, without giving to private members a corresponding benefit. 
I should add once again to what I have said before, that it is the Government's intent to give every possible assistance to honourable members, including backbenchers, whether they be on the Government side or on the Opposition side. Honourable members will appreciate that the strains on the office of Parliamentary Counsel these days are immense. They are immense because of the Government's very energetic and industrious program of law reform. The measures that are put into this House which go to the Senate, sometimes to be rejected there, sometimes to have amendments made there and sometimes to pass there, cast a burden of legislative activity on the office of Parliamentary Counsel which has never been equalled in the history of Australia since Federation. Although we do try to make the services of officers available, it would be counter-productive to write in a law that they must be available in the ways in which the Opposition puts forward. As I have said before, the Government could not possibly accept that situation. 
I move: 
That Senate amendments Nos  1  to  19, 24  and  29  to  3 1  be agreed to. 
As the Committee will recall, these amendments deal with a number of matters. In some cases the amendments deal with substantive matters and in other cases the amendments are consequential upon amendments dealing with substantive matters. A substantial number of these amendments are consequential upon amendment No. 32. That amendment added a schedule to the Bill setting out those matters in which the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is to have jurisdiction immediately. The Senate amendments consequential upon Senate amendment No. 32 are Senate amendment Nos 1 and 7 to 1 3. 1 point out that some of these amendments were moved by the Government in the Senate. Senate amendment No. 2 provides for the terms and conditions of service of members of the Tribunal to be prescribed by regulation instead of being determined by the Governor-General. Senate amendment No. 3 is consequential upon this amendment. 
Senate amendments Nos 4, 6 and 29 are consequential upon Senate amendments Nos 20 to 28, omitting references to the Superior Court of Australia and substituting references to State and Territory Supreme Courts. Senate amendment No. 5 deleted a provision empowering the Minister administering the Act to permit a full-time member of the Tribunal to engage in outside paid employment. Senate amendments Nos 14 and 16 restrict to the Attorney-General the power to give a certificate entitling information or documents to be withheld from parties to proceedings before the Tribunal. Those amendments were moved by the Opposition. 
Senate amendments Nos 15, 17 and 18 clarify the grounds on which such a certificate may be given, and make consequential changes. Senate amendment No. 19 provides that a witness before the Tribunal may have legal representation. Senate amendment No. 30 inserts provisions in the Bill establishing an Administrative Review Council. The Government accepts and supports that provision completely. Senate amendment No. 3 1 amends the provisions in the Bill relating to the granting of legal aid to parties before the Tribunal. The substantial change is the omission of any specific reference to the Australian Legal Aid Office. On this point I take the opportunity to say that of course the Legal Aid Bill is coming along. It will be considered by this House in the not too distant future. The Government stands firmly committed to the proposition of there being an Australian Legal Aid Office although the Government recognises that at this stage the Office has no legislative context or background, save for, I think, reference in some Acts, particularly the Family Law Act. That is a matter at which the Government can look at another time in the future when, I hope, the Legal Aid Bill becomes law. 
Consequential upon the acceptance by the House of amendments Nos 14 and 16 of the Senate, I move: 
In clause 36, sub-clause (3), omit 'A Minister', substitute 'the Attorney-General'. 
In clause 36, sub-clause (4), omit 'Minister', substitute 'Attorney-General '. 
In clause 46, sub-clause (2), omit 'a Minister', substitute 'the Attorney-General'. 
I need not go over these amendments again. The matter has been the subject of debate on many occasions and indeed was touched on in my opening remarks and also by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  We accept the proposition and we think that the amendments improve the Bill. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
The  CHAIRMAN  Before you proceed,  Mr Minister,  I noticed that the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  spoke by leave. I wonder whether he was a little ahead of himself in speaking to the amendments that you are going to deal with. Perhaps if you intended to answer his remarks in that area you could answer them when you move the motion. 

 -Yes, Mr Chairman, I take your point. 
Amendments agreed to. 
I move: 
That Senate amendments Nos. 20, 21, 22, 23, 23, 26, 27 and 28 be amended by omitting the words 'insert "Supreme Court of a State or Territory" ' and substituting the words 'insert "Australian Industrial Court' ' '. 
Perhaps this is now the appropriate time for me to say a few words in reply to what the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  said with leave a moment or two ago. The Government of course takes a different point of view on the notion of a Superior Court from that taken by the Opposition. The history of the Superior Court of Australia Bill is well known. The Bill has been through this chamber twice. It has been through the Senate twice and rejected twice in the Senate. There are certain other aspects that are probably not so well known, and they are these: The federal courts of Australia are in great need of reform. The Industrial Court itself is in great need of reform. The Territory Supreme Courts are in great need of reform and in particular of having an appellate court to which they can readily resort. 
I say, just for the assistance of honourable members and particularly the honourable member for Bennelong, that it is my intention soon to introduce legislation that will not seek to create a Superior Court of Australia but which will seek to rationalise the existing federal courts in a much more modest way than was contemplated by the Superior Court proposal. The legislation will seek to establish an Australian federal court. Above that there will be, we hope, an Australian court of appeal which will take some of the original jurisdiction away from the High Court where it has often been said it should not be and also will serve as a court of appeal from the federal court and the Territory Supreme Courts. I just mention that to the honourable gentleman because I know he has a great interest in the subject. Indeed, so do other honourable members. It has been the subject of discussions with some of the High Court judges and some of the Territory  judges. When I put the legislation forward to this House I hope it will find general support. 
Amendments agreed to. 
I move: 
After Part I of the proposed Schedule, insert the following Part:- 
'PART IA- AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS BOUNTY ACT 
' 1a. Applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of- 
a decision of the Minister under sub-section 6 (S) of the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966-1973; 
a determination of the Comptroller-General of Customs under sub-section 6 (6) of that Act; 
a decision of the Comptroller-General of Customs under section 8 of that Act; (.d) a decision of the Minister under section 9 of that Act; 
a decision of the Minister under sub-section 1 1 (3) of that Act; 
a determination of the Minister under sub-section 1 1 (6) of that Act; and 
a decision of the Minister under sub-section 1 1 (8) of that Act cancelling the registration of premises '. 
Amend Part II of the proposed Schedule- 
by omitting from sub-clause (1) of clause 2 the words 'Director-General of Civil Aviation' and substituting the words 'Secretary to the Department of Transport'; and 
by inserting in paragraph (b) of sub-clause (1) of clause 2, before the figures '237', the figures and word '256 or'. 
After Part V of the proposed Schedule, insert the following Parts: - 'PART Va-BOOK BOUNTY ACT '5a. Applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of- 
a direction of the Minister under sub-section 3a (2) of the Book Bounty Act 1969-1975; 
a determination of the Minister under sub-section 4 
or (3) of that Act; 
a decision of the Minister under section 9 of that Act; 
a decision of the Minister under sub-section 1 1 (3) of that Act; 
a determination of the Minister under sub-section 1 1 (6) of that Act; and 
a decision of the Minister under sub-section 1 1 (7) of that Act cancelling the registration of premises. 'PART Vb-CELLULOSE ACETATE FLAKE BOUNTY ACT '5b. Applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of- 
decisions of the Comptroller-General of Customs made under section 9 of the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Act 1956-1973; and 
decisions of the Minister made under sub-sections 10 
, (4) and (5) of that Act. 'PART Vc-COAL EXCISE ACT 'Sc. Applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of decisions of the Collector under sections 12 and 16 of the Coal Excise Act 1 949- 1973. 'PART Vd-COMMERCE (TRADE DESCRIPTIONS) ACT '5D, (I) Applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of- 
decisions of the Comptroller-General of Customs made under sub-section 7 (3) or section 10 of the Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act 1905-1973 other than a decision in respect of which an appeal has been made to the Minister for Police and Customs under that sub-section or section, as the case may be; and 
decisions of the Secretary to the Department of Agriculture made under sub-section 1 1 (3) or section 13 of that Act other than a decision in respect of which an appeal has been made to the Minister for Agriculture under that sub-section or section, as the case may be. '(2) A person is not entitled- 
to appeal to the Minister for Police and Customs under sub-section 7 (3) or section 10 of the Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act 1905-1973 against a decision of the Comptroller-General of Customs made under that sub-section or section, as the case may be; or 
to appeal to the Minister for Agricutlture under subsection 11 (3) or section 13 of that Act against a decision of the' Secretary to the Department of Agriculture made under that sub-section or section, as the case may be, if an application has been made to the Tribunal for review of that decision. 'PART Ve-COPYRIGHT ACT '5e. (1) Applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of decisions of the Comptroller-General of Customs made under sub-section 135 (6) of the Copyright Act 1968-1973 other than a decision in respect of which an appeal has been made to the Minister for Police and Customs. '(2) A person is not entitled to appeal to the Minister for Police and Customs under sub-section 135 (6) of the Copyright Act 1968-1973 against a decision of the subsection of Customs made under that sub-section if an application has been made to the Tribunal for review of that decision.'. 
Amend Part VI of the proposed Schedule by inserting after paragraph (e) of sub-clause (2) of clause 6 the following paragraphs:- '(ea) a direction Of the Minister under paragraph 151 (8) 
a ) of the Customs Act;  '(eb) a decision of the Collector under section 1 5 1 a of the 
Customs Act; '(ec) a specification of the Minister under sub-section 157 (4) of the Customs Act; '. 
After Pan VI of the proposed Schedule, insert the following Part:- ' PART Via- CUSTOMS REGULATIONS '6a. Applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of- 
decisions of a Collector made under regulation 128b and sub-regulation 132 (2) of the Customs Regulations; and 
decisions in relation to drawback of customs duty made by the Minister or a Collector under regulations 129, 131, 133 and 134 (other than declarations by the Minister under sub-regulation 131(1)) of those Regulations.'. 
After Pan VII of the proposed Schedule, insert the following Part:- ' PART VIIa-DEFENCE FORCE RETIREMENT AND DEATH BENEFITS ACT '7a. (1) Applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of a decision of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority established under section 8 of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973-1974 in a case where, but for this Part, a request in relation to the decision could be made to that Authority under section 1 0 1 of that Act. '(2) A person is not entitled to make a request to the Authority referred to in sub-clause ( 1) of this clause under section 101 of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973-1974 in relation to a decision in respect of which an application may be made to the Tribunal by virtue of that sub-clause. '. 
After Part IX of the proposed Schedule, insert the following Part:- 
'PARTIXA-EXCISE REGULATIONS 
'9a. Applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of- 
decisions of a Collector under regulation 58 of the Excise Regulations; and 
b) decisions in relation to drawback of excise duty made by the Minister or a Collector under regulations 76, 77, 78, 78a and 78b (other than declarations by the Minister under sub-regulation 77 (1) of those Regulations.'. 
After Part XI of the proposed Schedule, insert the following Part:- 
'PART XIA-METAL WORKING MACHINE TOOLS BOUNTY ACT 
'11a. Applications may be made to the Tribunal for a review of- 
a decision of the Minister under sub-section 3 (2) of the Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Act 1972-1973; 
b) a determination by the Comptroller-General of Customs under section 5 of that Act; 
a decision of the Comptroller-General of Customs under section 9 of that Act; 
a decision of the Minister under section 10 of that Act; 
a decision of the Minister under sub-section 12 (3) of that Act; (0 a decision of the Minister under sub-section 12 (6) of that Act; 
a determination by the Minister under sub-section 12 (7) of that Act; and 
h) a cancellation of the registration of premises made by the Minister under sub-section 1 2 ( 8) of that Act. '. 
At the end of the proposed Schedule, add the following Part:- 
'PART XIV- TRADE MARKS ACT 
'14. (1) Applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of decisions of the Comptroller-General of Customs made under sub-section 103 (2) of the Trade Marks Act 1955-1973 other than a decision in respect of which an appeal has been made to the Minister for Police and Customs under that sub-section. 
A person is not entitled to appeal to the Minister for Police and Customs under sub-section 103 (2) of the Trade Marks Act 1955-1973 against a decision of the Comptroller-General of Customs made under that sub-section if an application has been made to the Tribunal for review of that decision. '. 
These amendments relate to Senate amer 'r -it No. 32 which sought to include a schedule giving instant jurisdiction to the Tribunal. I suggest that the Committee may consider these amendments together. They are numbered 5 to 13 on the list of amendments circulated by the Government. Honourable members will see from a perusal of them that they reflect the work that has been put into the subject during the parliamentary recess. The amendments now take the stage that we had reached when we last sat before the recess much further. As a result of negotiations with various government departments a whole sheaf of jurisdiction is now to be taken and given to the Tribunal. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Senate amendment No. 32, as amended, agreed to. 
Resolutions reported; report adopted. 
-I move: 
Excise TariffProposals No. 1 (1975). 
I move: 
The Government has great difficulty appreciating the reasons that the Opposition opposes this measure. One would have thought that in this day and age, in 1975, Australians of whatever shade of political hue or feeling would have agreed on one thing at least, namely, that Australia is a nation which today recognises, as far as its legal system is concerned, that the High Court is and should be the ultimate court of appeal from all Australian courts, whether those courts be part of the Federal system or whether they be part of the State systems. Yet, as is so often the case, the Opposition once again says that it will oppose the Bill, this time not because it claims that the measure itself is bad- no one could be heard to say that- but because somehow or other it finds offensive or objectionable the method chosen to achieve the end. One has to analyse the Opposition's motives. As so often happens when one listens to the speeches of Opposition members, one is forced to look around behind the words they choose to use to the purpose they seek to achieve. I listened with great interest to the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  who said that he would support a referendum proposal. Well, he might as an individual support such a proposal, but we all know the results of attempts made in this country to change the Constitution be referenda. This Labor Government more than any other government has tried to change the Australian Constitution by referenda, but it requires only one determined group of people, hiding behind the words with which they choose to cloak their real thoughts, to oppose a referendum for the community as a whole to oppose it. It seems that the Australian experience is that Australians vote no. 
In this situation the Australian Government is using the legal means available to it. There are different points of view, it is true, on whether a challenge would succeed in the High Court were it ever to be mounted. But there are views both ways. The Australian Government takes the view that it wants to go to the limit of constitutional power because it has to change the absurd situation whereby an appellant in a State system of courts- in the New South Wales Supreme Court or the Victorian Supreme Court or the South Australian Supreme Court or the Western Australian Supreme Court or the Tasmanian Supreme Court or the Queensland Supreme Court- can bypass the High Court and go to the Privy Council, thus setting up 2 different competing lines of authority. No dignified Australian in this day and age can tolerate such a situation. Australians belong to one nation, one nation alone. Yet the Australian Government, in trying to give effect to its policies, to see the High Court of Australia as the single and only ultimate court of appeal, once again is met with arguments from the Opposition to the effect that it does not really oppose the Bill but there must be some other way in which the Government should try to do this. It is the Opposition's credit that is at issue, the credit of the Opposition when once again it says: 'We know that what you are trying to do is the right thing. We do not really want to oppose you, but we are going to oppose you.' Then the Opposition searches, sometimes with incredible ingenuity, to find an additional reason why the measure that it recognises as being sound has to be opposed. So we see yet another example of this attitude coming from the Opposition. 
I am reminded of the peculiar situation that exists in Australia with its successively rigid Constitution. I have had occasion in recent times to make a number of speeches on this issue. One was a speech I gave in Perth, Western Australia, a little while ago, titled 'Barriers to ReformPolitics of Opposition'. I tried to deal with the opportunities that are given to an Opposition that controls the Senate to thwart, frustrate and delay the proposals that are put forward by a popularly elected government. One can think of examples other than the Privy Council (Abolition of Appeals) Bill that we are discussing tonight. One thinks of the legislation that relates to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority and the electoral reforms that we have tried to put through. One could go on. I think there are some 30 Bills which have been rejected by the Senate since the double dissolution in May of last year. Those Bills are resting in the bank, so to speak, and testify to the unreasoning opposition of the Opposition in the Senate in particular where the Opposition has the numbers. An Opposition that lost an election is able in the Senate to stop a Government that won an election from carrying out its policies. 
Surely there is no greater example to be found of this ability than in respect of this legislation. The Opposition says: 'Look, we know that the measure is good, but we are going to block it anyway'. The Opposition comes along and says in this respect: 'We disapprove of this particular legal method'- no one argues that is an illegal method- 'of achieving your end'. The Opposition claims that in some way it is undignified for Australia to take this one additional step towards nationhood in this way, when such action is the only legal way open to the Government. We heard the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  say: 'Do not use this legal method that is open to you. Use another one', when he knows full well that the whole experience of Australia since Federation is that the method that he puts forward as the one that we should try is doomed to failure. 
I will not take up the time of honourable members very much longer on this matter. We know the attitude of the Opposition. We know that the Opposition has declared itself on this legislation. This is one further example of the attitude of the Opposition when its members rise in this place to say that it is right and proper- that is the effect of their words if not the meaning of their wordsthat Australians should not use their own High Court but in six different ways from six different parts- called States- of Australia should be able to appeal to a supreme judicial body in another country that increasingly is a foreign country to Australia notwithstanding its very close historic ties with Australia. The Privy Council of the United Kingdom and of the Commonwealth should rule on appeals from New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania, often perhaps in different ways, when that body and the United Kingdom are obsessed with their own concerns. That is what the Opposition says. 
The Privy Council is not familiar really with Australian law. Australian law is going its own way. It has been going that way for many, many years now. The United Kingdom has been going ever increasingly into Europe as its entry into the European Economic Community and similar developments of that sort prove. Yet here in 1975 the Opposition- the Liberal Party and the National Country Party- is able to say that a situation should exist by which the Privy Council located in England should rule on what is the law in, say, New South Wales, or what is the correct legal solution to a problem between 2 Australian citizens living in Hobart or Perth, merely because the Australian Government, according to one view, does not have the constitutional power to say what the Canadian Government said back in about 1933. They would have this absurd and very dangerous situation continue whereby we cannot give ourselves the symbols and dignity of nationhood. 
This is an absurd situation in 1975,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  This attitude does not do the Opposition any credit at all. It brings discredit on the Opposition. I can only hope that people listening to the broadcast of these proceedings from the Australian Parliament, immediately after the presentation of the Budget, will realise what is happening in the House of Representatives tonight after the presentation of that Budget and not related to it at aU. The proposal to abolish appeals from the State supreme courts to the Privy Council in London is being opposed by the Opposition. No matter what the members of the Opposition say, the effect of their actions is to oppose the proposal. The Opposition says: 'Of course we cannot say that it is not a desirable measure, but you must find a better way to do it'. But the only way the Opposition can suggest is a referendum when it knows that invariably when this Government puts forward referendum proposals the Opposition opposes them and its very opposition frustrates the attempts to change the Australian Constitution. 
Many people in Australia increasingly, I hope, are becoming aware of the rigidity of the Australian Constitution and its complete and total inadequacy to meet the needs of Australians in 1975. Yet here and now we see another example of Liberal-Country Party people saying: 'There must be some way that you can do it'. They know full well that the way that they put forward will not succeed. They know that the Statute of Westminster exists. They know that the provisions contained in it have often been commented upon. They know that it is a legal way. For some reason or other they simply say: 'Do not use it. Use the referendum procedures', when we know that they will oppose those measures at another time. So Australia must limp along. Australia is one of the few countries in the world whose people must appeal not to its own courts but to somebody else's court in another part of the world. It may not be irrelevant if I mention tonight that there was a report, which is probably true, although not officially confirmed- I think that should not prevent me from using it- of the Bartons having succeeded in their case in Paraguay. The reason they succeeded is not unrelated to the matter about which I am talking because a United Kingdom treaty of 1908 may have been held to be not applicable to Australia in 1975. How absurd! 
The Whitlam Labor Government tries to make changes, tries to develop treaty relationships and tries to develop the legal apparatus appropriate for an independent nation- not for 8 different nations; not for New South Wales as a nation and Victoria as a nation, each as different from the other as France is different from the Soviet Union, as the members of the Opposition would sometimes like them to be. We do not wish that the Australian Capital Territory should be as different from the Northern Territory as Spain is from Portugal. But when we try to develop a single coherent set of courts with a single appellate system and we use the only practical and legal means available to us, the Opposition opposes us. The Opposition does not challenge the legality of those means but chooses to find some strange and political form of words to seek to use its numbers in the Senate to block the measure. In 1975, 1976, 1977 and 1978, and for all we know in the year 2000 if the Opposition has its way and continues to control the Senate, Australians will still be required to appeal from the Supreme Court of, say, Western Australia not to our own High Court but to the Privy Council in England. One despairs of continuing to have patience with the Opposition when it persists with this nonsense. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments made by the Prime Minister in his reply to Question No. 2243, (Hansard, 13 May 1975, page 2198). 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' (Question No. 2327) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The  President  and all  Deputy  Presidents of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have the rank and status (but not in all cases the designation) of a Judge of the Australian Industrial Court. As many  Deputy  Presidents as are necessary from time to time may be appointed to the Commission. At the present time, the  President  and ten  Deputy  Presidents hold such positions. At the present time no other person holds such rank and /or status in any position under legislation of the Australian Parliament. 
Aircraft: Non-smoking Seats  (Question No. 2422) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia's application for extradition of the Bartons is now before the Court in Paraguay. 
The Bartons are confined in jail. I am unable to give any information concerning the source of their funds. 
No. 
Yes. The Australian Government's request for the extradition of the Bartons was made at the request of the Attorney-General of New South Wales. Federal and State legal officers are at present in Asuncion for the purpose of assisting in the proceedings. 
While there are limits to the extent to which any legislation by itself can prevent frauds, the proposed Corporations and Securities Industry Act will materially assist in this regard. It would be inappropriate to comment on allegations against the Bartons which are sub judice. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Prime Minister in reply to Question No. 2586 (House of Representatives Hansard 5 June 1975, page 3545). 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2586, which appeared in Hansard (page 3545) on 5 June 1975. 
Report of Working Party on Medical and Surgical Aids and Appliances (Question No. 2624) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An answer to Question No. 1986 was provided on 4 June 1975 (Hansard page 3377). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Prime Minister in reply to Question No. 2789 (House of Representatives Hansard 5 June 1975, p. 3546-47). 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2789 which appeared in Hansard (pages 3546-7) on 5 June 1975. 
The honourable gentleman's concern about the Barton situation is understandable. There would be great difficulties, of course, in adopting the suggestion that he makes because, as he points out himself, it is an allegation. Whatever relationship exists between the Bartons and the New South Wales Liberal Government is also a matter on which I should not comment. I can inform the House of some facts that were just given to me a moment or two ago. We received advice from informal sources yesterday that the court hearing in Paraguay had resulted in failure of the application for extradition. I am told that our representative in Paraguay has now received an authentic copy of the judgment of the Paraguayan court. The judgment runs to 44 pages and it is in Spanish. The judgment is being translated at top speed by several translators and my Department hopes to have a full analysis in Canberra by cable tonight. 
All that can be said at this point is that the application for extradition has been refused by the judge of first instance and that one of the grounds is the non-application to Australia of the 1908 treaty between Paraguay and the United Kingdom. However, there appear to be several other grounds. The Fiscal-General, who is the Paraguayan official charged with the presentation of the case for extradition, has said that he will appeal, and he and our local Paraguayan lawyers have expressed optimism as to the result of the appeal. However, it may be some months before the result of the appeal is known. We will be conferring with the Department of Foreign Affairs today with a view to a diplomatic request being made that the appeal be lodged and all other appropriate steps be taken to secure the extradition of the Bartons. 
I move: 
Add at the end of the clause the following sub-clause:- 
Where a board, committee or other unincorporated body constituted by 2 or more persons is empowered by an enactment to make decisions, sub-section ( 1 ) applies as if the board, committee or other body were a person empowered to make those decisions.'. 
The purpose of this amendment is to insert a new sub-clause (2) to make it clear that clause 10 applies to the actions of a board, committee or other unincorporated body as well as to the actions of a body corporate or an individual person. I do not think it is necessary for me to say any more than that on the subject. I understand that the Opposition consents to this amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 11 to 13- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 14. 
Before entering any premises occupied by a Department or prescribed authority, an authorized person shall inform the principal officer of the Department or authority of his intention to enter the premises. 
An authorized person is not entitled, by virtue of this section, to inspect documents on premises occupied by a Department or a prescribed authority except by arrangement with the principal officer of the Department or prescribed authority. 
A reference under this section to an authorized person includes a reference to the Ombudsman and a Deputy Ombudsman. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3) after 'entering' insert, ', for the purposes of an investigation under this Act, . 
Leave out sub-clause (4), substitute the following subclauses: 
For the purposes of an investigation under this Act, an authorized person is' entitled to inspect any documents relevant to the investigation kept at premises entered by him under this section, other than documents in respect of which a Minister has furnished a certificate under sub-section 9(3), at a reasonable time of the day arranged with the principal officer of the Department or prescribed authority concerned. (4a) Sub-section (4) shall not be taken to restrict the operation of section 9. '. 
The first of my amendments relates to sub-clause (3) of clause 14 which requires an authorised person to inform the principal officer of a department or a prescribed authority of his intention to enter premises occupied by the department or the prescribed authority. It was intended that this would apply only where the entry is to be made for the purposes of an investigation under the Act. The proposed amendment would make this intention explicit. 
As to the second amendment, I need only say that sub-clause (4) of clause 14, which would require an authorised person conducting an investigation on the premises of a department or prescribed authority to arrange with the principal officer of the department or authority for the inspection of documents on those premises, was intended to ensure that there was no undue interference with the normal working of the department or the authority and to give an opportunity for a Minister's certificate to be obtained in respect of any classified documents that ought not to be produced to the ombudsman. On reflection, and as drafted, it seemed it could have the effect that the ombudsman could not inspect any documents except with consent. That could well produce, in a theoretically remote situation perhaps, a veto situation, which no one would want. No State ombudsman is subject to such a restriction. The sub-clause has been criticised as an undue limitation on the powers of the ombudsman. The proposed amendment is intended to give effect to the original intention. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 15 to 18- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 19. 
The first reports under this section shall be submitted as soon as practicable after 30 June 197S, and shall relate to the operations of the Ombudsman during the period that commenced at the commencement of this Act and ended on that date. 
Where the Ombudsman refers in a report prepared by him in pursuance of sub-section ( 1 ) to an investigation made by him under this Act, the Ombudsman shall not, in referring to the investigation, set out opinions that are, either expressly or impliedly, critical of a Department, prescribed authority or person unless the Ombudsman had complied with subsection 8 (5) in relation to the investigation. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause ( 5 ) leave out "1975", substitute " 1 976 ". 
Honourable members will see that this amendment seeks to substitute ' 1 976 ' for ' 1 975 ', which is a consequence of the passage of dme. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
I now move: 
After clause 1 9 insert the following clause in Part II: -  1 9a. ( 1 ) The Ombudsman may, from time to time, submit to the Minister, for presentation to the Parliament, a report of the operations of the Ombudsman during a part of a year or a report concerning a particular investigation or particular investigations carried out under this Act. 
The Ombudsman shall not, in a report submitted to the Minister under sub-section (1), refer to an investigation in relation to which he has made a report in accordance with sub-section IS (2) unless he is of the opinion that action that is adequate and appropriate in the circumstances has been taken with respect to the matters and recommendations included in that report. 
The Minister shall cause a report submitted to him under sub-section (1) to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after its receipt by the Minister. 
Where an Ombudsman refers in a report submitted under sub-section ( 1) to an investigation made by him under this Act, the Ombudsman shall not, in referring to the investigation, set out opinions that are, either expressly or impliedly, critical of a Department, prescribed authority or person unless the Ombudsman has complied with subsection 8 ( 5 ) in relation to the investigation. '. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clause 20 agreed to. 
Clause 21. 
1 ) An Ombudsman shall be appointed by the GovernorGeneral. 
An Ombudsman holds office on such terms and conditions (if any) in respect to matters not provided for in this Act as are determined by the Governor-General. 
As I indicated before, the Goverment, cannot accept amendment No. 4 which has been proposed by the Opposition, notwithstanding the attempts by both previous speakers, that is the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  and the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  to persuade us to do so. We suggest that the principle is quite wrong and that it would be quite unworkable. I listened with great interest to the description of the parliamentary context in which an ombudsman would operate. I found myself not disagreeing with anything which I heard the honourable member for Bennelong say. But I also found myself thinking that judges, High Court judges and all manner of appointments are properly the responsibility of governments. If governments fail in that responsibility they are answerable here. I also had to remind myself, prompted by what the honourable member for Wentworth said, that one has to bear in mind the nature of party politics. 
I suggest to the honourable member with the greatest respect that it would be asking too much of a Senate, an Upper House divided as it is at certain times in a nation's history and often under the control- if I may say this- of an alliance of influences with Opposition and independent senators holding views which are not reflected in the House of Representatives. The appointment of such a serious or important position as ombudsman could become a plaything of party politics and could be abused. I do not want to turn the debate on this matter into a party harangue. I think that would be quite wrong. I invite both honourable gentlemen to reflect on how such a situation could be abused by party politics in the other place. I put to the honourable gentlemen: What would happen if the House of Representatives took a view about candidate A and the Senate took a view different from that and put forward candidate B? How would that difference of opinion be resolved according to the amendment which the Opposition has proposed? It would be a deadlock and we would not have an ombudsman. 
Surely the correct principle to apply is the time-honoured one that governments appoint people to fill positions of this sort. If the government of the day does not appoint proper people it is rightly criticised. It is answerable here. Do not take away that position and give it to something which, in a nebulous way, is called the Parliament when behind the Parliament rests a whole range of competing influences which often are the result of party factions and differences. I say to the honourable member for Wentworth that the Government certainly will take into account his description of the qualities required of an ombudsman. We certainly do not want a damp squib. As he will appreciate we have already put a lot of thought into the question of who might be a proper appointee. There is no doubt that this Bill will become law in one form or another in the not too distant future. It is a matter of considerable concern to us that he should be the right person, man or woman. Surely it is the responsibility of government- not the responsibility of either House of Parliament, with all the interminable disputes which we know only too well, to our dismay, can take place between both Houses. 
Amendments No.15 and No. 16 circulated in my name are both consequential upon the insertion of the new clause 1 9a. 
The Government will not oppose this amendment. But in saying that I say it with no great degree of enthusiasm. It is an arguable point. We try to be realists and appreciate the situation that developed in the Senate with regard to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill where a similar move succeeded. But the Government does not have any strong views on the matter. Probably I would lean towards leaving in sub-clause (1). I certainly do not feel sufficiently about the amendment to oppose it. One is driven back to this thought: If we have the right Ombudsman- we will certainly try hard to have the right person in that position- we have to give him a great degree of independence. We think on balance that is the position. We will not oppose the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 33, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 34. 
1 ) The Ombudsman may, by instrument in writing, delegate to a Deputy Ombudsman, to a member of the staff referred to in sub-section 31 (1) or, with the consent of the Minister, to any other person any of his powers under this Act, except this power of delegation or the power to report under section 15, 16, 17, 18 or 19. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) leave out ' 1 8 or 1 9 ', substitute '18, 1 9 or 19A'. 
This amendment is consequential upon the earlier amendments I moved, I think Nos. 14 and 15, which are consequential upon the insertion of a new clause 19a. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 35. 
1 ) In this section, 'officer' means- 
the Australian Ombudsman; 
a Deputy Australian Ombudsman; 
a person who is a member of the staff referred to in sub-section 3 1 ( 1 ); or 
a person, not being a person referred to in paragraph (b) or (c) to whom the Australian Ombudsman has delegated any of his powers under section 34. 
Subject to this section, an officer shall not, either directly or indirectly, except in the performance of his duty as an officer, and either while he is, or after he ceases to be, an officer, make a record of, or divulge or communicate to any person, any information acquired by him by reason of his being an officer, being information that was disclosed or obtained under the provisions of this Act. 
Penalty: S500. 
Where a Minister furnishes to the Ombudsman a certificate in writing certifying that- 
the disclosure of information or documents concerning a specified matter or matters included in a specified class of matters; or 
the disclosure of a specified document or of documents included in a specified class of documents, would be prejudicial to the defence or security of Australia or would otherwise be contrary to the public interest, an officer shall not, either directly or indirectly and either while he is, or after he ceases to be, an officer, except as provided in subsection (5)- 
divulge or communicate to any person any information acquired by him under the provisions of this Act concerning such a matter or such a document; 
) divulge or communicate any of the contents of such a document to any person; or 
furnish such a document, or a copy of, or an extract from, such a document, to any person. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years. 

 - Mr Chairman, I have 3 amendments to clause 35 circulated in my name. If it is appropriate I shall move them all together. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause ( I ) add to the end of paragraph (d ) 'or who is an authorised person'. 
In sub-clause (2) leave out 'except in the performance of his duty as an officer, '. 
After sub-clause (2), insert the following sub-clause: (2a) Sub-section (2) does not prevent an officer- 
from making a record of, or divulging or communicating to any person, information acquired by him in the performance of his duties as an officer and for purposes connected with the performance of the functions of the Ombudsman under this Act; or 
from divulging or communicating information to a person- 
if the information was furnished by an officer of a Department or prescribed authority in the performance of his duties as such an officer- with the consent of the principal officer of the Department or authority or of the responsible Minister; or 
if the information was furnished by a person otherwise than as set out in sub-paragraph (i)- with the consent of the person who furnished the information. '. 
Amendment No. 18, that is the first amendment to clause 35, relates to a clause which imposes a duty of secrecy. In its original form it was not  comprehensive enough. It was intended to apply to all persons who were entitled under the Act to access to documents or other information. As drafted it does not extend to all persons who may be authorised to enter premises and conduct an investigation under clause 14 of the Bill. The amendment is designed to correct this deficiency. 
Speaking briefly to amendment No. 19, the obligation of secrecy imposed by sub-clause (2) of clause 35 of the Bill has been criticised as leaving it uncertain whether the Ombudsman may disclose any information he obtained otherwise than where the Bill imposes on him a duty to do so as, for example, where he has a discretion to make a report. This amendment and the following amendment are designed to maintain the general obligation of secrecy but to make it clear that it does not prevent the disclosure of information for the purposes of the Ombudsman carrying out his functions under the Bill. The amendments do not affect the strict duty to maintain secrecy in respect of matters referred to in a certificate of a Minister given in accordance with subclause (4) of clause 35. Amendment No. 20 inserts new sub-clause (2a). I think it speaks for itself. 
I understand so,  Mr Chairman. 
Amendments agreed to. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (4), paragraph (b), omit the words 'be prejudicial to the defence or security of Australia or would otherwise' substitute 'for a reason specified in the certificate being a reason referred to in paragraphs 9(3) (a), (b), (c) or (d) 
The amendment circulated by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  would delete the words 'or would otherwise be contrary to the public interest'. The Government opposes that because it takes the view that that would leave the whole issue very much at large- far too much at large. The Government recognises also, of course, that some compromise is perhaps appropriate. It is for that reason that the Government has moved its own amendment which would take out the words 'would be prejudicial to the defence or security of Australia or would otherwise' and substitute the words 'for a reason specified in the certificate'. The reasons for this amendment were referred to when we dealt with sub-clause (6) of clause 9. If one examines that clause one will find that we have inserted the test in that clause. In that way, we hope that we have achieved some degree of consistency and have improved the Bill as a whole. 
-I move: 
After clause, 36, insert the following clause: - 36A. Civil proceedings do not lie against a person in respect of loss, damage or injury of any kind suffered by another person by reason of- 
the making of a complaint to the Ombudsman under this Act; or 
the making of a statement to, or the furnishing of a document or information to, a person, being an officer within the meaning of section 35, for the purposes of this Act.'. 
The members of the Committee will recall that we deleted sub-clause (6) of clause 9. That was done for the reasons given at the time. I indicated at that stage that the Government would be seeking to insert proposed new clause 36a. Many criticisms were directed at sub-clause (6) of clause 9. One of those criticisms was that it would be restricted to a person attending before the Ombudsman, much as a person attends before a court on subpoena. It would attract only the circumstances described in clause 9(6) where there was an element of compulsion. It was certainly desired to give wider protection rather than have the narrow situation where there was compulsory attendance dependent upon a subpoena. For that reason the Government has moved proposed new clause 36A to take the place of clause 9(6). It seems to me to be straightforward. 
Perhaps I could respond to what my friend, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has said. This Government obviously will keep the working of the Bill- or the Act, as it will be- under close review. It is an innovation to have an ombudsman system operating in Australia at the federal level. I have no doubt that there will be reasons for amendments with the passage of time and with the accumulation of experience. It is consistent with our intention to give the office of Ombudsman a very high status in the country that a clause such as proposed new clause 36a should be included in the Bill. If we do not have a clause like 36a and we do not have men and women of the highest calibre filling the role of Ombudsman then that office will not have the status that it should have and it will not be listened to with the respect that it should attract. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 25 (1975). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. Proposals No. 25 give effect to the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on bags and sacks of man-made fibre. Tariff quotas will apply to bags and sacks of man-made fibre, other than wool packs. A penalty rate of duty of 18c each will apply to imports in excess of quota, unless they are to be used to contain exports from Australia. A comprehensive summary of the changes and the duty rates is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following information for answer to the right honourable member's question: 
(1)$73,000. 
) The advertising provided for is associated with recruitment and changes in departmental procedures. 

1974-75-$59,326 
1973-74- $31,188 
1972-73-$26,987 
1971-72- $20,628 
1970-71-$34,845. 
I thank the honourable member for the question because it involves a matter of considerable concern to many Australians. The Barton case, of course, highlights not only the difficulties with extradition law but also the sorry state of corporate law generally in Australia. I have in mind matters relating to the proposed corporations and securities Bill, the corporate affairs bureaus as they exist in the various States and matters of that sort. It is true in regard to extradition law that Australia still depends in large measure on old treaties, and a consequential element of uncertainty comes into the situation. For some time the Government has been embarked upon an ambitious program of negotiating and upgrading the extradition law. Through the Department of Foreign Affairs and my own Department work is in hand on these matters. 
So far as the particular court case is concerned, although it is early days yet it is my understanding, as I indicated to the House yesterday, that an appeal will be lodged and our lawyers in Paraguay, who are versed in Paraguayan law, not Australian law, are optimistic about our chances. I would like to make a final point before I sit down. When one thinks of the Barton situation and other situations that were in the news even this morning- Queensland Mines Ltd, Nabarlek, Patrick Partners and matters of that sort, all at different levels- we can only say how lamentable is the Australian legal situation, fragmented as it is through the various States, each section unable to take care of the situations that can develop at any time and how much we badly need corporations and securities legislation of a kind that we introduced into this Parliament as long as 7 months ago. 
One could go on and say that the Rae Committee in the Senate sat for 4 years exposing mischief and abuse of this sort. My predecessor introduced the Bill into the Senate, I think in December of last year. That Bill went through this House, I think in February, or perhaps ea'rly March, of this year. It is now bogged down in the Senate on the motion of the Opposition parties in the Senate. It does no credit to this Parliament. It certainly does no credit to the Liberal Party and the National Country Party which must be seen to be opposing reform measures of this sort. It is only when we get reform measures of this sort that abuses of the sort which the honourable member has in mind will become a less frequent feature of the Australian scene. 
I have seen the report referred to by the honourable gentleman. Indeed, I referred to it in answering an earlier question. The report is almost a notorious fact in Australian public life these days because it has been the subject of so much comment. I think I heard  Senator Rae  on the radio program  A.M.  this morning describing the situation revealed in the report, the conflict of interests, the insider trading, the reckless representations made and the opportunity for and abuse of privilege. These have become well known to all honourable members as a feature of that industry to the detriment of many Australians. The report also set out that not only were people being unjustly enriched by abusing their privilege and their position but they were doing so at the expense of ordinary Australian investors who were being defrauded and taken down. I remember the report saying- I am sure  Senator Rae  said it- that the adverse effects on the capital market of Australia were something that should not be overlooked. 
It has been said over and over again that Australia needs a single, all-embracing corporations and securities law. One asks: How often are we to hear that said? It is as easy to transfer capital in Australia today as it is to make a telephone call. It can go from Sydney to Perth on the making of a telephone call. Yet the States persist in their 6 separate puny attempts to regulate these abuses. I have no doubt at all that in their own minds they concede the futility of the effort. Yet they oppose this Parliament, this Government putting the situation right or moving in the direction of putting it right. 
As I said in answer to the earlier question, we introduced into this Parliament the Corporations and Securities Bill in, I think, February or March. It had previously been introduced into the Senate in December of last year. We are now in August of 1975. It went through this House after a full debate. The Opposition did not move a single amendment to the Bill when it was here because it had not really thought out its position. Yet the Bill had been the subject of close, detailed, prolonged public discussion and consultations with the various professional associations throughout Australia. Representations were received. I have certainly made it clear that we are not dogmatic on it as. a piece of legislation. We are flexible. We want there to be a law. We have certainly said that we are prepared to consider any reasonable amendment put forward to the Bill. But in the Senate predictably the Opposition-the Liberal and National Country Party people who insist upon preserving the present inadequate system- insisted upon referring the legislation to a Standing Committee, despite the opposition of the Government. The Bill is with the Standing Committee now. It has to be said that, as I understand it, the Standing Committee has barely begun to consider the task and is already asking for an extension of time. If amendments are to be moved they can be moved and the Government will consider them. But this situation does this Parliament little credit. It does great discredit to the Liberal and National Country Party people for their continued obstinate opposition to measures of . reform of this sort because all it means is that cases like Patrick Partners, Queensland Mines Ltd and the Bartons will be a continual affliction on Australian corporate life for years to come. 
in reply- I should like briefly to reply to the remarks that have been made. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  was good enough to indicate, first, the support of the Opposition for the Government's proposal and, second, to go on and say that certain regulations made under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act would probably- as a consequence of this measure becoming law- have to be amended. I am happy to tell the honourable gentleman that I understand it is the intention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  to make such amendments, which will give further effect to methods of dealing with the social mischief which he described so eloquently in his second reading speech. I should also like briefly to say in reply to the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  that we try to be courteous but we also try to be helpful. I have written to  Senator Greenwood  on the subject setting out the general circumstances of the necessity to amend the regulation. 
It has been sent to him and it should have reached him. It may not have been passed on to the honourable member for Bennelong but it has been sent. Those are the prime reasons for the introduction of this Bill. It is introduced in the context that the present law on the subject is all State law. It is in different forms. It is somewhat old fashioned and out of date in many ways. This Bill is considered by the Government to be a general improvement on the situation that exists at the moment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee 

The Bill. 
Proposed new clause 4. 
-I am familiar with the report and the section of the Act referred to by the honourable gentleman. It is true that there were some 3 occasions when I exercised the powers in section 90 of the Act in the way he described. It was deemed proper at the time, given the circumstances, to exercise the discretion given to the Attorney-General in that way. The course of making an announcement at the time can be taken in different ways. If the Parliament is sitting the announcement can be made to the Parliament. I see that the honourable gentleman shakes his head and indicates that it should not be announced in that way. On some occasions the action has been accompanied by a statement. I think it proper that it should be. It has always been accompanied by discussions with the relevant parties. 
-Some effects of the dismantling of Australian Legal Aid offices operating around Australia would become immediately clear and disastrously harmful to a lot of people. For example, in the time since the offices began operating- there are now some 30 offices operating around Australia- over 130 000 inquiries have been processed and dealt with. At the moment the offices are handling about 10 000 inquiries a month. Those figures are increasing. That is just a small aspect of the overall problem. The honourable member directs my attention to the effect of the dismantling of the offices on family law matters and on the Family Law Act. In the Family Law Act, which has not yet been proclaimed, there is specific recognition of the Australian Legal Aid Office as the agency for dispensing legal aid in Australia. I have taken out some figures showing the operations of the Office and I seek leave to incorporate them in Hansard. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
17 June 1974, 18 July 1974, 12 September 1974. 
Officers and employees located in branches in Adelaide, Brisbane and Hobart. 
143. 
To ensure that officers and employees are aware of emergency procedures and to enable persons with special emergency appointments to have practical training in their duties. 
Yes. 
RED Scheme (Question No.  1980) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) I refer the honourable member to the 'Report of the Working Party on Territorial Criminal Law' which I tabled in Parliament on 5 June 1975 and to the statement I then made. Copies of both documents have been supplied to all members. 
I assume that the reference is to the Draft Criminal Code for the Australian Territories completed by the Law Council of Australia in 1969. The two drafts differ fundamentally in approach, concepts and detail. The differences are too substantial to be enumerated here. 
No. 
This has been done and I have asked for comments on the draft to be submitted to me as soon as possible. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the Excise Tariff 1921-1974 in accordance with Excise Tariff Proposals No. 1 (1975) introduced into the Parliament on 19 August last. The changes, which operate from 8 o'clock in the evening on Tuesday 19 August 1975, give effect to the Government's Budget measures within the excise field. Increased duties are imposed on beer, potable spirits and manufactured tobacco products and new duties of excise imposed on stabilized crude petroleum oil, liquid petroleum obtained from naturally occurring petroleum gas and liquified petroleum gas obtained from unstabilized crude petroleum oil or from naturally occurring petroleum gas. A summary of the changes is being circulated. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill enacts the export duties imposed on coal exported from Australia. The new duties are in accordance with Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Proposals 1975 which I tabled on 19 August last. The rate of duty imposed on high quality coking coal is $6 per tonne, while coal other than high quality coking coal will bear a duty of $2 per tonne. The duties, which operate from 8 o'clock in the evening on 19 August 1975, give effect to the Government's Budget measures in relation to coal exported from Australia. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend provisions of the Customs Act 1901-1975 in relation to the duties imposed on coal exported from Australia. Section 114 of the Customs Act is being amended to require an exporter of coal to furnish information prior to exportation to establish the duty status of the coal to be exported in order that adequate arrangements can be made for the protection of the revenue. The amendment to section 133 of the Customs Act makes provision to permit an exporter of coal to make application to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of decisions made by a collector concerning the classification of coal. 
The provisions of section 152 enable alterations to be made to agreements for the sale or delivery of goods duty paid if any alteration takes place in the duty collected affecting those goods before they are exported. Honourable members will recall that in his Budget speech the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  indicated that the Government did not wish the export duty to be passed on to overseas buyers who have recently agreed to pay higher prices. The amendment to section 152 contained in this Bill withdraws the provision for increasing contract prices to take account of the new duty. The amendments will operate from 8 o'clock in the evening on 19 August 1975. 1 commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3), This information is not available. There is no legislation of the Australian Parliament or of any State that requires the registration of all collections of information that might be subsumed under the term 'data bank'. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to House of Representatives Question No. 1134. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) From the time when the Bankruptcy Act came into operation in 1968 specific proposals for its amendment were raised and considered. Late m 1973 it was decided to undertake the comprehensive review referred to in my answer to question number 2237 (vide Hansard 27 May 1975, page 2892). As indicated in my previous answer the purpose of the review has been to identify the deficiencies in the Act and the amendments necessary to remedy them. In the course of the review my Department has consulted with Registrars and Official Receivers and sought their views as to any difficulties which they were experiencing in the administration of the Act. Proposals to overcome deficiencies in the Act have been formulated and are being further considered. I am hopeful that the review, will be completed soon and that it will then be possible to introduce an amending Bill. The honourable member may rest assured that this matter will be proceeded with as expeditiously as possible. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I propose to refer to the Law Reform Commission the matter of a uniform law of defamation as soon as the Commission is in a position to undertake this reference. 
The meeting of the Standing Committee in July 1975 agreed that it was not necessary to proceed with a joint study to co-ordinate the work of all law reform bodies in Australia. The Australian Law Reform Commission has agreed to assume responsibility for the compilation and distribution of an official list of information about activities of law reform agencies as from 1 January 1976. 
The Legislative Drafting Institute Act 1974 was proclaimed to commence on 9 December 1974. It establishes an Institute for the purposes of conducting courses in legislative drafting and undertaking research into methods and techniques of that work. The first training course conducted by the Institute commenced in Canberra on 2 June 1 975 and will conclude about 1 5 December 1 975. 
The examination of uniform recording of criminal statistics in Australia was referred to the Australian Institute of Criminology. A conference on the matter was held in Canberra on 10-13 June 1975 and the Institute is continuing consultations on the matter with the various Police Forces in Australia. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 26 (  1  975). 
The Customs TariffProposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. The Proposals formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by Gazette notice during the last recess. These changes arise from the Government 's decisions on recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on: 
Fabricated Asbestos, etc; and 
Mattresses, Quilts, Eiderdowns and Cushions. 
Also included in the Proposals is a change modifying the tariff quota arrangements applying to youths' and boys' knitted suits. This change is in accordance with the intention of the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation in its report on Apparel Section 2. A comprehensive summary setting out the changes and the duty rates is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Eric  Robinson) adjourned. 
I would not have risen to speak at this stage but my good friend the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  who just sat down talked about the Australia Police and it seemed an appropriate time to reply not only to his remarks on that subject and also briefly on the pornography matter that he mentioned but also, before they depart too much from our memories, to the remarks of the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  who launched a very vitriolic personal attack upon my predecessor, and by association on me, although I think most of it was directed against my predecessor. 
I shall deal briefly with what my good friend said about the Australia Police. I am not the responsible Minister in that area now, as he knows, although it was my pleasure, my good fortune, to take the first steps that led to the creation of the Australia Police on I think- I call on my memory- 27 March of this year. I remind the honourable member that the Australia Police is an amalgamation of the Northern Territory Police Force, the Commonwealth Police Force, the Australian Capital Territory Police Force and certain officers in the old Department of Customs and Excise who did police work, particularly work associated with narcotics. I remind the honourable member- I do not detect any appearance of dissent in the expression on his face- that there were a lot of deficiencies in the fragmentation of the old system. The Government embarked upon the program of rationalising this system and bringing into being a single force that would combine the advantages of career opportunities for individual officers, mobility on request but not by compulsion for individual officers, all the advantages of upgrading status and the provision of a police college that could not be given with the old fragmented system. The advantages were enormous. 
My good friend was kind enough to pay tribute to  Mr Carmody,  who was the permanent head of the old Department of Customs and Excise and now of the Department of Police and Customs, for his efforts generally. The honourable member will recall that  Mr Carmody  visited many parts of the world with systems comparable to our own. He went to the United Kingdom, to parts of western Europe, to the United States of America and to Canada. He came back and he prepared what is now known as the Carmody report which has been presented to this Parliament. He came down strongly in favour of a modification of the Canadian system. Canada has a federal system, not the same as ours- different in some ways, similar in others. He was impressed with that particular model based upon the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, not because they ride horses but because of the particular structure and the elan that they have managed to take to themselves combining efficiency, law enforcement, apprehension of offenders and also, of great importance to the Government, the protection of civil liberties. The Government in large measure, but not in complete measure, adopted the main thrust of his report. There were departures from it but the main thrust of it was adopted. I assure the honourable member that the Bill is at an advanced stage. I hope that it will be presented to the Parliament in the near future. I had discussions about it with the Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh)  as recently as this afternoon. With all the advantages that come from that restructuring, one looks for the disadvantages. One has to recognise that the average citizen is a little apprehensive of a policeman. 
I am glad to see that the honourable member for Bennelong has returned to the chamber because I want to say something about his speech. 
If one takes three or four small police forces and makes them into a bigger police force it is understandable that many citizens will be a little concerned about their dealings with the police. I understand that fully. Most of my public life before I became a politician was involved in the civil liberties movement, and that in turn involved policemen and their relations with citizens. When I became Attorney-General I saw the great opportunity to build into this new structure some safeguards for the citizen in his or her relationships with the police. Such safeguards do not exist today in any Australian police force whether it be the police force of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Northern Territory, the Australian Capital Territory, Tasmania or Western Australia. The honourable member will remember that the first reference to the Australian Law Reform Commission, which is presided over by  Mr Justice  Kirby, was the need to protect civil liberties. I do not know whether he has had the opportunity to see the first Kirby report on the subject of complaints against the police where a citizen wants to have justifiable and effective complaints against the police properly aired. The report has been tabled here for some time. I hope that the honourable member has had the opportunity to read it. It is one of the most enlightened, progressive documents that has ever been prepared and presented to the Australian public in Australia 's history. 
Two or three weeks ago I was in Geneva at the United Nations Convention on Crime Prevention and the Treatment of Offenders. The report was widely read there and was commended by everyone who had the opportunity to read it. We took 50 copies of it with us. I hope that in the near future the Bill will be ready, incorporating the recommendations of the Kirby report. There is another aspect of it which deals with powers of arrest, powers of bail, police interrogation, which is another aspect dear to my heart as AttorneyGeneral and for which in the past the law has not been adequate. I hope that it will be substantially improved in the second report of the Law Reform Commission of Australia which we expect to have in two or three weeks time. It may be going to the printer now, or it is rapidly reaching that stage. 
The honourable member mentioned the subject of pornography. I will not reply to him in detail at this stage but I will raise the matter later. It is not that I think the subject unimportant but that I prefer to come back to it. I now turn to the remarks of the honourable member for Bennelong who launched a vitriolic and unfair personal attack on my predecessor and on me as well. Honourable members opposite may laugh, but when one lawyer rises in this place and says that because you are in court you are not protecting the interests of your client- he was referring particularly to my predecessor who is now a High Court judge- it is an unfair below the belt attack. Let us reflect on the nature of politics. The honourable member comes to this place as a young solicitor from the western suburbs of Sydney. Let me not go down to the level to which he descended but let me tell him something about politics. The honourable member criticised my predecessor for getting his clients to court. May I remind him that my predecessor was probably the greatest law reformer that Australia has ever had. Let me remind honourable members opposite of the Trade Practices Act. How long did they flounder trying to prepare a Trade Practices Act? Was it 15 years or 20 years? Let me remind them of the Family Court of Australia and the Family Law Bill. How long did they leave that state of the law untouched? May I remind them of the Human Rights Bill by which my predecessor valiantly tried to upgrade human rights in Australia, only to have the Bill defeated by the Opposition and ultimately killed by the prorogation. Let me remind honourable members opposite of the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill which is the most progressive, adventuresome and desirable social reform in that area of the law that this Parliament has ever attempted to bring about. All these initiatives of my predecessor were opposed vigorously, they are still opposed by the Opposition and they are bogged down in the Senate because the Opposition parties have a majority in the Senate. One could go on. 
Who introduced the Ombudsman Bill into this Parliament? It was my predecessor. Who introduced the Administrative Appeals Tribunal legislation which has gone through? It was my predecessor. And the honourable member has the gall to launch a personal attack upon him. 
Honourable members opposite were in office for 23 years and they did not put through 0.00001 per cent of what he put through in the  Vi  years that he occupied this office. Yet they come in here and launch an attack of that sort. Let me say this also,  Mr Chairman  - 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
$363,900. 
and (3) The categories of advertising and expenditure for 1975-76 and the preceding five years are set out in the following schedule. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the information of honourable members I present a review of Australian Customs activities for 1974-75. 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
The matter was withdrawn to permit consideration of the overall desirability of a permanent police presence at Parliament House. The need for guard boxes necessarily hinged on the consideration of this question of principle. 
Four. 
The police involved are supplied with the normal issue of protective clothing and are relieved at regular intervals. 
I am unable to indicate if and when the guard boxes will be erected; the proposal is to be considered in light of point (1) and my Department is investigating alternate methods of police providing security at Parliament House. 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
(D- 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. The Minister for Northern Austalia has authorized the Minister for Police and Customs to act on his behalf in respect of police matters in the Northern Territory. In addition the Minister for Northern Australia has instructed the Administrator, pursuant to the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910-1974, to act in accordance with the advice of the Minister for Police and Customs in relation to police matters in the Territory. 
I move: 
That the requested amendments be made. 
Honourable members will recall that the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  recently announced that in the light of representations from coal producers on the effects of the newly established coal export duty the Government had decided that certain steaming coal should be exempted from the duty. Prices for this coal have not risen in line with the general recent price increases in the industry. For this reason the effect of the duty on this coal could have priced it out of its markets in Britain and in Europe and led to termination of contracts. Exemption from the duty would avoid this result and would open the way for further contracts which would lead to increased production and employment in the Western Districts coal fields around Lithgow in New South Wales. 
The particular type of coal to be exempted is steaming coal having both an ash content of more than 14 per cent on an air-dried basis and a crucible swelling number of not more than three. This type of coal is produced both in some Western Districts coalfields and in some coalfields in the Newcastle region. The amendments requested are to give effect to this decision. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The amendment is complementary to the amendment to the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Bill which has just been considered. It provides for the right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for a review of decisions of a Collector concerning the classification of coal which will be exempt from duty. 
I thank the honourable member for the question. The number of bankruptcies during 1974-75 was 2052 and that can be taken from the Second Schedule of the Attorney-General's annual report to Parliament on the operation of the Bankruptcy Act 1974-75. This is a low figure and is in keeping with the record of this Government. The lowest figure recorded over the past 7 years was 1619 for last year, 1973-74, and that figure comes from the Attorney-General's annual report for 1973-74, again the Second Schedule. These figures should be compared with the 2657 bankruptcies for the last full year of office of the Liberal-Country Party Government. That figure comes from the Attorney-General's annual report of 1971-72, again the Second Schedule. This figure is over 600 more than that reported for the 1974-75 financial year. The lower level of bankruptcies under the Labor Government is well exemplified by the fact that the number of cases for June 1975-182-and July 1975-169-was lower than the average monthly figure over the past 7 years which was 1 84. The main causes given and assessed of bankruptcy were, and they remain- in a descending order- lack of business ability, lack of working capital and general economic conditions. I emphasise that they were in the order that I have given. 
The following information is supplementary to that contained in my answer on 19 August 1975  (Hansard  page 229) to  Mr Hodges  and follows the granting of Royal Assent to the Grants Commission Act 1975 on 19 June 1975: 
Pursuant to section 6A of the Grants Commission Act 1973-1975 the  Chairman  of the Australian Grants Commission,  Mr Justice  R. Else-Mitchell has the rank and status of a Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. Prior to his appointment,  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell was a Judge of the New South Wales Supreme Court. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The use of Kwikasair Pty Ltd as the delivery medium for the  Women's Weekly  lift-out 'Legal Aid' booklets about the Australian Legal Aid Office was determined by the contractor, Conpress Pty Ltd, with whom a contract for production and distribution of the booklets was arranged. The fee paid to Kwikasair Pty Ltd is a matter between the major contractor, Conpress Pty Ltd, and its subcontractor. The amount involved is not known to my Department. 
Parcels were dispatched to all other Members in the same manner. 
The honourable member is referred to my answer to question No. 2696. 
Public Service: Growth in employment and cost of accommodation and furniture (Question No. 2822) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Non-repayable grants have been made available through the Attorney-General's Department as follows: (a) Legal Aid- 
These legal aid schemes and the State Governments have been made aware of the availability of the funds by letters from the Attorney-General of the time. 
Marriage Guidance- 
I understand the honourable member's concern. I hope the Bill will be again brought before the House in the very near future but one has to take account of what I understand was a Press statement put out yesterday from the Opposition parties to the effect that they were going to move to defer consideration of the Bill when it does reappear in the House and in the Senate. One can only deplore such a decision. Debate on the Bill was commenced here about 2 months ago. 
I am corrected; it was 4 months ago. Surely that is much more time than is normally required for adequate consideration of a Bill. The fact is that the Opposition parties do not believe in legal aid. There is plenty of record and plenty of evidence of that fact. The Opposition spokesman on matters affecting the Department of the Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  is on record as having said that he opposes in principle the Australian Legal Aid Office. That means he opposes legal aid. The Victorian Attorney-General, a prominent member of the Liberal Party, also is on record as having said that he opposes in principle the Australian Legal Aid Office. Wherever one looks one sees confirmation of that same fact. The Opposition parties do not want legal aid facilities extended to people in need. Further confirmation, if it were necessary, can be obtained from other facts. 
If one looks back to the last year of the Liberal-Country Party Government, 1972, one finds that not only was there no such thing, no such concept, no such idea as an Australian Legal Aid Office- there certainly were not 30 offices such as now operate around the countrybut the sum total of its expenditure on the subject of legal aid to the Australian States was in the neighbourhood, from memory, of only $300,000- a token sum. It is laughable when one thinks of the nature of the problem- of the extent of the need. This Government allocated in the recent Budget in excess of $ 16m to meet the need that the Opposition parties assess at something like $300,000. 1 put to the House that that is the best evidence of the priority, the low priority, the absence of priority that the Opposition parties give to legal aid. The best evidence of this lack of priority falls from the lips of the Leader of the Opposition himself who said a little while ago in one of his early contributions, if one can call it that, to the Budget debate that a LiberalNational Country Party Government in future would dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Office. The public should be left in no sense of uncertainty about the intentions of the Opposition parties in regard to legal aid in Australia. There is certainty and it is that they do not believe in it. 
I can simply answer the question this way: The report is still under consideration. 
-The simple answer to the honourable gentleman's question is that the vast majority of people who resort to the Australian Legal Aid offices now established and operating around Australia would be denied the services now available to them. It has been established beyond all doubt that the vast majority of people going into the Australian Legal Aid offices are not the sort of people who go to ordinary solicitors seeking legal advice. They are the poor, they are the migrant groups and they are the people who, for one socially conditioned reason or another, do not want to go into a solicitor's office because of the aura which surrounds so many solicitors' offices. That has been established by so many independent surveys that it reflects badly on the Opposition if it is not aware of it. Some 10 000 people a month are going to Australian Legal Aid offices. It is equally clear that the shadow Attorney-General in the Senate, among other Opposition spokesmen, has indicated that he sees no reason at all for the Australian Legal Aid office. He wants to dissmantle it. It is equally clear that the Leader of the Opposition has said that he would dismantle it. 
It is equally clear that the indications coming from the Opposition are that it does not want to let the public know that it would dismantle the Australian Legal Aid office. It has to find a way around the situation. This is where the credibility of the Opposition comes really into the limelight, because its credibility is really at issue on this point. The Opposition seeks to resort to the ruse, the device, of saying: 'When the Bill gets to the Senate we will send it to a committee. We will bury it and we will not be seen there to be burying and destroying such a valuable, popular and socially desirable initiative '. 
I certainly do not intend to do that. I put as part of the answer to the question that one hopes that the Opposition is not going to go down the same road that it went down on Medibank when it allowed itself to be a stooge for the Australian Medical Association. We know that some law institutes and some Bar associations oppose the ALAO and would want to have legal aid in their own hands. The real basis of the honourable member's question is that this Government intends legal aid to benefit people and not to be a subsidy for the legal profession. 
It has been indeed pleasing to listen to the various contributions that have been made to this debate. I appreciate the great degree of unanimity that exists on this subject. It is all too rare in this House to find honourable members expressing such agreement on a subject. It is a pity that there was not the same degree of unanimity when the Government introduced this measure in March 1974. The House divided most vigorously on the issue when it was presented at that time. 
I do not wish to take up too much of the time of the House as the proposal is really a quite simple one and it has been dealt with by many of the speakers. The honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who has just resumed his seat in a wide ranging speech went beyond the bare bones of the proposal which is, as we all now know, to permit the exchange of powers from the Australian Parliament to the State parliaments and the return of powers on other matters from the State parliaments to the Australian Parliament, consequential on agreement. That is the basic of the Bill. The honourable member talked about philosophical matters. I will indulge myself, if I may, to answer him briefly. 
The honourable member directed some remarks to Government thinking or what he called Labor thinking on the subject of greater control in the central Government. If those are not the words the honourable member used, they are the words that I wrote down. Without conceding that that is a correct way of putting the proposition, I say that the honourable member should appreciate that the Government tries to face up to this problem of power just as indeed the honourable member for Lyne tries to face up to that problem. This is a concept which is often avoided in Australian politics, and we run away from it. The position of the Government is different from that of the honourable member for Lyne and the Opposition Parties in the sense that the Government recognises that power exists in the community. If political power is fragmented and weakened, far from achieving the results that those on the Opposition side want to achieve, when the excesses of power are avoided, we believe that in turn excesses of power are created which are not accountable to anyone. 
As the honourable member for Lyne put it, the Prime Minister and Ministers of the Government are accountable to the people. They are accountable to the Parliament. They must stand up here at question time and answer questions. Insofar as there is any power associated with them, it is responsible power for which they are accountable in a democratic way. But if a political power is fragmented in some form or another, in some constitutional or federal system, a confederate system or in some other system, so that political power is watered down to such an extent that we will find a concentration of that power of a different kind in a different area- say, the private sector- we will get for example enormous economic power, corporate power, which is not accountable to anyone. That basically presents a different ideological or philosophical point of view that members of the Liberal and National Country Parties would take from that adopted by members of the Labor Party. We believe that that type of power does not serve the interests of anyone. We believe in a democratic accountability of power. That is what often divides us. I do not want to take any more time on that subject. I see the honourable gentleman recognising that we have differences. 
May I return to the Bill? It is, as the House knows, a Bill which proposes that a referendum be held to alter the Constitution with respect to the interchanging of powers between the Commonwealth Parliament and the State parliaments. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr 
Jacobi) in a speech that was equally as wide ranging as that of the honourable member for Lyne drew attention to the remarks attributed to Professor Sawer of the Australian National University in which he described the Australian Constitution as perhaps a frozen Constitution. With respect to its Constitution, Australia is a frozen continent. That is the way that Professor Sawer has put it. It was the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  who said that our Constitution is not only 75 years old but really finds its roots or its basis in an earlier period. It goes back some 90 years. 
We know that attempts to change our Constitution have failed lamentably. There are really only 3 instruments of change provided for or built into the Constitution. One is the system of referenda referred to in section 128 of the Constitution. That is the section which provides the system whereby subject to laws of this sort being passed by the Parliament or in the event of those laws in some circumstances not even being passed by the Senate a proposal can be put to the people by way of referendum and that is therefore democratic action. The difficulty with this system in practice has been that our founding fathers saw fit, because they represented State colonies at the time- in many ways still colonies of the imperial crown- to build in what they thought were safeguards to make change not easy. 
I would say very bad. In any event, section 128 provides that there must be not only a majority of Australians vote for a proposal- I would have thought that that was enough; perhaps one could want a majority in each State or something of that sort- but that there must be a majority in a majority of the States in support of a proposal. Australia has 6 States. A majority of six is four. The system does not turn out to be exactly what it appears to be on paper. For a referendum proposal to be carried a majority not only of all Australians throughout the continent but also a majority of two-thirds of the States is required. 
We know that in practice it has proved almost impossible to obtain those majorities on quite a number of occasions. This Government would dearly like be able to relax that rule. But it knows that it would run headlong into the opposition of the Opposition parties. Then we would be driven back again to what the honourable member for Lyne, who is not a member of my Party, referred to when he talked about fear because campaigners in referenda, people who oppose proposed changes, certainly rely on fear. Section 128 has largely failed. It is a notorious factperhaps 'notorious' is the wrong word, but it is certainly a fact- that Labor Party governments want to change the Constitution by referenda. Liberal-National Country Party coalition governments rarely do as they are more prepared to accept the status quo. This is again a philosophical and a fundamental difference, between us. 
-Yes. The only one you got through was one which said that Aborigines should be regarded as people. There are fundamental differences between us on these points. 
The second method of change which the Constitution provides is to be found in section 51 placitum (xxxvii) which enables referrals of power by the States. That is the one to which we are trying to begin to attend in this legislation today. We know that the Founding Fathers thought that it might be appropriate for the States to give one of the powers that they have to the Australian Government. We know that the States have hardly ever done that because nobody likes to give up power. I suppose it is part of human nature. Also I think they have argued on the other hand that they might not be able to get back the referred power, as the language is unclear, and they might want to attach conditions to the exercise of power by the Australian Parliament. It is not clear whether conditions can be attached. So, that referral of power has hardly ever been done. 
This measure seeks to overcome that situation by changing the Constitution to permit the States to have returned the power that they have referred if they want it back and to attach conditions if they wish to do so. In turn it Will allow us to give to the States some powers that it might be more proper that they should have than we should have here in the Australian Parliament. 
The final instrument of change is the High Court itself. It is a lamentable fact or a pity that it has turned out to be the greatest instrument of change. There is no measure of criticism of the High Court in that comment. I refer to the fact that the other systems of change have so dismally failed that the High Court which interprets the Constitution and which I heard the Chief Justice say the other day was actually an arm of government that is something with which I might not necessarily agree- has turned out to be the instrument of change. It is the only instrument of change with respect to interpretation. More change, for example, came from the decision of the High Court in the concrete pipes case in terms of a transference of power from the States to the Australian Parliament than has ever come from any reference of power or referendum which has been put forward- certainly if not now then in the future. It is to overcome the rigidity or inflexibility which is such a feature of our Constitution and which results in our country being described by prominent academics as the frozen land that this change is put forward on this occasion. 
It seems that the Bill receives support from the Opposition parties. We are very pleased about that. If the relationship between the States and the Australian Parliament is ever to change it is surely a matter for the States to decide whether it should change and the way in which it should change. I know of no way in which the States will suddenly disappear overnight, be swallowed up, evaporate or something of that sort, and I have no doubt that they will continue into the foreseeable future. This being so, then surely if the relationship between the States and the Australian Parliament is to change we must allow the States to change that relationship with us. This is not necessarily called striking a bargain- although there is nothing wrong with that expression- or horse dealing or anything of that sort. One certainly assumes that if this change ever becomes part of the law of the land, the Governments of the States and the Australian Government will at some stage in the future be able to sit down as rational men notwithstanding the difficulties which the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  described. I think he understated the position. One hopes that notwithstanding those political difficulties the States will be able to say: 'We do not really want this power of defamation' to take an example in the case of the States- 'and you perhaps do not really want that exclusive power over Commonwealth places'. Other examples could be given. 
In those circumstances why can we not just put the matter right as sensible men should do? We would get an instrument of change. I agree with one of the earlier speakers who said that if this can be brought about it will be one of the most momentous changes for good in the future- I am not talking about next week or in 6 months time, I am talking of 10 years, 20 years, 50 years or 100 years- that will have been brought about in the Australian Constitution, because it will introduce an element of flexibility which, at the moment, is completely lacking. The relationship between the States and the Australian Parliament at the moment is not what they want it to be at all. It is what people back in 1 870, who are long dead, said it should be. I cannot think of any State government which would say: 'The relationship is ideal; let it continue.' I cannot think of any Australian government, whether it be of an Australian Labor Party or of a Liberal-Country Party coalition persuasion which would say: 'The relationship is ideal; let it continue.' Yet there it is, written in black and white, almost unalterable except by the interpretation of the High Court which from time to time is able to give new meaning to old words. If this Bill becomes law the relationship will be what the parties want it to be. Surely that is civilised; that is progress. We regard ordinary, natural persons as being entitled to determine their own relationships when they want to. Surely the States and the Australian Parliament should be able to do the same thing. 
Some questions were directed to me, I think by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  about sub-section (2) of proposed new section 108a. I put the situation to him this way: If he compares the present Bill with the earlier Bill which was dealt with last time he will find some differences. My recollection of the Bill which was before the Parliament in 1974 is that the exchange could be done on a State for State basis. In other words, State A could transfer a power on subject X to the Australian Parliament in return for some power. It could be done on that basis. Now, of course, the honourable member will note, if he reads sub-section (1) of proposed new section 108a that the power relates to all States. The States do not have to exercise the power but they do have that requirement. When one looks at sub-section (2) of proposed new section 108a I suppose the principal point I can put to him is, as he appreciates, that it provides that the power of the Australian Parliament to designate a matter is not limited by the general provisions of the Constitution. This will make it clear, for example, that the Australian Parliament could designate the matter of a State tax even though its own power with respect to taxation relates to Commonwealth taxation only. The Bill should also make it clear that the power to designate matters is not restricted by the requirement, for example, that Commonwealth laws with respect to taxation and bounties must not discriminate between States but must be uniform throughout the Commonwealth. I suppose one could argue that subsection (2) of proposed new section 108a need not be there. 
It could be argued. On the other hand, we would argue that it should be there for valid reasons. I put the view which I hold to honourable members listening opposite -I do not know whether they hold this view; they may- that the question of intra-State shipping is a problem which the States, or someone in Australia, might want to put right. They might want to make a better law. As I said a little while ago, at the moment the States are still, in many ways, colonies of the British Crown. The law on this subject is to be found largely in the Imperial Merchant Shipping Act of 1 894. 
-My friend the honourable member for Hawker who interjects from behind says that it is a very modern Act. I do not think anyone would argue that it is the latest word on the subject. The States are still bound by the Colonial Laws Validity Act because the Statute of Westminster did not pick them up. The Imperial Merchant Shipping Act cannot be repealed by the States. On the other hand, we of the Australian Parliament have no constitutional power to make a law on the subject. 
-My friend the honourable member for Wentworth warns me not to make too many admissions. The fact remains that one searches section 51 and looks in vain for a reference to shipping of that sort. One might find support for the proposition from some other part of the Constitution but that might be a matter where a reference of power might help overcome the problem in the way in which sub-section (2) of proposed new section 108a contemplates. That is just one example. The future may well produce other examples. The situation we come back to is that sub-section (3) of proposed new section 108a makes it clear that provisions like section 92 of the Constitution -are applicable to State laws made under a designation. Subsection (2) is concerned principally with the designation by the Australian Parliament and not with exercises of power under the designation. Of course section 99 would have no application to a State law made under a designation. A designation must be made to all States by reason of the terms of sub-section ( 1 ) of proposed new section 108a. That is the matter I was putting a few moments ago. States could not be made subject to section 99 which is concerned with the Aus.tralian Parliament giving preferences between States. They would be free to legislate as they wished, subject to any conditions, etc., which might be found in the designation. I hope that my view on the subject in response to the request put to me by the honourable gentleman may be of some assistance. 
I do not think there is anything further I want to say on the matter. It is my understanding that discussions have taken place between the Prime Minister and, I think, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the subject. I hope that we will pass the second reading of the Bill when it is put to a vote, that we will go into Committee and then, perhaps, move that progress be reported. I conclude with these final words: I am not sure whether the germ of this idea of a mutual exchange of powers can be traced back to the 1957 Joint Committee on Constitutional Review of this Parliament. I have a recollection that it can, although I have not had the opportunity to check it recently. I know that the Prime Minister has been very much attached to the idea of constitutional change for a great period of time. He was active on that Committee as long ago as 1957. Certainly this Government, his Government, has tried very hard to upgrade and to modernise the Constitution. To date, we have had success which is not yet fully appreciated. When the High Court hands down its decisions we will know whether the success is greater or less than it has been to date. We all await those decisions with great interest. The initiative in bringing this measure forward is largely a tribute to the Prime Minister's persistent interest in constitutional reform and constitutional change and a recognition that this frozen, rigid Constitution of ours must somehow in 1975, and in 1985 and in 1995, be made capable of adapting itself to the changing world that it is intended to serve. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and committed pro forma; progress reported. 
-The honourable gentleman's interest in legal aid and environmental matters is well known and appreciated. The Australian Legal Aid Office has been very helpful in this regard. I can inform the House that to date some 20 cases have been the subject of legal aid applications. Without going into too much detail I shall mention some of them. There was the Black Mountain tower case in the Australian Capital Territory. In Queensland there was the Rochedale Citizens Committee case which was an appeal to the Local Government Court against approval given to PGH Industries Limited by the Brisbane City Council to permit clay mining. There was the well-known case of Fraser Island. The Queensland Conservation Council was given legal aid in regard to the Meeandah matter. There was also the application concerning Mount Etna caves in Queensland. There was the case of Round Hill Head in Queensland, Quinkan Caves in Queensland, Mt Elliott in Queensland and Baysfield in Queensland. In New South Wales there was Cooks River Valley where legal aid was approved to obtain counsel's opinion on the validity of certain proposals to site oil pipelines through recreation areas from Botany Bay to Rosehill. In Victoria legal aid was granted in respect of the Newport power station matter. In that case legal aid was granted to the Williamstown Conservation and Planning Society and the Port Phillip Conservation Council in their appeals to the Environment Protection Appeal Board. There was also the matter of Lanark Terrace in Victoria where legal aid paid half the costs incurred by the Emerald Hill Association in lodging a certain appeal in the Supreme Court. In the Dandenong Ranges legal aid matters were instrumental in achieving significant results. Westernport and Ballarat in Victoria also were the subject of legal aid in environmental matters. In Tasmania there was the Precipitous Bluff case and Mt Nelson which benefited in this way. In Western Australia the Kwinana freeway extensions were also the subject of a legal aid application. 
It is true, as the honourable member said, that the state of the insurance law is unsatisfactory. It is true that the  Modern Law Review  made the statement that he quoted dealing with consumer credit being rationalised in the United Kingdom. I wish that the same could be said of consumer credit law in Australia, where it is not being rationalised and where the States still seem to be proudly going their own proud but different, irrational ways. The honourable gentleman also referred to the growing incidence of standard form contracts. That has been a feature not only of insurance law but also of many other branches of the law for many years. There are advantages in the standard form of contract. The principal comment I would care to make about it is that the standard form of contract detracts from the notion of contract itself. The dominant position of the insurance company that imposes or lays down these conditions is in effect legislating for the relationship between insured and insurer in much the same way as this Parliament might seek to legislate for a certain relationship. That is a growing tendency in the law where under the name contract relationships are governed but where the relationship increasingly has little to do with contracts. 
The honourable gentleman also asked me whether I would consider giving a reference to the Law Reform Commission on the subject of insurance law. The Law Reform Commission is still engaged in preparing its second report, which will deal with criminal procedures as they relate to the jurisdiction or the work of the Australia Police. That report has not yet been received. It is expected shortly, and a decision will have to be made on the second reference. One of the subjects under consideration is defamation law. Australia badly needs uniformity in this area as it does in other areas. I will be happy to keep the honourable member's suggestions in mind. 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following information for answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 3110  (Hansard  1 October 1975, page 1598). 
in reply- I will be very brief because my friend the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  made a few points that perhaps call for some comment. He cited some figures which showed that at the end of June 1975 the amount of subsidy totalled approximately $6m. I think that the books receiving the benefits of the subsidy numbered some 36 million. It is interesting to note that in the short time since 1972-73 the amount of bounty has doubled and the number of books receiving the benefit of the bounty has risen from approximately 30 million- I am looking at the  Hansard  record of the earlier debate- to 36 million today. 
I draw attention to those facts only as an indication of the extent of the priority which the Government gives to assisting the Australian book publishing industry. 
The honourable member also drew attention to certain aspects of publications of the legal profession. He need not have been apologetic. I share his concern. I would point out only that the publications are not those of the legal profession; they are those of the publishers who serve the legal profession. He was discreet enough not to mention the names of the 2 principal publishers although by referring to the  Australian Law Reports  and quoting from some correspondence on the subject he indicated to me at least the name of the publisher. I say this to him- it may be that it will be conveyed back to the publishers- that the Government does view with some concern the duplication of resources that takes place in the legal and accounting publishing industry. All too often we see where a matter of concern which emanates perhaps from the courts or from this Parliament is the subject of publication by competing companies. One company might not be particularly quick in getting its publication into the hands of the professions, its customers. Another company comes along, provides a better service and captures that share of the market. That is the name of the game, but in the course of doing this one gets duplication and overlapping, certainly of law reports. The honourable member mentioned the  Australian Law Reports.  There are many others including the  Commonwealth Law Reports  and in the old days in New South Wales the  New South Wales State Law Reports,  it is then the  New South Wales Weekly Notes  and, of course, the  New South Wales Law Reports.  This all means more paper, more resources and more labour which, in turn, lead to efficiency in the short run but to inefficiencies in the long run which call on the taxpayers to subsidise the difference as we have done under this legislation to the extent of $6m, otherwise the work goes overseas. So I say to the honourable member that the Government welcomes the Opposition's support for once on this measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Trade Practices Act 1974-1975 as a consequence of the Consumer Protection Bill 1975 which was introduced into this House yesterday. The Trade Practices Act represented a great step forward in consumer protection in Australia. It provided, for the first time, laws dealing with this important subject which operated on an Australia-wide basis. The Consumer Protection Bill now before this House takes a further step forward by creating an Australian Consumer Protection Authority and expanding Australian Government activities related to consumer protection. 
The Bill I have just introduced removes from the Trade Practices Act the references to consumer protection. Those provisions are to be reenacted in the Consumer Protection Bill 1975. The Bill also provides transitional arrangements which ensure that no legal gaps are created between the repeals effected by this Bill and their re-enactment. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Bill 1975 now before the House proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. The Bill, which contains 27 Schedules, is necessary to enact tariff changes made by Tariff Proposals introduced into the House between 26 September 1974 and 21 August 1975. The tariff changes arise, in the main, out of decisions by the Government on recommendations made in reports by the Tariff Board, Industries Assistance Commission and Temporary Assistance Authority. The Bill also contains increases in customs duties on potable spirits and manufactured tobacco products which formed part of the Government's Budgetary program. At the time the various tariff proposals implementing these changes were introduced, the origin and nature of each change was indicated. To facilitate honourable member's research for the ensuing debate, I ask leave to incorporate in  Hansard  details of earlier relevant speeches and their whereabouts in  Hansard. 
I propose to move amendment No. 1 circulated in my name. I seek leave to refer also to amendment No. 2, which has been circulated in my name, as the 2 amendments relate to the same matter. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 2) and the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill. 
in reply- In winding up this debate I wish to begin by saying that, for a variety of reasons, the Government cannot possibly accept the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. Before I give those reasons I shall deal briefly with some of the matters which were raised by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  who has just resumed his seat. He quoted  Mr Dowding's  comments. I was in Western Australia not long ago and I went to the Fremantle office. I can assure the honourable member that it is not the sort of office which was described in the article which he read out. It was the most informal, friendly and efficient set-up, thus encouraging people to come in off the street, that I have ever encountered. It gave full confirmation that we have achieved everything we set out to achieve when we began this enterprise. 
However, the principal reason that we cannot accept the amendment is that we do not believe the motives of the Opposition. We have good reason not to believe the motives and the intentions of the Opposition. Everything it has donenot so much what it has said although it has also said things- confirms our belief that its intentions are to dismantle, destroy and bury in some way the Australian Legal Aid Office. It does not want that to be known but it has been indiscreet enough from time to time to let its hand show. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in his speech in the Budget debateperhaps not anticipating that this debate would come on- that if the Opposition were preparing a budget it would do away with the Australian Legal Aid Office. What clearer expression of intention could there be than that? 
Another point which is just as telling as any I could make regarding the Opposition's motives and intentions is that when it was in office it committed approximately $290,000- not much more than a quarter of a million dollars- for legal aid throughout the whole of Australia in 1972-73. That was the measure of the priority which the Opposition gave to meeting the legal needs of people in such need. Our Budget, which is pruned to rock bottom in austere circumstances, provides in excess of $ 16m to meet the needs of people for legal aid services. That is a contrast of the priorities which the Opposition gives to the topic and which we give to the topic. The Opposition 's argument has nothing to do with the structure and form of the Legal Aid Office. When it criticises that and says 'Let us send it to a committee in the Senate or in this place', it really wants to bury the proposal. It has had 4 months -as we have- to consider submissions from the various legal bodies around Australia and to talk and consult with those bodies. 
As the House knows, I will be moving a number of amendments to give effect to some of the suggestions but the Opposition has not put up one amendment except in effect to say: 'Send it to a committee, bury it, destroy it, put it aside'. There is good reason why this legislation should become law. The Opposition knows as well as I do that arising out of Bannister's case, a decision of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, there is a possible defect in the existing law dealing with Federal legal aid, and this Bill is necessary to put it right. Opposition spokesmen have said: 'There is no need for hurry, let us take years'. They know what they are really about and any lawyer who is listening will know what they are about- they would like that legal defect to be developed and exploited. They really want to kill the proposition completely. What is at issue in the debate on this Legal Aid Bill is the question of access to the law by those persons in the Australian community who in the past have been deprived of their right to seek redress where they have suffered certain injury, their right to representation where they are the subject of criminal or civil litigation and their right to their day in court without being deprived of it because they cannot afford it. 
A number of speakers in the debate have drawn attention to the fact that more than 130 000 persons have been into the Australian Legal Aid Office in the short time it has been operating seeking assistance and getting assistance. This has occurred since April 1974 when the first regional office was opened, and there are more than thirty operating now. It is evident to the staff of the Office that the majority of these persons would not have approached a private solicitor because of their financially disadvantaged position, because of their lack of knowledge about the legal profession or because of their apprehension. Lawyers do have an aura about them which puts people off and if we are frank those of us in the profession will recognise that and accept it. The Australian Legal Aid Office tries to overcome it. 
Of those who sought assistance from the Office, 21.5 per cent were pensioners- nearly a quarter- and they do not go into solicitors' offices very often. In addition, 8 per cent were migrants. Both these groups have received far less than their fair share of services in our Australian community. In his survey of the work done by private solicitors for economically disadvantaged persons  Dr Jeffrey  Fitzgerald pointed out that although 16 per cent of persons could be categorised as disadvantaged, the private legal profession spent only a very small percentage of its time working for these people. We know the consequences that flow from that. We know of the similar work done by another academic in Sydney, I think, who drew attention to the fact that the number of convictions of unrepresented people in courts is so much higher than the number of convictions of people who have proper legal representation.  (Quorum formed)  I appreciate the Opposition's desire to reduce my time in that way. 
Solicitors' firms tend to be situated in the centres of urban areas convenient and appropriate to commercial and financial institutions and that is why it is so important to have a salaried legal aid service which can work on the premise of need and can go to the areas and to the people who for so long have been neglected and deprived of the basic right to legal assistance. The effects of this deprivation have already been referred to by other speakers. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  made the point that the statistics of the New South Wales Bureau of Crime Statistics and Research demonstrate that a person who is legally represented has 6 times the likelihood of outright acquittal as an unrepresented person. In addition, there are community interest groups such as consumer organisations and environmental protection bodies which are not able to afford the cost of challenging the actions of corporations and governments but which have been assisted by the Australian Legal Aid Office. They will continue to be assisted if and when this Bill becomes law. The Australian Conservation Foundation said in a Press release dated 29 September 1975: 
The attitude of the Legal Aid Office so far has been to allow socially necessary challenges, such as many of these are, to proceed without the constraint of crippling costs. We applaud the record of the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
Yet this is the office which members of the Opposition want to destroy. This House should be in no doubt as to the attitude of the Opposition to the ALAO. It does not at heart seek revision or amendment of the legislation. It seeks to dismantle the Office. Its shadow Attorney-General, 

 Senator Greenwood, who speaks for the Opposition on these matters has said that outright opposition to this Bill is the logical consequence of the speech on the Budget of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and of the Opposition's feeling towards the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
I challenge any member of the Liberal Party to say that  Senator Greenwood  did not use those words.  Senator Greenwood  added however that the public image of the Liberal Party would suffer to such an extent if this attitude was known and appreciated by the public that the Liberal Party should do everything possible to stop its attitude being known and find another way of presenting its attitude to the Bill. The Opposition has found it. It will send the Bill to a committee, bury it in a committee until people forget about it. The people of Australia will not be deceived by the specious amendment put forward. They will recognise it as an attempt to deprive a large group in our community of access to legal assistance in the many legal problems that can occur in people's day to day lives but which in the past have been without remedy. 
Let me deal with the points raised in the speech of the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  who led for the Opposition. The first point I deal with is the fear the Opposition is said to have that the provision of legal aid services in Australia will lead to a bottomless pit situation and the fear that legal aid costs will become unlimited. This is the case where the legal profession, with great respect to the honourable gentleman- I am a member of the profession as is he- controls legal aid schemes. That is where we get the bottomless pit. We do not get it in a salaried service operating in conjunction with the legal profession. I accept the statement as genuine in the sense that there can be- and is overseas in some cases- bottomless pits, but I am obliged to analyse it more closely. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Greenwood)  has been keen to distort the true nature of legal aid in Australia and to raise unlimited red herrings to cover up the fact that he at least is totally opposed to the concept of the Australian Legal Aid Office and by direct inference the concept of legal aid itself. When I put to him on television not long ago the proposition that this was his view, he did not deny it. I point out to the honourable member for Bennelong that his fears about a bottomless pit are groundless. Money will not and cannot be provided on a bottomless pit basis for legal aid although if the propositions of the Opposition were put forward  they would perhaps produce that result. A subsidy would then be provided to the legal profession. 
Clearly legal aid will have to take its place in the priorities list in a budgetary context. Economies will have to be made when the budgetary situation is such that the legal aid vote is by necessity limited, as it was indeed this year. I point out also to the honourable member that this attempt to use the British parallel to emphasise his concern about costs is also groundless because there legal aid is provided essentially on the basis of the private profession. The British system is run today as is the system that applies in the Australian States. It is a system whereby government provides the money to the legal profession to run the legal aid services on the profession's terms. I agree with the honourable member that when the legal profession seeks to run legal aid schemes without controls or means and needs tests drawn up by a government the bottomless pit situation can develop in this context. 
In this context, I refer also to the suggestion by the honourable member for Bennelong that the Australian Government has not provided clear eligibility criteria for the provision of legal aid services in Australia. Those criteria were provided in a supplemental answer to one of the honourable member's colleagues in the Senate,  Senator Marriott,  not long ago. I seek leave to incorporate guidelines on this matter in  Hansard. 
I thank the House. Those guidelines are applied reasonably and with discretion. The real test is the inability of the applicant to afford the cost of legal assistance in the particular case. This is how it should be. The test should be flexible enough to ensure that people are truly equal before the law yet stringent enough to satisfy the honourable member's fears that people may unjustifiably seek legal aid to cover the cost of an action that they can in fact afford. 
The Bill embodies the following fundamental principles: A salaried legal service is a necessary component of a comprehensive legal aid scheme; the service should be staffed by fully qualified lawyers whose professional independence is guaranteed; the private legal profession is also a necessary component of an adequate schemethe profession should be involved in the general direction of the Office but should not dominate or control it; the Government should have a general policy role in relation to the Office, but not in any way at all related to individual matters; there should be an independent body, the members of which are drawn from all relevant areas of activity in the field to advise the Government on general policy and on grants of financial assistance- that is the Commission, the investigative body about which the honourable member for Stirling talked; there should be as much community involvement in the work of the Office as possible consistent with the professional responsibilities of its lawyers; and there should be co-operation not competition between the Office and other legal aid schemes. 
The Opposition puts forward certain proposals, but there is an air of unreality in the proposals for independent commissions in the 6 States- 6 different commissions, presumably, to run legal aid. These ignore substantial existing services provided by State and Federal governments, law societies and other schemes. It is unlikely, for example, that the Queensland Government would be deterred from continuing to provide legal aid through its Public Curator and Public Defender. A similar position exists in New South Wales where there is a large salaried service operating in the criminal field, through its Public Solicitor and its Public Defender. There are voluntary schemes, in case honourable members opposite did not know about them, such as the Fitzroy Legal Service, which now operate, and no doubt Will continue to do so, outside any recognised formal scheme. The Australian Government is providing assistance under many Federal Acts. The Australian Legal Aid Office has over 400 staff and 33 offices which are open. It is recognised in the Family Law Act under which it is required to provide legal assistance. I remind honourable members of the Federal Acts, rules, etc., which specifically confer obligations on the Australian Legal Aid Office. They are: The Judiciary Act, the High Court Rules, the Defence Act, the Bankruptcy Act, the Re-Establishment and Employment Act, the Interim Forces Benefits Act, the Courts Martial 
Appeals Regulations, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the Trade Practices Act, the Family Law Act, the Social Welfare Ordinance, the Legal Assistance Ordinance and the Racial Discrimination Act. Sometimes when one listens to honourable members opposite one gets the feeling that they had never heard of legal aid until the Legal Aid Bill and the Australian Legal Aid Office were brought into existence by the Whitlam Government. The offices have operated in this field for many years. The Bill is an attempt to rationalise them, but members of the Opposition have never even heard of the offices. 
To hand over Federal legal aid to 6 States and 2 Territories would be completely absurd. It would perpetuate inequalities and parochial priorities. I think the simple point I can make in winding up is this: The people of Australia will not accept what members of the Opposition are trying to do with this Bill through their amendment. The amendment has been seen for what it is a back door attempt to bury the Legal Aid Bill and the Australian Legal Aid Office. No matter how much they protest, it is clear from their amendment, from what their spokesmen have said, from their actions what they are seeking to do. Their Leader, Malcolm Fraser, has said so. Nothing put forward in this debate by them, least of all by their spokesman on legal affairs, has in any way challenged the substance of the legislation. They have not put forward one amendment. All they want to do is send the Bill to a committee, after they have had 4 months to consider it. Just as they cannot deny the need and the justification for Medibank, just as they cannot put forward any alternative workable strategy to our Budget, they have not put forward any serious alternative to this Bill or justification for wanting to bury it by sending it off to a committee, just as they have done with the Securities and Corporation Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. I strongly urge that the House reject the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Howard's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I seek leave to move amendments Nos. 1 to 6 circulated in my name. 
CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
-I move: 
Omit the definition of 'Assistant National Director', substitute the following definition:-  "Assistant Director" means an Assistant Director of the Office; '. 
After the definition of 'Deputy Director', insert the following definition:-  "Director "means the Director of the Office; '. 
Omit the definition of 'external territory'. 
Omit the definition of 'National Director'. 
Omit the definition of 'statutory member of the Office', substitute the following definition:-  "statutory member of the Office" means the Director, an Assistant Director ora Deputy Director; '. 
In sub-clause (S) after 'practitioner', insert ', or as a practitioner, '. 
The amendments are designed simply to take the word 'National' from the titles where it occurs, it being considered that, as it is the Australian Legal Aid Office and the only one of its kind in Australia, there is no need for the additional word. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 7- by leave- taken together. 
I should like to reply briefly to the points raised by Opposition spokesmen. There can be little doubt, I would suggest, to anyone listening that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  indicated quite clearly that he would dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Office. Similarly I put it to Opposition spokesmen- who know the facts- that their shadow Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  said: 'We shall not retain or establish a Commonwealth employed salaried legal aid service'. Let Opposition members deny that. 
-Let them deny it. Honourable members opposite know the truth of the facts. Did I not put it to  Senator Greenwood  on a television interview and did he not deny that he had used words along those lines? Did he not also say that the risk of opposing the Bill outright, which nevertheless is the logical consequence of the arguments raised, is that the Opposition would be castigated for opposing legal aid? Did he not go on to indicate that a better and more acceptable way of opposing the legislation must be found to placate public opinion? There is definitely silence on the Opposition side now. 
It is very revealing that the Opposition spokesmen on the subject are now silent. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) (f) omit 'voluntary '. 
In sub-clause (1 ) (g) omit 'guidance'. 
I think the amendments speak for themselves. The word 'voluntary' is ambiguous and may exclude from the use of the premises of the Office persons employed by non-profit legal aid schemes, such as the Detroit scheme, and matters of that sort. So it is thought desirable to make the change. The omission of the word 'guidance' as is proposed by the other amendment simply brings about compliance with the dimensions of the Family Law Act. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (3) before 'Director' omit 'National. 
In sub-clause (3) before 'Directors' omit 'National '. 
Those amendments are consistent with those moved earlier and they simply seek to delete the word 'National' which seems to be unnecessary. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
I move: 
At the end of sub-clause (2), add 'with respect to matters of policy'. 
The purpose of adding the words 'with respect to matters of policy ' is to make it clear that we wish to ensure the independence of the Office. The amendment makes it clear that the function of the Board of Management will be to initiate and determine the policy to be followed by the Office. 
I would have thought that the Government's policy was reasonably clear. It begins with the proposition that the Office, employing solicitors and bringing into being a solicitor and client relationship between the solicitor or the lawyer employed in the Office and client, with complete independence, should at the same time, consistent with proper democratic principles, I would have thought, be accountable ultimately to the Parliament. The Office can be accountable to the Parliament only through a Minister, and it seems reasonable that the Minister should be the Attorney-General, it being a matter related to the law. If there were no policy accountability, in the ultimate it would be a complete abdication for which the Government could be held responsible. The device used, the machinery used, the system used in the 2 clauses that have been referred to is one borrowed from many other institutions which have existed for many years and which were the creatures of Liberal-Country Party governments in fact. One that comes specifically to my mind in which this sort of aim is intended is the National Capital Development Commission which is located in this very city of Canberra. I may be wrong, but I think the Reserve Bank of Australia is another one. There are many others. 
It is desired to give the National Capital Development Commission complete independence in relation to the building, construction and planning of the city of Canberra. That body has all the integrity that comes from being independent. But because government provides the money, and governments have to take the blame when things go wrong, there has to be some policy relationship between a body that is independent on practical day to day matters and the ultimate question of policy. We accept that device, that machine, that system of resolving a dispute that honourable members opposite or someone on their behalf evolved many years ago and we think it is appropriate in this situation as well. I envisage that the Attorney-General would hardly ever come into a matter- in fact we have taken out the word 'matter'. One cannot abdicate or hand over the expenditure of taxpayers' money to a board to let it set its priorities, which might be inconsistent with the priorities generally, from a policy point of view, of the government of the day. For example, if the board were given complete independence it might want to locate all the offices in, say - 
I do not know about Wodonga. Without giving offence to certain groups of people, I was about to refer to what some people call the silvertail suburbs. The Legal Aid Office is intended to meet need. It is intended to be in areas principally where pensioners, migrants and low income earners are found. Obviously, if a board with complete independence located it somewhere else, the Government would rightly be criticised. The Government might want to say: 'Hold on as a matter of policy. Some kind of different guidelines should be adopted, not in specific matters but, say, in the matter of location.' It might be appropriate, as the taxpayers' money is being spent and as it is not a bottomless pit, for guidelines on contribution tests to be discussed and laid before the Parliament. They would have to be laid before the Parliament because the board is required to be party to reports to the Parliament where they can be debated and discussed as we are discussing this matter here and now. One cannot abdicate responsibility. That is where the Government differs from its opponents in relation to the fundamental issue. They want to hand legal aid over to the profession; the Government does not. 
-No, we do not. It would become a subsidy for the legal profession. It would become a subsidy for lawyers as it has become in large measure in England. No responsible government can allow taxpayers' money to subsidise the legal profession. I am a member of the legal profession and I am proud of it, but it would be an abdication of responsibility to set up a board, give it to some lawyers and say: 'Here are $Xm every year. Spend it as you like. ' I have read out and put to my friends on the opposite side what their leader on this subject in the Senate has said about dismantling the salaried service. I do not for one moment suggest that the salaried service should be the only one. It should not. The private profession must continue and must flourish. The independence of the profession is basic. But it cannot be doubted, and it has been the experience of salaried services overseas, particularly in Canada, that three times more cases- for example, undefended divorcescan be handled by the salaried service than by farming them out to the legal profession. 
Let us examine the logic of that statement. In the future if the government of the day- it may be a Liberal-National Country Party Government or an Australian Labor Party Government, I do not know- says, in the overall budgetary context, 'We can afford $20m for legal aid this year' and it is handed over to the private profession where it would be used in the normal way- solicitors briefing counsel and so on- the money would go one-third of the way that it would go if it were spent the other way. A proper balance has to be achieved. I suggest to honourable members that it is all very well to be proud to belong to the legal profession, but the clientsthe people whom the legal profession is supposed to serve- do not always see it that way. The legal profession is not the most popular of professions, I submit. 
I suggest that you are. It is not the most popular of professions. Representatives of certain lawyer groups have persuaded Opposition members in the party room to take the stand they have taken in order to dismantle the ALAO and to fund the law society schemes with whatever limited funds they could find. This Government has funded the law society schemes to a far greater extent than the previous Government did. The record proves that. The best it ever came up with was $290,000 back in 1972. We have spent sixty times that amount.  (Quorum formed) 
I move: 
.  In sub-clause ( 1 )( b ), omit' National '. 
In sub-clause (2), omit 'National '. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 12 agreed to. 
Clause 13. 
In the event of a difference of opinion between the Attorney-General and the Board as to the policy to be followed by the office in relation to any matter, the AttorneyGeneral and the Board shall endeavour to reach agreement. 
If the Attorney-General and the Board are unable to reach agreement, the GovernorGeneral may, by order, determine the policy to be followed by the Board in relation to that matter. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2), omitin relation to any matter'. 
Omit sub-clause (3), substitute the following sub-clause: 
If the Attorney-General and the Board are unable to reach agreement as to the policy to be followed by the Board, the GovernorGeneral may, by order, determine the policy to be followed by the Board.'. 
I do not think I need add anything further to what I said in relation to one of the clauses dealt with earlier. 
-With the leave of the Committee, I move: 
. In subclause ( 1 ) (c) before ' private ', insert ' the Office, ' 
In subclause ( I ) ( f) omit ' and ' 
After paragraph ( f) of sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following paragraph:- (fa) to advise the Attorney-General as to the educational programs that would be most effective in promoting an understanding by the public, or by sections of the public who have special needs in this respect, of their rights, powers, privileges and duties under the laws of Australia and of the Territories; and '. 
With regard to the first amendment, it is considered desirable to make it clear that the Commission may assist and report to the AttorneyGeneral of the day on the roles of all bodies, including the Australian Legal Aid Office, interested in the provision of legal services. The second amendment is, as it appears, only a formal drafting amendment consequential upon the addition of the new subclause 1 (fa). The final amendment inserts a new paragraph which gives the Commission, within its general research and advice functions, a role in the vital field of public education and is cognate to that providing for a public education role for the Office. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (1), substitute the following subclauses: 
The Commission shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June in each year, prepare and furnish to the AttorneyGeneral a report of the operations of the Commission during that year. ( 1 A) In addition to reports referred to in sub-section ( 1 ), the Commission shall prepare and furnish to the AttorneyGeneral such reports as the Attorney-General requires and may, from time to time, prepare and furnish to the 
Attorney-General such other reports as the Commission thinks fit.'. 
The proposed new sub-clauses add to the duty in the Commission to report when the AttorneyGeneral so requires a duty to report annually and provide that the Commission may report from time to time as it thinks appropriate. The proposed new sub-clauses give the Commission more power. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
I thank you for the suggestion,  Mr Chairman,  and I thank my colleagues for the co-operation. I move: 
In clauses 20 to 25 omit 'National' (wherever occurring). 
The amendments are simply to delete the word National' as has been done before. 
I accept what the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has said about the practising certificate requirement. There is strong feeling about it in the legal profession. That is understandable. I do not know whether he has had the chance to read the judgments in Bannister's case but he will find expressed there a point of view by some of the judges of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory which suggests that it is inconsistent that a practising certificate be required with a salaried service. It is the policy in the Australian Legal Aid Office to have people who have only practising certificates. It is my understanding that all but perhaps one or two, or a few more, have practising certificates at the moment. It is certainly firm policy. The local Australian Capital Territory ordinance- the honourable gentleman may be familiar with it- followed the judgment in the Bannister case. I should make it clear that the Government does not accept the law as stated in Bannister's case. An appeal has been lodged. It exposes an area of uncertain law. In the case of the Australian Capital Territory ordinance, the solution adopted was to make it a requirement that the officers of the Office have the same qualifications as they would be required to have were they coming up for a practising certificate from the Australian Capital Territory Law Society. That seemed to meet the requirements of the profession in Canberra. A similar approach has been adopted in the Bill. There are other problems apart from the expressions of opinion in Bannister's case. The fact is that the requirements of the 6 States are not the same. It was thought that this was the best way of solving the problem. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clauses 20 to 25, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 26. 
In practising as a solicitor or performing any of the functions of a solicitor in pursuance of this section- 
a statutory member of the Office has all the rights and privileges of a solicitor; and 
a member of the staff of the Office has all the rights and privileges of a solicitor employed by a person practising as a solicitor on his own account. 
This section applies in relation to a person acting in the office of a statutory member of the Office in like manner as it applies in relation to the statutory member of the Office concerned. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (6) (a) after 'solicitor', insert 'practising on his own account '. 
After sub-clause ( 8 ), insert the following sub-clauses: (8a) This section applies in relation to a member of the staff of the Office who is in charge of a local office established by the Office in like manner as it applies in relation to a statutory member of the Office. (8b) A certificate given by a statutory member of the Office stating that the Office has established a local office in a locality specified in the certificate and that a person specified in the certificate is a member of the staff of the Office and is in charge of that local office is  prima facie  evidence of the matters certified. (8c) A document purporting to be a certificate given under sub-section (8B) shall, unless the contrary is established, be deemed to be such a certificate and to have been duly given.'. 
The first amendment makes it clear that a statutory member- that is, the Director, assistant director and deputy director of the Australian Legal Aid Office- when acting as a solicitor does so as a principal. In other words, he must be admitted as a solicitor in the particular jurisdiction. That is referred to in clause 26 (4). As a matter of policy, he will be required to hold a practising certificate under the relevant State or Territory legislation. The second amendment seeks to insert 3 new sub-clauses. They give lawyers of the Office who are in charge of local offices the same rights to practise as a solicitor who is a principal in a firm. As a matter of policy, all such lawyers will hold practising certificates under the relevant State or Territory legislation. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) omit 'National '. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 29. 
In the making of a decision whether it is reasonable in all the circumstances to provide legal assistance to a person, regard shall be had to all relevant matters, including- 
the nature and extent of any benefit that may accrue to the person from the provision of the assistance or of any detriment that the person may suffer if the assistance is not provided; and 
in the case of assistance in relation to a proceedingthe likelihood of the proceeding terminating in a manner favourable to the person. 
The regulations may authorize the provision of legal assistance under this Act in such cases as are specified in, or ascertained in accordance with, the regulations, being cases involving- 
the institution of proceedings for the purpose of obtaining a decision by a court where it is in the public interest to obtain such a decision; or 
the institution of proceedings relating to the protection, maintenance and preservation of the natural or cultural environment of Australia (including those places, being components of that environment, that  have aesthetic, historic, scientific or social significance or other significance or other special value for future generations as well as for the community). 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3), omit paragraph (a) of sub-section ( 1 ), substitute the following paragraph: 
the nature and extent of any benefit that may accrue to the person, to the community or to any section of the community from the provision of the assistance or of any detriment that may be suffered by the person, by the community or by any section of the  community  if the assistance is not provided; and '. 
Omit sub-clause (4), substitute the following sub-clause: 
In a case involving- 
a question  of public  importance; or 
the protection, maintenance or preservation of the natural or cultural environment of Australia (including any place, being a component of that environment, that has aesthetic, historic, scientific or social significance or other special value for future generations as well as for the community) if the provision of legal assistance under this Act to a person is not authorised by the preceding sub-sections of this section, legal assistance may nevertheless be provided to the person under this Act in such circumstances as are specified in, or ascertained in accordance with, the regulations. '. 
At the end of the clause, add the following sub-clause: 
Legal assistance shall not be provided under this Act to a person in or in connexion with an application made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal under sub-section 36(3).'. 
The first amendment enables consideration to be given to the benefit to the community that might result from professional legal assistance to a particular applicant as well as the benefit to the applicant himself. Any disadvantage to the community which might arise out of the provision of assistance to an individual is irrelevant. The purpose of the second amendment is to make it clear in a case involving a question of public importance or the preservation of the national environment that where the provision of legal assistance is not otherwise authorised- under the Act legal aid may be provided if the special criteria to be prescribed by the regulations are satisfied. Legal assistance still may be granted in a . case that satisfies the requirements of sub-clauses ( 1 ), (2) and (3) of clause 29 although it raises questions of public importance or the national environment. In respect of the third amendment it seemed to the Government that it would not be appropriate for the Office to decide upon the provision of legal assistance for appeals against its decisions. Provision is made in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act to enable the Attorney-General in appropriate cases to make arrangements for assistance to be provided if necessary. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2) omit 'National'. 
The amendment once again is related to the word 'National'. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 32 (Arranging for services of private legal practitioners). 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (2), substitute the following subclauses: 
Where an amount is recovered by a legally assisted person (whether in a proceeding or by virtue of a settlement or compromise) in respect of the matter in which the legal assistance is given, the person is liable to pay to the Office so much of that amount as the Office determines but the amount so determined shall not exceed the amount by which the sum of- 
the ordinary professional costs (including solicitor and client costs) of the legal services provided to the person in the proceeding or matter in respect of which legal assistance was provided; and 
any disbursements (including barristers' fees) and out-of-pocket expenses incurred in or in connexion with the provision of those services, exceeds any amount, or the sum of any amounts, paid by the person to the Office under section 3 1 in relation to the legal assistance. 
The amount that a person is liable to pay to the Office under sub-section (2) is recoverable by the Office by action in a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due and payable to the Office.'. 
The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that a successful assisted person who recovers a verdict can be required to pay to the Office the full professional costs of disbursement of his case. He should not make a profit from the grant of legal assistance. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 34. 
A request under sub-section ( 1 ) shall be decided by an appropriate statutory member of the Office in accordance with arrangements made or approved by the National Director. 

 Mr ENDERBY (Canberra)AttorneyGeneral) (9.57)- I move: 
In sub-clause (2), omit 'National'. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), omit 'communicate the decision to any person affected by the decision', and substitute ', within 14 days after the decision is made, communicate the decision to the person who applied for the legal assistance or for the payment, as the case may be'. 
An applicant for legal assistance or payment of costs under clause 34 must be notified of the decision on his application within 1 4 days of the decision. Under this amendment, notification is to be given only to the applicant. This should be a matter of confidence and privacy between the office and the applicant. The office must inform the applicant of his rights. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 36. 
( 1 ) Where a decision has been made- 
refusing to provide legal assistance under this Act; 
refusing to provide legal assistance under this Act of the nature, or to the extent, applied for, 
imposing a condition on the provision of legal assistance under this Act or varying adversely to a legally assisted person a condition so imposed; 
terminating the provision of legal assistance under this Act; or 
refusing to pay the whole or a part of any amount that the Office has been requested to pay under section 34, a person affected by the decision may, by notice in writing to the Office, request that the decision be reconsidered. 
Where a notice requesting that a decision be reconsidered is received by the Office, the decision shall be reconsidered- 
in a case to which paragraph (1) (a), (b), (c) or (d) applies- by an appropriate member of the Office; or 
in a case to which paragraph ( 1 ) (e) applies- by an appropriate statutory member of the Office, in accordance with arrangements made or approved by the National Director and may either be confirmed or be varied. 

 Mr CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)-May I suggest that the Committee give the AttorneyGeneral leave to move all 3 circulated amendments together. There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
In sub clause (1), omit 'a person affected by the decision', substitute 'the person who applied for the legal assistance or for the payment'. 
In sub clause (2), omit 'National'. 
Omit sub-clause (3), substitute the following subclause: 
Where a decision is confirmed or varied following a reconsideration of the decision under sub-section (2), the person who requested the reconsideration may make an application to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of the decision.'. 
The first amendment is consequential upon that proposed in sub-clause (1) of clause 35 providing for the notification of decisions to applicants only. The second amendment omits the word National' from the title which has been a consequence of many of the amendments. Amendment number 45 is a drafting amendment clarifying the class of persons who may seek a review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 37 to 39- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 40. 
1 ) A member of the Office who is required in accordance with arrangements referred to in sub-section 28 ( 1 ) to decide an application for legal assistance under this Act may, if he thinks it desirable to do so, refer the application to an appropriate consultative committee for a recommendation as to- 
whether, having regard to the provisions of this Act, the application should be granted or refused; 
if the committee recommends that the application should be granted- whether, having regard to the provisions of sub-section 31 (2), the provision of the assistance should be without charge or be subject to either or both of the conditions referred to in subsection 31 (l);and 
if the committee recommends that the provision of the assistance should be subject to a condition that the legally assisted person pay to the Office a contribution towards the cost to the Office of providing the assistance-the amount of the contribution that the person should pay. 
A statutory member of the Office who is required in accordance with arrangements referred to in sub-section 34 (2) to decide a request made under sub-section 34 ( 1 ) may, if he thinks it desirable to do so, refer the request to an appropriate general consultative committee for a recommendation as to the decision that, having regard to the requirements of sub-sections 34 (3) and (4), should be made in respect of the request. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause:- 
Where the Office has established a local office, the Office shall encourage persons living, or carrying on a business, profession or trade, in the locality where the office is established to form a committee to serve as a basis for the establishment by the Attorney-General of a local consultative committee in that locality. '. 
Amendment number 46 arises out of Part VII of the Bill which deals with consultative committees which it is hoped will come into being to involve the work of the Office and the Office itself more closely with the community it serves. The present clause involves consultative committees in the consideration of particular cases with a consequential disclosure of confidential information about applicants. The basic function of these committees is to provide a focal point for cooperation between the community and the local office- co-operation that will enable the office to ascertain more readily and respond more appropriately to community needs. The committee will therefore comprise a significant proportion of lay people drawn from the community of which the applicant himself could be a member. We believe that it is essential to maintain the traditional relationship of solicitor and client between lawyers of the office and their clients. The lawyers should not be placed in the position of disclosing confidential information. The provisions of the clause are therefore inappropriate in their present form. That is what has led to the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
-No, I do not so confirm. I never said such a thing. The Press statement I put out was completely distorted in the  Sydney Morning Herald  and was put right by me in a letter to the editor published by the  Sydney Morning Herald  a day or two afterwards. I stress this point: I cannot be responsible for distorted reports by the  Sydney Morning Herald.  If anyone wants to see the Press statement I put out I shall make it available. But I should like to say that when one talks about advice being given to the Governor-General and the proprieties of the thing, one deplores the actions of certain members of the Opposition in making Press statements on the subject and sending them to the Governor-General. 
-The report is still being considered, and for good reason. The honourable gentleman would be the first to know that the provisions of the Royal Commission Act make certain evidence that was put before that commission inadmissible in other proceedings. That places enormous difficulty in the way of making an assessment on whether or not there is admissible evidence. It seems likely at this stage that there is no admissible evidence that would justify criminal proceedings. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to this question appeared in House of Representatives  Hansard  of 9 September 1975 at page 1 184. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
No. 
1 refer the honourable member to part (3) of the answer given by the Prime Minister on 1 3 May 1 975 to question No. 2243: see  Hansard,  page 2198. (I am pleased to note that the issue referred to by the question has since been resolved by the enactment of the  Commonwealth Electoral Act1973). 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows:  (1)and (2) Yes. 
No. 
I refer the honourable member to part (3) of the answer given by the Prime Minister on 1 3 May 1 975 to question No. 2243: see  Hansard,  page 2 1 98. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Representations were received from a subsidiary of Amatil, namely Associated Products &amp; Distribution Pty Limited, and from Marrickville Holdings Limited. (2)I informed the Commission on 13 March 1975, pursuant to paragraph 90 (9) (b) of the Trade Practices Act 1974, that the Australian Government considered that there were special considerations relating to the take-over that made it desirable in the interests of national economic policy that an authorisation be granted in respect of the acquisition. 
and (4) Yes.  Mr Walsh  requested that I receive representations. 
The Trade Practices Commission made a determination to that effect, but, on the advice of the Interdepartmental Committee on Foreign Take-overs, the Government had already concluded that the take-over would not be against the national interest. As the take-over was within the announced measures for the control of foreign take-overs, I considered that the appropriate course was to ensure that it was dealt with in the same way as all other foreign takeoversnotwithstanding that the Companies ( Foreign Takeovers) Act was not applicable. 
-A number of matters were dealt with in the honourable gentleman's question.  Mr Gruzman  is well known to those of us who have practised at the New South Wales Bar. He is principally known as a controversial lawyer in the criminal field. The honourable gentleman refers in his question to certain work that  Mr Gruzman  may have done for the Bartons. I understand that is correct. He has acted as a legal adviser to the Bartons for some time. I also understand that he acts in a similar capacity for the New South Wales Branch of the Liberal Party. The exact nature of  Mr Gruzman's  relationship with the Barton empire was one of the matters investigated by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission. Until the findings of the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission are made available for public scrutiny,  Mr Gruzman's  involvement will remain unknown and will remain a mystery. 
The best answer that I think can be given to the honourable gentleman's question about the capacity of  Mr Gruzman  to express the opinion that he expressed on the constitutional crisis was delivered in the  Australian  newspaper by Professor Blackshield who gave that answer in a very learned article published in the  Australian  newspaper this morning, I think, and who on Sunday gave a talk in the capacity of  Guest of Honour  for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. That talk was broadcast some time later on Sunday evening. It may have been heard by many honourable members. Certainly in the newspaper article, Professor Blackshield poured scorn on the opinions expressed by  Mr Gruzman.  Professor Blackshield went on to offer the opinion that a Senate refusing Supply or threatening to refuse Supply in these circumstances would be acting unconstitutionally. 
It is of interest that in the last few days we have seen other correspondence on the same subject from eminent Australian jurists, eminent Australian academics and eminent Australian constitutional lawyers. The most recent contribution to the subject was that from  Sir Richard  Eggleston, one of the most respected and learned lawyers on the subject in Australia. He is a prominent expresident of the Trade Practices Tribunal, a member of the Industrial Court and a judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. He is a gentleman who in the past was often talked about as having the capacity to go on to the High Court of Australia. He expressed the opinion- and it would have been seen by many honourable members- that, no matter what words one uses, to refuse Supply in the Senate would be illegal as section 53 of the Constitution does not give that power. That seems to have been the opinion expressed by  Sir Richard  Eggleston in a letter written to the Melbourne  Age  in the last two or three days. It is a view I have heard expressed by many other eminent jurists and judges. 
I will go beyond that and say this: If one looks at the writings on the subject by eminent and respectable jurists and respectable lawyers and academics, there is almost near unanimity that for the Senate to oppose Supply in these circumstances is if not illegal certainly unconstitutional. I use that word in its wide but proper sense. 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (4) See the answer provided by the Minister representing the Minister for Media on 4 December 1974 (Hansard, page 4590). 
-The honourable gentleman directs attention to the effects of the continued refusal of the Liberal and National Country Parties in the Senate to pass the Budget. There can be no doubt that if that refusal continues it will have a serious and disruptive impact on the administration of justice throughout Australia. The money that is in Treasury, that in the normal course of events, on the passing of Supply, would be paid out is used to pay witnesses' expenses in courts functioning throughout Australia all the time. It is used to pay fees for barristers; it is used to pay the costs associated with the sittings of royal commissions and inquiries; it is used to pay the salaries of judges and the people who work with judges during the sitting of courts that go on circuit; and it is used to finance the reporting of court proceedings. All these are basic elements in the administration of justice. 
If the refusal continues and persists, if it is taken much longer to the extreme, there can be no doubt that it will have a serious and disruptive impact on the administration of justice in Australia. It would mean- and any person familiar with the working of the system of justice would know- that prosecutions could not be launched, that government departments, government agencies, if sued, could not be represented in the courts of Australia. All in all, it would have a very serious consequence for the whole administration of justice. Here in the Australia Capital Territory it could mean for example, in the short run, the early discontinuance of the system of night courts which provide such a ready and amenable system of justice, bringing justice to the people who need it. It would mean a cessation of the funds that go to supply legal aid throughout Australia- for the Law Society schemes as well as for the Australian Legal Aid Office. It would curtail drastically the operations of the Australian Law Reform Commission. It would contain to a very serious degree the operation of the Institute of Criminology. Honourable members will recall the enactment on a free vote on the Family Law Bill that went through this Parliament a little while ago. It would certainly seriously impinge on the operation of that Act and the coming into being of the Family Court of Australia. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to amend the Family Law Act 1975 and the Remuneration and Allowances Act 1 973- 1 975 to provide for increases in the salaries and allowances of judges of the Family Court of Australia. The Family Court of Australia is created by the Family Law Act 1975, which was passed by the Parliament earlier this year. The Act has been proclaimed to come into operation on 5 January 1976, at which date the Court will also begin operations. 
The rates of salaries and allowances forjudges of the Family Court, which are prescribed by the Act in accordance with constitutional requirements, have fallen behind the rates for judges of Federal courts of comparable status. This occurred largely because the Family Law Bill occupied so much of the time of both Houses before it was finally passed. Accordingly, a recommendation has been obtained from the Remuneration Tribunal as to the appropriate increases in the salaries, and these have been adopted in this Bill. As honourable members will see in the Schedule to the Bill, the rates recommended for the Chief Judge and for Senior Judges of the Family Court are equivalent to the rates for the Chief Judge and Judges respectively of the Australian Industrial Court. The salaries of other judges of the Family Court have been increased proportionately. 
The Bill provides for the new rates of salary and allowances to be fixed in the Remuneration and Allowances Act, along with the rates of salary and allowances of other Federal judges. Thus, when future increases in these rates come to be made, it will be necessary to amend only one Act of Parliament. It is most important that this Bill be passed by Parliament before the end of the current sittings. In the interests of the wellbeing of the Family Court, the status, and therefore the salaries, of judges of the Court must be made such as to attract persons of a high calibre to the Bench of the Court. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the amalgamation of the Commonwealth Police, the police forces of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory and certain sections of the Department of Police and Customs into a single law enforcement body- the Australia Police. Honourable members will be interested in the origins of the Bill. A comprehensive study undertaken in 1973 revealed that the operations of the existing agencies were subject to a number of short-comings. 
These included: a lack of co-ordination of enforcement effort in areas of common interest; duplication of effort by officers from the various agencies; wastefulness and inefficiency arising from the maintenance of separate information and intelligence systems; varying standards of training and recruitment for the various agencies; lack of highly trained capacity to deal with white collar crime; the need to refer the investigation of some Federal offences to State police agencies; and wastefulness deriving from the maintenance of separate pools of equipment and the inability to justify separate use of computer facilities. 
Based on the knowledge gained through the studies that had been undertaken, including a close examination of overseas national law enforcement agencies, it became obvious that the wastefulness and inefficiencies deriving from the multiplicity of Federal law enforcement agencies in Australia could best be overcome by the integration of those agencies. Consequently the Department of Police and Customs was created on 27 March this year. The Department consists of 3 wings: The Australia Police; the Bureau of Customs; and a Joint Services wing. The Joint Services wing provides the fulcrum for increased efficiency and economy of operations. In addition to the usual management services it will be responsible for training, computer services, communications, transport, planning, research, operational records and such services. 
It is proposed to establish a National Police College in Bathurst, New South Wales, with courses designed to cater for all levels of police from recruit training to that appropriate for the higher levels of management. Moreover there will be scope for specialised training including that necessary to provide a higher level of expertise to detect white collar crime. The national and international training courses at present provided for State and overseas police will be expanded. On the basis of existing Customs facilities, computer services currently under development include police computer systems with instant access to data by means of visual display units located throughout Australia. These services, whether maintained manually or by computer, are a necessary part of any police force and are being developed at the national level within the Australia Police. The Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has recently discussed with State Police Ministers the possibility of developing a national information unit based on these systems. A joint FederalState feasibility study is currently being undertaken. The unit will have links with Interpol and other international agencies. I do not think I need to spell out the kind of efficiency and savings this operation will achieve for the nation as a whole. 
I should like to draw the attention of honourable members to another important feature in the development of this Bill. On 16 May 1975 I referred to the Law Reform Commission for inquiry and report the question of the appropriate legislative means of safeguarding individual rights and liberties in relation to the law enforcement process by the Australia Police. The Law Reform Commission has divided its momentous task into 2 reports. The first, relating to a system for investigations of complaints against members of the Australia Police, was tabled in this House on 2 September 1975. It is the Commission's first report following its establishment under the Law Reform Commission Act 1973 and I am sure that all who have read it will join with me in characterising it as a seminal document in the development of police integrity and public confidence in the police in Australia. It is a report of the highest quality and the Government has, without hesitation, incorporated its recommendations in the Bill. The Commission's second report is devoted to the difficult issue of the proper balance between police powers which respect the rights of the individual on the one hand and the community's need for practical and effective law enforcement on the other. The report is currently being printed and I expect to table it in this House next week. Honourable members will then have before them the complete picture in relation to the Australia Police when debate on the Bill is resumed. 
I turn now to the Bill itself. I would like to outline some of the central features. Part I contains the usual formal provisions and in addition preserves existing police powers in Federal laws and territorial ordinances. This is an interim measure pending the introduction of legislation arising out of the Government's consideration of the forthcoming second report of the Law Reform Commission. Part II provides for the establishment and administration of the Australia Police. It creates offices of Chief Commissioner and Commissioner for the Australian Capital Territory and Commissioners for the Northern Territory. It provides that the Regional Commissioners will be operationally autonomous in relation to the communities which they serve. It also provides a clear statement of ministerial responsibility for the police. Part III amplifies the preservation of police powers referred to in Part I. 
Part IV relates to appointments and terms and conditions of service including such matters as promotion, resignation and retirement. It also provides for the making of regulations in relation to police discipline. In accordance with the recommendation of the Law Reform Commission I will bring these regulations before the House as soon as possible so that they may be considered in concert with the Bill. Pans V and VI establish the system of dealing with complaints against the police recommended by the Law Reform Commission. Central features are the provision of an oversighting role for the Ombudsman, the establishment of an Internal Discipline Section responsible to the Chief Commissioner to investigate complaints and the creation of an Australia Police Tribunal to hear disciplinary charges and appeals against disciplinary action taken by the Chief Commissioner or Regional Commissioners. Part VII is also based on recommendations by the Law Reform Commission in relation to torts committed by police officers. It provides for Australia to assume vicarious liability for the actions of an officer taken in the course of his duties. However, it also provides that Australia may take proceedings to recover contribution from the police officer. Part VIII provides transitional provisions in relation to the appointment and preservation of rights of police officers automatically transferred to the Australia Police. Part IX deals with miscellaneous matters but of particular interest to honourable members will be clause 87, which establishes police councils for the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. These councils will provide a forum to stimulate the responsiveness of the regional units to local community needs and aspirations. I commend the Bill to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) The question calls for an expression of opinion on the adequacy of the present provisions of the law regulating the operation of trustee companies. It is only in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory that the Australian Government is responsible for the administration of this law. The State Governments are responsible for the administration of the law regulating the operations of trustee companies within the boundaries of the States. 
Broadly speaking, in both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory a trustee company is subject to the same obligations as an individual executor or trustee. In each Territory, the Supreme Court may exercise the same powers over a trustee company as it may exercise over an individual executor or trustee. 
I have not had any specific instances of dilatory action by a trustee company in either the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory brought to my attention. If the honourable member has any particular case in mind, I will certainly ask my Department to investigate it. 
Education in Rural Areas  (Question No. 2914) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I accept the great need for an Australian Legal Aid Office in the areas named but 1 regret 1 am unable to indicate a firm date on which these offices will commence business. 
The program for opening of regional offices is now being reviewed having regard to availability of funds and staff ceilings arising out of budgetary considerations. This could affect the opening of the offices at Whyalla and Port Pirie and other offices in this financial year. 
The Minister for Police and Customs has provided the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The relevant statistics have been forwarded direct to the honourable member. 
4 September 1973. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 3304 (House of Representatives Hansard, 15 October 1975,page2188). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) bankruptcies: In order to provide a proper basis of comparison figures are shown for the financial years 1 965-66 to 1974-75 inclusive. Separate figures for 'small businesses' are not kept, and separate figures for businesses (a person engaged in a business, trade or profession whether as an employer or on his own account) have only been kept since 1972-73. Bearing in mind that the table relates to individuals, the businesses involved can be assumed to be mostly small ones. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) I do not propose to elaborate the grounds for my view, since to do so would re-open matters of controversy between Australia and France. 
In answer to this question I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 3110. 
